■ -w ....■■■WWIWIH.r>"Tr r fi/dsr ai)V1':htis::mknts. The most delicious. The most nourishing1. The most economical. van It contains all the elements of a perfect food in an easily digestible form. 22101441784Med K9398 ADVERTISE!! EX m y. ..v^i waicR should be made of AS FOLLOWS:— Directions.—Mix one dessertspoonful of Robinson’s Paunt Barley with a wine- glassful of cold water into a smooth paste. Pour ihis into a stew pan containing one quart of boiling water, and stir over the the for five minutes. Flavour with lemon, Cinnamon or sugar, according to taste, and allow the mixture to cool. For Invalids requiring nutriment a larger quantity of Barley should be used. ALSO THE BEST SOUP THICKENER. GRUEL SHOULD BE MADE OF AS FOLLOWS GRUEL. - lake of the Patent Crio.it' one tablespoonful, mix with a wine-glassful ot cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stew-pan con- taining nearly a pint of boiling water, or milk, stir the gruel on the tire (whila it Doits) for ten minutes; pour it into a basin, add a pin h of salt and a little butter, or if more agreeable, some sugar, and a small quantity of spirits. Note.—When Gruel, is made fur an Invalid, butter had best be omitted. KEEN, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., LONDON, Makers of KEEN’S MUSTARD.ADVERTISEMENTS. IV KASHER SOAP, MADE AT Hbraham’s Vineyard, Jerusalem, Of Pure Olive Oil and Alkali grown in the Jordan Valley. Excellent for Delicate Skin, Children, and Relief of Eczema. • May be had from Secretary— SOCIETY FOR RELIEF OF PERSECUTED JEWS, 41, Parliament Street, S.W. Price, post free, 3s. 6d. per dozen tablets, or 10s. per 3 dozen tablets. n Gold Medals awarded in competition with other Foods. TO BE HAD AT GROCERS AMD STORES In i-lto. and 1 lb. Packets, and CHEMISTS in )/- Tins. FLORADOR Is made in Three Sizes of Grains. Large Grained for Porridge, Ome- lettes, Soups, &c. Medium Grained for Baked or Boiled Puddings, &c. Fine Grained for Blancmange, Cakes, Creams, Infants' P'ood, &c. Recipes on Packets. % the GREAT WHEAT FOOD Tile “EPICIIHK” says s—“ FLORADOR is good as a food in its simplest forms of preparation, and it admits of so many possible variations in cooking that there are few articles of the kind so useful on emergencies to cook or housewife.” The “ LAXCRT ” say s This preparation is excellent." The Florador Food Co., 90, WASHINGTON STREET, GLASGOW. London Depot: COWAN & CO., 29 and 30, College Street, E.C.V ADVERTISEMENTS. BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER Makes a perfect high-class Custard at a minimum cost and trouble. Used by all the leading Diplomees of the South Kensington School of Cookery. Invaluable also for a variety of Sweet Dishes, recipes for which accom- pany each Packet. No Eggs! No Risk! No Trouble! USE ALSO Bird’s Bird’s Bird’s Bird’s Blanc=Mange Powder Crystal Jelly Powder Concentrated Egg=Powder Baking Powder.VI ADV ERTISEMENTS. Palestine Wines and Cognac. hds Sj? ntrr By Permission of the Ecclesiastical Authorities. GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900, For Purity and Excellence of Quality. Per Doz. No. 1. Vin de Rischon le Zion, Red. Produced from Bordeaux Vines, transplanted to Palestine ... 18s. No. 2. Vin de Rischon le Zion, Red. From Chateau Lafite Vines 24s. No. 3. Vin de Rischon le Zion, White. A splendid White Wine from Sauterne Vines ... ... 20s. No. 4. Vin de Rischon le Zion, Red, Sweet Wine. A beautiful Wine from Alicante Vines. Similar to Port 24s. No. 5. Cognac de Rischon le Zion, Old, Pure Grape 60s. The Genuine Rischon le Zion Wines and Cognac have the Trade Mark on each Bottle. PALESTINE WINE & TRADING CO., Ltd., n, BEVIS MARKS, LONDON, E.C. SOLE PROPRIETORS OF THE RISCHON LE ZION BRANDS.V ADVERTISEMENTS. Private Boarding Establishment. Mr. & Mrs. A. ABRAHAMS, “STRATHCLYDE,” WARRIOR SQUARE, St. Leonards=on=Sea. PATRONISED BY THE CHIEF RABBT and MRS. ADLER. Facing the Sea. Home Comforts. Excellent Cuisine. South Aspect. Electric Light Throughout. Tariff on Application.ADV KRTISEMENTS To obtain the best results use a “DIAMOND METROPOLITAN” GAS-COOKER. LONDON, ^ The most UP-TO-DATE. LUTON, and CQq The most EFFICIENT, FALKIRK. ^ The most ECONOMICAL. HEAD OFFICE: 200, CAMBERWELL ROAD, LONDON, S.E. Send a card for our FREE COOKERY BOOK.ADVERTISEMENTS. IS Westftourne Grove Cookery School, • • • • 18, GARWAY ROAD, (Three Doors from 73,) WESTBOURNE GROVE, W. Wessons for Rabies. glasses for (EootL~>. Lessons in every description of Cooking, including Plain and High Class, Ices and Confectionery, Chocolates, Fondants, Liqueur Sweets, Marzipan, etc., etc. . JEWISH COOKING A SPECIALITY. FEES MODERATE. PROSPECTUS ON APPLICATION. Principal Miss E. ROBERTA REES, L.C.A., First-Class Diplomee, Gold Medallist etc.X ADVERTISEMENTS. Purveyor to Her Late Majesty the Queen. L. E. WHITE, "THE SCOTCH HOUSE” Butcher and Poulterer. A SPECIALITY: MOUTON A LA CANARD. 247, High Road, Kilburn, N.W. Telephone No., 438, PADDINGTON. 196 & 198, Portobello Rd., Ming Hill, W. Telephone No., 805, PADDINGTON. 125, Harrow Road, Edgware Road, W. Telephone No., 166, PADDINGTON. 49, Shirland Road, W. Telephone No., 887. Telegraphic Address: “PYCNITE, LONDON.” (For all Establishments.) Deliveries made at Kew, Richmond, and Kingston Daily.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES for Jewish families. ARRANGED BY MAY HENRY, A.A., CERTIFICATED NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY, AND KATE HALFORD, A.A., C.T.T. ILLUSTRATED BY G. LILIAN BRIGHT. SECOND EDITION. LONDON: WERTHEIMER, LEA & CO., CLIFTON HOUSE, WORSHIP STREET, E.C. 1907. Price 2s. 0d.COPYRIGHT. WELLCOME INSTITUTE-- LIBRARY Col!. welMOmec ! Call No. aTDeDicateD TO OUR MOTHER.PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. OWING to the increased demand for our Cookery Book, we have found it necessary to bring out a Second Edition. We have therefore made a few slight cor- rections and have added, by request, the recipe for “ Motza Kleis.” MAY HENRY, 1907. KATE HALFORD.CORRECTION OF RECIPE ON PAGE 85. REMOULADEN SAUCE. Sauce Remoulade. 1 egg-yolk. 1 small onion. 1 sprig of parsley, 1 anchovy and a few capers. Oil, vinegar, and mustard. Pepper and salt. Beat the egg-yolk, add the mustard, pepper and salt, then the oil, drop by drop, stirring continually till thick. Thin it with a few drops of tarragon or other vinegar. Chop the onion, parsley, anchovy and capers finely, and add them to the sauce. MOTZA KLEIS. 2 motzas. f lb. motza meal. 3 oz. suet. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 2 small onions. 2 eggs. Chopped marjoram, pepper and salt, nutmeg. Soak the motzas, squeeze them very dry, add the finely chopped suet, parsley, marjoram, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Chop the onions, brown them in a little dripping, add them and half the motza meal to the mixture. Mix in the beaten eggs, roll the mixture into balls with the remainder of the motza meal, and throw them into the boiling soup half an hour before serving. ERR A T A. Almond Cheesecakes (page 107).—2 oz. castor sugar omitted. Praline Ice (page 136).—Pound in a mortar with 4 oz. burnt sugar. Butter Cakes (page 154).—Bake till golden-brown ; they will be crisp when cold. Jams (page 168).—Jams can be made without the addition of water, allowing an average of £ lb. sugar to each pound of prepared fruit.PREFACE. The success of “ The Economical Jewish Cook,” now in its third edition, has induced me to compile another Jewish Cookery Book in conjunction with my sister, Kate Halford. Intended for family use, we hope it will cater for a class to which the other book did not appeal, by reason of the rigid economy necessary in recipes written primarily for Board School Cookery Classes. We have not repeated any recipes that have already appeared in the smaller book ; those that bear the same names are treated in a different manner. Some of the soup and fish recipes contain milk and butter, others do not; care must therefore be exercised by the orthodox, in choosing soup or fish for dinner. Several recipes included under the heading “ Break- fast Dishes” are suitable as savouries for a butter meal. We have several friends to thank for help in our pleasant task, and we take this opportunity of ex- pressing our gratitude to them. We trust that the illustrations may prove useful to practical cooks, and that the twelve sample menusPREFACE. / XVI may meet with the approval of worried housekeepers ; all recipes mentioned in the menus will be found in the body of the book. We have appended French names wherever possible, but we naturally could not translate some of the old-fashioned Jewish titles. We do not pretend to claim originality for our GOO recipes, but we guarantee that all have been tested and tried, and can, with care, be carried out by the amateur as well as by the professed cook. MAY HENRY. Spring, 1902.MENUS. JANUARY. Cressy Soup. (Potage a la Crecy.) Whitebait. (Blanchailles.) Timbale of Chicken. (Timbale de Poulet d la Pompadour.) Fiilcts of Beef with Olives. (Tournedos aux Olives.) Saddle of Mutton. (Selle de Mouton d la Bourgeoise.) Potato Croquettes. (Croquettes de Pommes de Terre.) Brussels Sprouts with Chestnuts. (Choax de Bruxelles et Marrons.) Roast Pheasants ; Salad. (Faisans rdtis ; Salade.) Apple Macaroon. (Pommes aux Amandes.) Orange Snow. (Boides d’Orange.) Herring Roes a la Russe. (Laitanccs d la Basse.) Pine-apple Water Ice. (Glace d, VAnanas). FEBRUARY. Mock-turtle Soup. (Potage Fausse Torlue.) Turbot, Green Mayonnaise Sauce. (Turbot, sauce Vertpre.) Stewed Pigeons. (Pigeons sautes.) Veal Cutlets a la Venitienne. (Cotrleltes de Veau d la, Venitienne.) Fillet of Beef. (Filet de Bceuf en Matelotte.) Potato Loaves ; Fried Salsify. (Petits Pains de Pommes de Terre ; Sal sifts frits.) Chicken in Casserole. (Poulet, en Casserole.) Celery and Tomato Salad. {Salade de Celeris et Tomates.) Little Chocolate Souffles. (Petits Souffles au Chocolat.) Apricot Eggs. (CEufs en surprise.) Savoury Marrow Toast. (Mo'elle aux Croutes.) Tangerine Water Ice. (Glace aux Tangerines.) BDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 2 Lemon Water Ice. (Glace au Citron.) MARCH. Julienne Soup. (Potage a la Julienne.) Fillets of Sole a l’Orlie. (Filets de Sole d VOrlie.) Brain Patties. (Pates de Cervelles.) Fillets of Beef with Horseradish Sauce. (Filets de Bceu/au Raifort.) Boast Leg of Mutton. (Gigot Gcinii.) Potatoes a la Lyonnaise ; Spinaeh. (Pommes de Terre d la Lyonnaise; Epinards.) Rum Sorbet. (Sorbet au Rhum.) Ducklings, Apple Sauce ; Salad. (Canctons ; Scdade.) Charlotte Russe. (Charlotte d la Creme pralinee.) Lemon Whip. (Creme au Citron.) Devilled Sardines. {Sardines d la Diable.) APRIL. Tomato Soup. (Potage aux Tomcdes.) Fillets of Whiting a l’ltalienne. (Filets de Merlans d Vltalienne. Beef Olives h, l’Allemande. (Olives de Boeuf a VAllemande.) Stewed Sweetbreads with Tomatoes. (Ris de Veau aux Tomates.) Roast Neck of Lamb. (Cotes d'Agneau.) Potato Ribbons; Asparagus. (Pommes de Terre en rubans • A sperges.) Roast Capon. (Chapon roti.) Spring Salad. (Salade Printaniere.) Cabinet Pudding. (Ponding d VAnglaise.) Claret Jelly. (Gelee au Yin rouge.) Kipper Savoury. (Croutes aux Harengs fumes.)3 menus. MAY. Clear Asparagus Soup. (Pot-age a la Sevigne.) Salmon Cutlets, with Mayonnaise. (Dames de Saumon d la Mayonnaise.) Croquettes. (Croquettes d VImperatrice.) Calf's Tongue, Tomato Sauce. (Langue de Vcau, sauce Tomate.) Sirloin of Beef. (Aloyau.) New Potatoes; Green Peas. (Pommes de Terre Nouvelles; Petits Pols. Spring Chicken ; Salad. (Poulet de Bresse • Salade.) Caramel Trifle. (Bagatelle.) Stewed Fruit. (Compote de Fruits.) Foie Gras. (Foie Gras.) Gooseberry Fool Ice. (Glace de Groseilles.) JUNE. Cauliflower Soup. (Potage aux Choux-fleurs.) Salmon Trout. (Truite Saumonee.) Chaudfroid of Chicken. (Chaudfroid de Volatile.) Fillets of Beef with Vegetables. (Filets de Bceuf d la Jardiniere.) Boast Lamb. (Agneau roti.) New Potatoes ; Asparagus. (Pommes de Terre Nouvelles ; Asperges.) Boast Venison,Cranberry Sauce ; Salad. (Venaiso)i; Salade de Saison.) Gateau of Cherries. (Gateau de Cerises.) Fruit Salad. (Macedoine de Fruits.) Cucumber Savoury. (Bouchies de Concombrcs.) Strawberry Ice. (Glace aux Fraises.) B 2DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. A JULY. Clear Soup. (Consomme a la Pate il'Italie.) Red Mullet. (Rougets cn Papillotes.) Veal Quenelles. (Quenelles de Veau.) Cold Tomato Entree. (Tomates a la Reine.) Fillet of Reef. (Filet de Bceuf a la Louis XV.) Sautee Potatoes; Globe Artichokes. (Pommes de Terre Santee s ; Artichauts.) Galantine of Chicken ; Salad. (Galantine de Volaille • Salade de Saison) Marzipan Tartlets. (Pate d'Amande aux Fraises.) Noyau Jelly, with Apricots. (Gelee de Noyau aux Abricots). Sardine Biscuits. (Croutes de Sardines.) Cherry Water Ice. (Glace aux Cerises.) AUGUST. Menu for Supper. Almond Soup. Salmon & la Suedoise. Rolled Fillets of Soles with Cream Sauce. Salad & la Dumas. Salad 1’Allemande. Black-currant Cream. Viennese Chocolate Cake. Fruit Salad. Clnese Straws.MENUS. SEPTEMBER. Calf’s Foot Soup. (Potage aux Pieds de Veau.) Timbales of Haddock. (Timbales d' Aiglefiu.) Cold Curry. (Chaudfroid de Kari.) Fried Sweetbreads. (His de Veau d la Villeroi.) Braised Beef. (Dceuf braise a VEspagnole.) Potato Straws ; French Beans. (.Pailles de Pommes de Ten Haricots verts.) Itoast Goose, Apple Sauce. (Oie rotie.) Steffan. (Stefan.) Meringue Ices. (Meringues Glacees.) Marrow Patties. (Petits Pates de Moelle.) OCTOBER. Giblet Soup. (Potage d VAnglaise.) Boiled Halibut, Tartare Sauce. (Fletan, sauce Tartare.) Mushroom Patties. (Bouchees aux Champignons.) Tournedos of Veal. (Tournedos de Veau.) Mock Hare. (Longe de Mouton.) Croquettes of Potatoes ; Fried Aubergines. (Croquettes de Pommes de Terre; Aubergines frites.) Boiled Fowl. (Poidet.) Citron Pudding. (Ponding de Metz.) Nougat. (Nougat) Mackerel Toast. (Bouchees de Macquercaux.) Apricot Water Jce, (Glace au$ Abricots.)DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. G Peach Water Ice. (Glace aux Ptclics.) NOVEMBER. Turkey Soup. (Potage au Dindon.) Cod, Anchovy Sauce. (Cabillaud, sauce d'Audio is). Epigrammes. (Noisettes de Moutou.) Tartlets of Chicken. (Quenelles de Volaille.) Braised Fillet of Veal. (Filet de Veau braise.) Baked Potatoes; Cauliflower Fritters. (Pommes de Terre au four ; Brig nets de Choux-Jleurs ) Roast Pheasant. (Faisms rods.) White Winter Salad. (Salade Blanche ) Macaroon Basket. (Gateau Chantilly.) Pine-apple Foam. (Gelee cVAnanas.) Anchovies on Toast. (CroAtes d'Anchois.) DECEMBER. Bonne Femme Soup. (Potage a la Bonne Femme.) Fried Smelts. (Eperlans frits.) Blanquetto of Chicken. (Blanquette de Volaille ) Ox-tongue, Tomato Sauce. (Langue de Bceuf, sauce Tomate.) Sirloin. (Aloyau.) Mashed Potatoes; Stewed Celery. (Puree de Pommes de Terre• Celeris etuves.) Roast Turkey. (Dindon roti.) Brussels Sprouts. (Choux de Bruxelles.) Plum Pudding. (Plum Pouding.) Ruby Jelly. (Gelee aux Fruits Rouges.) Tomato Baskets. (Corbeilles de Tomates.)GOOD STOCK. Equal quantities of shin of beef and knuckle of veal. Allow 1 pint of cold water to each lb. of meat, and 1 pint over to allow for boiling away. Cut the meat off the bones and into small pieces and chop up the bones. Put all into a pan with the cold water and bring gradually to the boil, add ^ tea- spoonful salt, skim, and then add vegetables:—1 large carrot, 1 onion, 2 leeks, ^ turnip, ^ head of celery, and some parsley. Also 2 cloves, a few peppercorns, some thyme, and a bay- leaf. Let all boil slowly at least G hours. Strain it through a fine hair - sieve and leave it in a cold place over - night. To clarify it, remove the fat from the surface, and pour the stock carefully into a clean saucepan after removing any im- purities that have settled at the bottom. Dissolve it by gentle heat. Add the whisked whites of 2 eggs and their shells washed and crushed up and ^ lb. lean raw beef finely chopped, to each quart; and also a few vegetables to revive the flavour. Whisk quickly until a scum forms and then leave the stock partly un- covered, to simmer very gently for 1 hour. There will be a thick scum on the top now. Pass the soup once, or twice, if necessary, through a cloth, but be careful not to press the cloth in any way, as this would cloud the stock, If not sufficiently flavoured, boil it up with a few peppercorns; the addition of pepper would spoil the clearness. Cut the meat into small pieces, and break up the bones. Put all into a pan with the cold water, and bring to the boil slowly. Skim thoroughly, add the rest of the ingredients, and simmer for 4 hours. Pour through a fine sieve, and remove the fat when cold, The bones may be boiled again for second stock. GOOD WHITE STOCK. 4 lbs. shin of veal. 1 onion. 1 blade mace. 2 quarts water. A fowl, and any poultry bones. A few stalks of celery.8 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES WHITE VEGETABLE STOCK. 2 quarts cold water. ^ pint dried peas. 3 carrots. 3 onions. 1 stick of celery. 1 bunch of herbs. Seasoning. Boil the soaked peas in the cold water with the prepared carrots, onions, celery, herbs tied in muslin, and seasoning. Cook steadily till the vegetables are tender but not mashed, strain off in the usual way, and clear with whites and shells of eggs if required. If this stock is wanted brown, fry the vegetables, herbs, etc., first in oil or butter, add a very little brown sugar to the seasoning and finish as before. ALMOND SOUP. 1 quart white stock. A bouquet garni. A small piece of carrot and turnip. 1 oz. dripping. ^ lb. ground almonds. 1 onion or shallot. Salt. 1 oz. flour or cornflour. Put the stock into a white saucepan, add the almonds, vegetables and the bouquet garni, and simmer all together for 1 hour. When all is tender, pass it through a hair-sieve. Mix the dripping and flour together in the saucepan, add the strained soup, and boil all for 5 minutes. Serve with fried bread. Artichoke or potato soup can be made the same way, using 2 lbs. artichokes or potatoes instead of the almonds. For a milk soup, use 1^ pints milk and \ pint water instead of stock, and 1 oz. butter instead of dripping. BONNE FEMME SOUP. Potage a la Bonne Femme. 4 lettuces. 1 onion. Nutmeg. 2 oz. dripping. 3 eggs. 1 cucumber. Chervil. Pepper and salt. 2^ pints white stock. Shred the lettuces, cucumber and onion very finely, add the chervil, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and cook them for 10 minutes in the dripping, stirring all the time over a slow fire. Add the stock and stir till it boils. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and then together with a wineglassful of water, and pour them into the soup. Mix well, but do not let it boil up, only heat through,9 SOUPS. BONNE FEMME SOUP. (Another method.) Potage a la Bonne Femme. 4 cabbage lettuces. J bunch chervil. 3 spring onions with green stalks. 1 cucumber. Tarragon. 1 oz. dripping. White pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. 2 teaspoonsful flour. 1 quart white stock. 3 eggs. 1 French roll. Shred the cabbage lettuces finely and the onions, and cut the cucumber into thread-like strips. Put these and the chervil into a saucepan with the dripping, seasoning and nutmeg, and let them simmer over the fire about 7 minutes, shaking the pot to avoid burning. Stir in the flour, and then add the stock. Stir till it boils, and let it boil gently for £ hour. Beat the eggs and a little stock together, and pour them into the stew- pan, taking care the soup does not boil. Break a French roll in pieces and put it into the tureen, pour the soup over very hot, and scatter tarragon leaves on the top. CALF’S FOOT SOUP. Potage aux Pieds de Veau. 2 calf’s feet. Soup vegetables. Bouquet garni (a bunch of her Its). 1 slice smoked beef. 1 oz. dripping. 2 leeks, or the white part of an onion stuck with cloves. 1 dessertspoonful browning. Lemon juice. Mushroom ketchup. 1 gill white wine. Clean and divide the feet, and put them in a saucepan with cold water, vegetables, and a bunch of herbs. Bring to the boil, skim well, and cook till the bones slip out. Put the smoked beef, dripping, 1 sliced carrot and 1 turnip, the leeks or onion and a few peppercorns into a saucepan and fry them for 20 minutes. Add 1 pint of the cold stock, and boil for 1 hour or till reduced to half. Strain this into the rest of the stock, add the browning, and let it boil till it thickens slightly. Skim, season it, add the juice of half a lemon and a dash of mushroom ketchup. Cut the meat from the feet into neat pieces, add it to the soup with the wine, and boil up for a few minutes and serve. Egg balls (see page 12) can be served in the soup if liked.10 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 1 largo cauliflower. 2 tablespoonsful flour. 1 quart stock (white). Salt and pepper. Boil the cauliflower separately, and when cooked, rub half of it through a sieve and add it to the stock. Season it, and thicken it with 2 tablespoonsful of flour to each quart of white stock. Divide the other half of the cauliflower into little branches, and heat them in the soup just before serving. CHESTNUT 50 chestnuts. 2 oz. dripping. 4 lumps of sugar. SOUP. 1 quart brown stock. 1 onion. Pepper and salt. Scald, peel and scrape the chestnuts, and put them in a stew- pan with the dripping, onion, sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer it over a slow fire for f of an hour, and then bruise the chestnuts in a mortar. Remove the pulp into a stew- pan and add the stock, boil up and put it through a sieve. Serve hot with croutons. CHICKEN BROTH. 1 chicken or fowl. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 turnip. Bouillon tie Poulet. 2 stalks celery 1 teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonsful flour. 2 tablespoonsful Keen’s barley. 3 pints water. Cut the vegetables up, lay them at the bottom of a stew-pan, on them place the joints of the fowl, add the water, and barley; simmer slowly hours, moisten the flour with a little water, add it and the salt to the broth, stir till the flour thickens, strain and serve. CLEAR ASPARAGUS SOUP. Potage a la Sevigne. Savoury custard. A small bundle of asparagus. A little c lervil. quart clear (stock). consomme Boil the asparagus points in salted water till tender, and drain them well. Cut the savoury custard into fancy shapes. Put the stock, which has already been cleared, into a clean saucepan, add the asparagus and custard, heat it, but do not let it boil. Serve with chopped chervil, added at the last moment.11 SOUPS. CROUTONS FOR SOUP. Cut some bread about j incli thick, cut it into dice. Put some clarified dripping into a frying pan, heat it until it turns a light brown, fry the bread a golden colour, and drain on kitchen paper. CONSOMME A LA ROYALE. 1 quart stock. 1 turnip and carrot. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg. £ lb. gravy beef. 1 onion. Salt and pepper. Clear the stock by mincing the meat finely and adding it to the stock with the cleaned and shredded soup vegetables. Stir all over the fire and whisk it till it boils, when the meat will be almost colourless. Put the lid on and let it stand by the side of the fire for 20 minutes, then strain it through a cloth till quite clear. Beat the yolks and white of egg, and add 1 gill melted stock, a little salt, and cayenne. Grease a jam jar, pour the mixture into it, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire for 10 to 15 minutes. When sufficiently cooked, it will be firm. The water must not boil too quickly or the custard will be full of holes. Let it cool, turn it out of the jar, cut it into dice and serve in the hot soup. 3 large onions. A bunch of sweet herbs 1 blade mace. 1 quart stock. 6 good-sized carrots. CRESSY SOUP. Potaye a la Crecy. 2 oz. dripping. 2 oz. rice. 4 pint water. 4 cloves. 1 teaspoonful peppercorns. Heat the dripping, slice the onions, and fry brown. Add all the other ingredients except the rice, and boil gently for § hour, till the vegetables are tender. Pass through a wire sieve, season with salt, return it to the pan, and boil 4 hour to make the mixture creamy. Add the rice, boil 15 minutes, and serve. DRIED GREEN PEA SOUP (Milk). Puree a la St.-Germain. 1 lb. green peas. 4 oz. spinach. Vegetable stock (page 8). 2 oz. butter. 1 gill cream. Seasoning. Strips of savoury custard. Soak the peas for 12 hours at least, drain them, put them onDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 12 in fresh water, and cook for 5 hours, till perfectly tender; rub them through a sieve. Boil the spinach, rub it through a sieve, mix the two purees, dilute with vegetable stock, season to taste. Stir over the fire till hot, add the butter, and when this is dis- solved, stir in the cream off the fire. Just before serving, slip some strips of savoury custard carefully into it, and serve with dice of fried bread. EGG BALLS. 3 eggs. Salt and pepper. Breadcrumbs. Grated nutmeg. Boil 2 of the eggs hard, throw them into cold water for 5 minutes. Take out the yolks, and rub them smooth with a spoon. Mix this with about an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and a little salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix them with half a beaten egg. Make them into very small round balls, as they swell considerably. GIBLET SOUP. Sixpennyworth giblets. 1 quart brown stock. 1 pint water. Salt and pepper to taste. 1 onion. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 1 pickled walnut or a little browning. Meat-balls (page 14). Wash and clean the giblets well, chop them up, put them in a saucepan with the water, salt, pepper, chopped onion, and pickled walnut chopped small. Let all simmer till tender, strain the water from the giblets into the stock, mix the flour with the lemon juice, stir it into the stock, stir till it thickens, add the giblets and some small meat balls. Serve very hot. GREEN FLAGEOLETS SOUP. Potcirje Sans Souci. 1 lb. flageolet beana. 1 lb. spinach. 1 pint cold water. £ pint unclarifled vegetable stock (see page 8). 1 oz. dripping Soak the beans in cold water for 12 hours, drain them, and put them in a stew-pan with a pint of cold water; let them simmer till quite soft and pulpy, stirring them occasionally— especially at the last—to prevent them burning, adding a very little water as that in the pan evaporates, so that when done there is hardly any liquor left. Pick the spinach, boil it in another pan with a little salt till tender, shake it- occasionally,13 SOUPS then strain and rub through a sieve. Rub the beans also through a sieve and mix the two purees, diluting them to the desired consistency with a little unclarified vegetable stock. Season to taste, add the dripping broken into pieces, and stir all over the fire till hot. Serve with dice of fried bread. JULIENNE SOUP. Potage a la Julienne. 8 pints stock. Any vegetables that are in season, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, green peas, asparagus points, French beans, lettuce, sorrel, etc. Clean the vegetables, and cut them into very fine shreds. Allow 1 oz. dripping to every half-pint of vegetables. Sweat the vegetables in the dripping with a little sugar for 10 to 20 minutes, according to the age of the vegetables. Shake often, and do not let them colour. Then add them to the stock, allowing 3 pints of stock to \ pint of vegetables, and boil very gently for 1 hour. The vegetables are sometimes cooked separately, and added to the clear stock just before serving, but the above recipe makes a soup with a richer blended flavour. KIDNEY SOUP. h lb. ox kidney, 1 oz. dripping. 2 carrots. 1 small turnip. 1 small onion. 1 quart boiling water (or stock.) 1 teaspoonful vinegar. 1 tablespoonful Harvey sauce. 2 oz. flour. Pepper and salt to taste. Cut up the vegetables and kidney, and dredge them with flour. Melt the dripping in a stew-pan, put the pieces of kidney and vegetables into it, let them brown, add all the other in- gredients. Let the soup simmer gently for 11 to 2 hours, re- moving any scum that may come to the top. Strain, thicken carefully with flour, and serve. LIVER BALLS. ^ lb. liver. Breadcrumbs. 1 whole egg. Pepper and salt. 1 tenspoonful chopped parsley. Scrape the liver finely, add the egg, chopped parsley, popper and salt, and sufficient breadcrumbs to make the mixture cohere. Mould into little balls. Simmer slowly in hot soup about \ hour, and serve in the soup.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 14 MACARONI (MILK) SOUP. £ lb. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg yolk. 2 oz. grated cheese. U pints milk. Pepper and salt. 1 teaspoonful casumen, dissolved in cold water. Boil the macaroni in salt and water for \ hour; let it cool and cut it into 1-inch lengths. Boil 1 pint milk, then drop in the macaroni. Add the grated cheese, butter, casumen, and the egg yolk beaten in \ pint milk, and warm up, but do not let it boil. These last ingredients should only be added just before serving the soup. MEAT BALLS. 4 lb. raw beef. A small piece of onion. A little parsley. A little marjoram. Breadcrumbs. Lemon peel. Salt, pepper, nutmeg. 1 PP'Dr Chop the meat, onion and parsley very fine, mix it with the marjoram, breadcrumbs, seasoning, and a little chopped lemon peel. Beat up an egg and use half to bind the mixture. Make it into small balls, and use as required. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Potage Fausse Tortue. £ a calf’s head. 3 oz. flour. Celery. 2 onions. Mushrooms. 1 gill sherry or Chablis. Juice of £ a lemon. 2 oz. dripping. A clove of garlic. 2 shallots. 1 leek, carrot, turnip. Mace, cinnamon, cloves. Turtle herbs (1 large bayleaf, parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, lemon thyme). Clean the head well and put it in a stew-pan with sufficient cold water to cover it (3 or 4 quarts), and some of the vegetables. Stew this gently for 2 to hours. Take out the head and cut off the gelatinous parts, which should be cut into squares to put into the soup when serving. Strain off the liquor, which should make about 3 quarts, and can be strengthened by more boiling. Now put all the vegetables, spices and salt into a stew-pan, with the flour and dripping, and cook all together till brown, then pour in the stock and let it boil for 20 minutes. Add the pieces of the head, lemon juice, wine, and cayenne, heat up, and serve.15 SOUPS. ONION SOUP (Milk). Potage a la Soubise. 4 large onions. 3f pints milk. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill cream. Crumb of a stale roll. Peel the onions, ent them in dice, melt the butter in a stew- pan over a slow fire, and lay in it the onions; cover the pan and leave it for an hour. Then pour in by degrees the boiling milk, the stale breadcrumb, a little pepper and salt, if necessary. Replace the lid on the pan and simmer for at least an hour, rub it through a sieve with a, wooden spoon, and add the cream care- fully. If the puree is too thin, reduce it by boiling up sharply, if too thick, add a little more milk. Serve with grated cheese. PARMENTIER SOUP (Milk). Potage Parmentier. 2 onions. White part of 2 leeks. 1 head of celery. 12 potatoes. 3 or 4 oz, butter. pints white vegetable stock (page 8). Salt. 2 cloves. Yolks of two eggs. 3 or 4 tablespoonsful milk or cream. A little finely-chopped parsley and chervil. Slice the onions, leeks and celery, lay them in a pan with the peeled and sliced potatoes, and 2 oz. butter; let it all fry together without colouring for 10 minutes, add the stock, herbs, salt and cloves, and simmer till the vegetables are tender, then rub through a sieve. Return the puree to the pan and simmer for 20 minutes, skimming carefully. If too thick, dilute with milk. Just before serving, stir into it the yolks of the eggs, beaten up in the cream or milk, with 2 oz. butter cut up small. Let this melt, add the parsley and chervil, and serve with dice of fried bread. POT AU FEU. 3 lb. meat to 6 quarts water. 1 head of cabbage. 1 parsnip. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 3 or 4 leeks and onion. 3 tablespoonsful Florador, sago, or vermicelli. (Shin or ox-cheek or any inferior piece of meat can be used.) Take out the hone, tie up the meat, put it in the saucepan with the water and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Bring to the boil, and16 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. skim well for 1 to 1^ hours. Add the vegetables according to the time they require cooking, the head of cabbage requiring half an hour, etc. Stick one onion with cloves, and roast one to colour the soup. It should cook altogether 4 hours steadily. Remove the meat and garnish it with the vegetables. Add the Florador, sago or vermicelli to the soup 10 minutes before serving. 5 leeks. 2 oz. dripping. 1 small onion 5 cloves. PUREE OF LEEKS. Potcuje aux Poireaux. Mace, bayleaf, thyme. 3 tablespoonsful Patna rice, stuck with 1 carrot. 1 quart white stock. Cut the leeks and carrot into thin slices, and fry them in the dripping till they are golden brown. Add the stock, onion, mace, bay-leaf and thyme, and boil till the vegetables are tender, simmering it altogether about 3 hours. Remove the spices and herbs, and rub the vegetables through a sieve. Return all to the saucepan, and add the rice boiled as for curry, heat through, and serve. SPANISH SOUP. 2 quarts water. 2 endives. 2 lettuces. 3 onions. 2 oz. dripping. Pepper and salt. 1 breakfast cup of browned and grated breadcrumbs. Shred the endives and lettuces, slice the onions and fry them in the dripping till well cooked, stirring them all the time. Boil the water, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt together for f hour, then strain the water and mix it with the lightly-fried vegetables. Boil all together for 10 minutes. Hand fried bread cut in dice with this soup. TOMATO SOUP. 2 lbs. of ripe red tomatoes. 2 carrots. 1 bunch of herbs. 2 quarts stock. U oz. dripping. 11 oz. Remylina cornflour. 6 peppercorns. Salt and a pinch of castor sugar. Break the tomatoes into an enamelled saucepan with the drip- ping, herbs, and seasoning. Wash and grate the red parts of the carrots, and add to the other ingredients. Cover the pan andSOUPS. 17 cook for ^ hour. Add the stock, and boil for another 5 hour. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with cold stock, add it to the soup, pass all through a sieve, and re-boil. Add carmine to improve the colour if necessary. PORTABLE SOUP. 4 lbs. knuckle of veal. 3 lbs. gravy beef. 4 lbs. shin of beef. 3 large onions. Boil the meat in as much water only as will cover it. Remove the marrow from the bones, break them up, add a little spice and the onions, and boil all together. When the meat is done to rags, strain off the liquor and let it stand in a cold place. Take off the fat from the top when cold, and put the soup in a saucepan. Boil it fast and uncovered for 8 hours, stirring it constantly. Pour it into a basin and let it stand a day. Then place the basin in a pan of boiling water on the fire, let it boil again till the soup is thick and ropy. Pour it into flat, plain patty pans to form cakes. When cold turn out on to flannel to dry. Keep the cakes in tin canisters. Use as required, adding boiling water and flavouring. TURKEY SOUP. Break up the bones of a cold turkey and grill them. Place them in the stock-pot with 4 lb. lean smoked beef, a little bruised celery-seed, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, G dried mush- room stalks, a thin piece of lemon peel, pepper and salt to taste, and 2 quarts cold water. Let it come to the boil, skim well, and simmer gently for 4 hours. Strain into a basin and set aside till next day; then remove the fat, place the stock in a clean saucepan, and let it boil up. Strain through a tammy, re-heat, and serve with quenelles as follows:—Mix well together 2 oz. pounded turkey, 1 oz. panada, 1 oz. suet, a very little nutmeg, pepper and salt; bind with an egg, shape into balls the size of a nut, poach them in boiling water, and put into the tureen just before serving. cthem from bones and skin, cut them in long strips, about 1 inch FISH. 1 lb. cod. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour, j pint milk. COD A LA CREME. Cabillaud d la Creme. \ pint water. [vinegar. £ teaspoonful lemon juice or 1 hard-boiled egg. Salt and pepper to taste. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the water gradually, stir the mixture over the fire till smooth, add the milk, chopped white of egg and vinegar. Boil the fish, remove the skin and bone, flake the fish, and coat it with the sauce. Decorate with the sieved yolk of egg and some chopped parsley. FRIED COD’S ROE. Soak a fresh cod’s roe in salt and water, wrap it in a piece of muslin, and boil it in salted water for ^ of an hour. Let it get cold, remove from the muslin, and cut it into £ inch thick slices. Cover with egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat or oil. Drain on paper, and arrange on a dish, like cutlets. COD A LA SUEDOISE. Cabillaud d la Suedoise. Cold cooked cod, or halibut. Cold mashed potatoes. Suedoise sauce (see page 86). Capers. Neatly flake the cold boiled fish, mix it with some Suedoise sauce. Form a ring round it of the mashed potato, pour the sauce all over it, and decorate with capers. FRIED FILLETS OF FISH A LA FRANQAISE. Take the fillets of a fresh haddock, or other suitable fish, free19 FISH. wide, season them with pepper, a little anchovy essence, salad oil and chopped parsley, and let them remain in the seasoning about 1 hour; remove them from the seasoning, sprinkle them over with fine flour, and dip them in whole beaten-up egg, and then in fresh white breadcrumbs. Tie each fillet in the shape of a lover’s knot, and fry them in boiling fat, or oil, till a golden colour; drain them, arrange round a pile of crisply fried parsley, and serve hot. ROLLED FILLETS OF FISH WITH CREAM SAUCE. Filets de Poisson a la Creme. 8 fillets, fried. 2 hard-boiled yolks of egg. \ pint cream. Juice of two lemons. 1 tablespoonful anchovy sauce. Salt, pepper, mustard, cayenne. Roll and tie the fillets, flour and egg them, and fry in boiling oil. When cold, serve with the following sauce :—Rub the hard- boiled yolks smooth, add the cream, lemon juice, anchovy sauce, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, mix well, and stir till all is well incorporated. Tour over the fried fillets. FISH A LA RAVIGOTTE. i lb. cold boiled fish. 1 onion. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. £ oz. butter. 2 oz. breadcrumbs. 1 gill fish liquor or milk. 1 whole egg. 1 yolk. 1 hard-boiled egg. 2 pint white sauce. Anchovy essence. 1 tablespoonful capers. Chillies. Grease a cake-tin, and cover it thickly with browned bread- crumbs. Shred the fish finely, add the onion minced, and the parsley chopped, and cook it in the butter without browning it. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the 2 oz. breadcrumbs, milk or fish liquor, 2 yolks, and the white of egg all beaten together. Pour into the cake-tin, and bake 40 minutes. Turn out to serve, and pour the following sauce round the mould: — Colour J, pint white sauce with essenco of anchovy to a pale pink, add the chopped capers, the coarsely chopped' hard-boiled cSg> and a small quantity of chopped chillies. C 2DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 20 FISH SALAD. Mayonnaise de Cabillaud. Cold cooked cod or other white fish. Cold sliced potatoes. 1 tablespoonful capers. Cooked beetroot. Mayonnaise sauce. 1 head of celery, blanched and cut up in dice. Remove the bones from the fish, flake it up with a silver fork, mix with it the sliced potatoes, celery, capers and sauce. Pile all neatly on a dish, decorate with strips of beetroot, and serve. Chicken Salad is made the same way, substituting dice of chicken and smoked beef for the flaked fish. SCALLOPED FISH. Poisson en Coquillcs. Break some cold cooked fish into small pieces, place it in china scallops, with little lumps of butter, seasoning, a few drops of anchovy sauce and a little cream, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and bake them in the oven for 10 minutes, or brown them before the fire. Serve hot in the scallops. STEWED FISH. 1 pint cold water. 4 eggs. Parsley. A pinch of saffron and spice. Breadcrumbs. P- 3 lbs. fish. Cod’s liver. 1 oz. flour. 2 onions. 3 lemons. 1 tablespoonful oil. Pepper and salt. Chop the onions, and fry them in the oil, reserve a small quantity for the balls. When the onions are soft, put in the fish and water, and cook till the fish is done, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and make the sauce. Sauce: Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, add the egg yolks, and lemon juice, and a pinch of saffron, mix all well together. Add some of the fish liquor from the sauce- pan to the sauce, stir, and thicken the sauce over the fire. Pour it over the fish, put the balls in, and warm up. Palls: Chop the cooked fish liver very finely, add breadcrumbs, the whites of 2 eggs, the remainder of the onion finely chopped, a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and spice. Roll them into small balls, adding sufficient breadcrumbs to make them the right consistency, hot or cold. Cook them a few minutes in the sauce, and serveFISH 21 VOL AU VENT OF FISH. Vol au Vent de Poisson. 1 lb. puff pastry. White sauce. Cold cooked fish. A little cream. Seasoning1. Roll out the pastry ^ an inch thick. Cut out a round about 7 inches in diameter, and cut half-way through the centre with a cutter 2 inches smaller. Roll the remainder of the pastry \ inch thick, and cut it in a round about 6 inches in diameter. Lay both pieces on a baking sheet, pin a piece of oiled paper about 5 inches in depth round the larger pastry, to keep it in shape. Bake in a hot oven for 30 to 45 minutes. About 15 minutes before removing it from the oven, brush over the top with a little egg. When done, remove the centre, and fill with the fish mixture. Place the small round on the top, reheat, and serve (see illustration, page 45). Fish filling: Flake the fish, and remove all bones and skin, mix it with the white sauce, cream, and seasoning, and warm through in a saucepan, before putting it in the vol au vent. TIMBALES OF HADDOCK. Timbales d'A iglejin. £ lb. cooked (dried) haddock 1 gill white stock. 1 gill almond milk. 4 pint aspic jelly. £ oz. isinglass. Cayenne and salt. 2 or 3 drops of tarragon vinegar. Wet some tiny dariole moulds, and line them with semi-melted aspic jelly. Put them on ice to set, and decorate them with chillies and truffles, or grated egg yolk and chopped parsley. Dissolve the isinglass in the almond milk over the fire, and when slightly cooled, add the white stock, chopped fish, cayenne, and tarragon. Stir well, and fill the little moulds. When set, turn them out, and garnish with chopped aspic and sliced cucumber, or hard-boiled egg. ROLLED HERRINGS. 4 fresh herrings. 1 teaspoonful milk. 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs. Pepper and salt to taste. Grated rind of half a lemon. 2 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Make a stiff mixture with the breadcrumbs, parsley, lemon rind, pepper, salt, and milk. Fillet the herrings, on each filletDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 22 spread a layer of the mixture; roll up, and tie in shape. Place the fillets on a greased tin, put a small lump of butter on each roll, cover with greased paper, and bake for 10 minutes. Serve very hot. MACKEREL A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Maquereciu a la Maitre cVHdtel. Marinade the mackerel for 1 hour (or over-night) in a little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, a squeeze of lemon, and a scrap of sliced onion. Remove the fish from the marinade, place it on a gridiron over a clear fire for about 10 minutes, turning it once. Melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. When this is hot, pour it over the mackerel, which has been placed on a hot dish. MACKEREL A LA NORMANDE. la Normande. 1 shallot or small piece onion. 2 oz. butter or beef dripping. | teaspoonful salt. } teaspoonful pepper, mixed herbs. Maquereau a 1 mackerel. 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. \ teaspoonfu Wash and dry the fish, remove the head and tail, split it down the back, remove the bones. Crease a tin with part of the butter, place half fish on tin, skin downwards, sprinkle over it crumbs, shallot, parsley, herbs, pepper, and salt; put part of the butter in small pieces on stuffing, place the other half fish on top, skin upwards, and remainder of the butter; bake 15 to 20 minutes, basting frequently. PORTUGUESE MACKEREL. Maquereau d la Portugaisc. Make some deep cuts in a large mackerel, rub into the cuts a little finely chopped onion and parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Place the fish in a pie-dish, pour over it about a gill of vinegar, put it in a moderate oven, turn it occasionally, and bake till quite brown.FISH. 23 MULLET A L’lTALIENNE. lioitgets a Vltalienne. C fresh mullets filleted. 2 shallots. 6 mushrooms. 1 oz. flour. 2 oz. clarified fat. Thyme, bayleaf, lemon. 1 gill sherry, pint stock. Grease a baking dish or tin, and lay the fillets on it. Sprinkle them with salt, cayenne, and lemon juice, cover with a greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven. Drain off the moisture from the fish into the sauce, prepared as follows:—Chop the shallots and mushrooms, and fry in 1 oz. dripping. Dredge with 1 oz. flour, add the thyme and bayleaf, and stir over the fire till brown. Add the sherry, and boil till it is reduced to half. Add the stock, boil \ hour, strain it over the fillets on a hot dish. Serve garnished with slices of lemon. RED MULLETS EN PAPILLOTTES. liougets en Papillottes. G red mullets. Chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. Lemon juice. Only wipe the fish very dry, never draw or clean red mullet. Lay each fish on a sheet of oiled writing paper, sprinkled with pepper and salt and chopped parsley, and squeeze a few drops of lemon juice on it. Fold up the papers, and bake the fish 10 to 15 minutes. Serve in the papers. SALMON CUTLETS. Cotelettes de Saumon. 1 slice salmon. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. \ gill cream. Lemon juice. It pint breadcrumbs. 1 egg. Frying oil. Boil the sahnou, cut it up into very small pieces, removing all skin and bones. Mix the butter and flour in a stew-pan, add 1 gill cold water, boil up, stirring all the time. Add the lemon juice, cream, salt, and cayenne. Then mix the fish in this sauce, and turn out to cool. Make the mixture when cold into cutlet shaped pieces, dip in the egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling oil in a frying-basket.24 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES CUTLETS OF SALMON A LA SUEDOISE. Dames de Saumou a la Suedoise. 4 slices of salmon. Salt and pepper. Lemon juice. 3 large tomatoes. 1 dessertspoonful tarragon a inegar. Suedoise sai 1 tablespoonful salad oil. A few drops of liquid carmine. 2 table-spoonsful liquid aspic jelly. Chopped tarragon and chervil. Watercress salad. (see page 86). Place the slices of salmon on a buttered tin, sprinkle with pepper and lemon juice, cover with a buttered paper ; bake till firm. Pound the tomatoes, season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and bring up the colour with carmine if necessary. Pub all through a sieve, mix in the aspic, chopped tarragon, and chervil; pour this puree over the cooked salmon, and dish round water- cress salad; garnish with blocks of iced Suedoise sauce. SALMON FRITTERS. Croquettes de Saumon. | lb. cold cooked salmon or other fish. \ lb. mashed potatoes. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. Pepper aod salt to taste. Egg- Breadcrumbs. Frying oil. Free the fish from bones, Hake it up, add to it the mashed potato, hard-boiled egg cut into small pieces, parsley, seasoning, and anchovy sauce; a little beaten egg must be added if neces- sary to bind the mixture. Form into small Hat cakes, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling oil till a golden brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, dish neatly, and decorate with sprigs of parsley, or chopped parsley. PICKLED SALMON. Saumon d la Marinade. 1 thick slice salmon. 4 pint vinegar. 2 cloves. 1 shallot. 4 gill aspic. Pepper. Boil the salmon, drain it, set it aside to get cold, place it on a dish. Put all the other ingredients in a stew'-pan, let them boil up, strain them over the salmon, and serye cold,FISH. 25 BROCHET OF SMELTS. Brocket d'Eperlans. Melt 2 oz. of butter on a fire-proof dish, dredge raspings of bread on it, add pepper and salt to taste, a little chopped parsley and shallot. Place the smelts on this mixture, pour over them a wineglassful of white wine (if liked), some anchov}r sauce, and finish with another ounce of butter, placed in little lumps on the fish. Bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes, basting occa- sionally ; garnish with slices of lemon and some fried parsley, and serve hot. SOLES IN ASPIC. Soles en 2 soli s (or lemon soles). \ pint aspic jelly. 1 hard-boiled egg. Cut twro moderate sized soles 1 spic. Green salad. 1 lemoD. Salt, pepper and cayenne, into neat fillets, rub them with lemon juice, and sprinkle with salt and cayenne. Place them on a greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and bake in a hot oven for 7 to 10 minutes. Remove them to a fiat dish, and when cold mask them with melted aspic jelly. Cut round when set, and arrange them round a good salad. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and chillies. DEVILLED SOLE. Sole a la D/able. 1 sole. 1 dessertspoonful curry paste. 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce. Juice of £ lemon. 2 tablespoonsful salad oil, and 1 of vinegar. 2 bay leaves, 1 sprig parsley. A very small piece of chopped onion. 1 teaspoonfol finely chopped chutney. Salt and pepper. Remove the skin and head of the sole, and score it with a knife on both sides. Soak it for 1 hour in the oil, vinegar, bay leaves, onion, parsley, salt and pepper. Place the sole in the oven on a fiat dish. When it has been \ hour in the oven, spread it with the mixture of curry paste, anchovy sauce, lemon juice, chutney, salt and pepper, and return to oven for 10 minutes. Serve with chopped parsley sprinkled on it, and garnish with slices of lemon,DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 26 FILLETS OF SOLE IN ASPIC. Filets cle Soles en Aspic. 2 small filleted soles. Parsley or chervil. £ pint aspic jelly. Seasoning and lemon juice. Ilavigotte sauce. Trim the fillets neatly, sprinkle them with chopped parsley and seasoning. Roll them up lightly, place them on an oiled baking tin, squeeze lemon juice over them, cover with an oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven for 15 minutes. Turn them on to a plate, and let them cool. Wet some small moulds, line them with aspic jelly, garnish with parsley and chervil, set this again with aspic, put a rolled fillet in each, fill up with just liquid aspic, and set on one side till cold. Turn out, and force a little ravigotte sauce, thickened with aspic jelly, on to each. Garnish with watercress, picked and tossed in oil and vinegar, and with little blocks of aspic. FILLETS OF SOLE A L’ESPAGNOLE. Filets de Soles d VEspagnole. Arrange the fillets with the ends crossing each other on a greased baking tin, and squeeze a little lemon juice over them. Bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes, place them round a dish, keep them hot, and prepare a sauce as follows:—Peel a small Spanish onion, cut it in thin slices, mince it and fry in salad oil till quite cooked, but not coloured. Peel some tomatoes, and remove the pips (have double as much tomato as onion), add them to the onion, with pepper and salt to taste. Stir the mixture well over the fire till it is slightly reduced, then care- fully place it in the middle of the fillets, sprinkle with parsley, and serve. FILLETS OF SOLE A L’ORLIE. Filets de Soles d VOrlie. Fillets of sole or other white fish. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 small sliced onion. Parsley, salt am Frying batter made of :—6 oz. flour, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter or salad oil, 1 gill tepid water. Tomato sauce (see page 86.) popper to taste. Trim the fillets, and marinade them for an hour in the lemon juice, onion, parsley, pepper and salt. Put the flour in a basin with a little salt, yolk of the egg, oiled butter, or salad oil; stir in gradually about a gill of tepid water, working all together with a wooden spoon, till the batter is smooth and looks like27 FISH. rich cream; let it stand 2 hours, then heat in lightly the white of egg, whipped to a stiff froth, and use. Drain the fish from the marinade, dip each piece in the batter, fry a golden brown, drain, sprinkle with minced parsley, and pile on a dish. Serve tomato sauce with them. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA VENITIENNE. Filets cle Soles a la Venitienne. The fillets and bones soles. | lb. butter. Salt and pepper. Lemon juice. 2 gills water. G peppercorns. Bouquet of herbs. of 4 1 sliced shallot. 2 cloves. G potatoes. 1 gill milk. 2 tablespooDsful line flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. Chopped parsley. Trim the fillets neatly, roll each round a cork-shaped piece of parboiled potato, tie with lino string, brush each with liquid butter, place them on a well-buttered tin, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; lay a buttered paper over, and bake in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 minutes. Stew the bones and trim- mings of the fish in a little water, adding salt, peppercorns, herbs, sliced shallot, and cloves, let this all boil for about an hour, then strain. With a sharp knife cut the remaining peeled potatoes into cork-shaped pieces, and boil them till soft in milk and water. Melt 2 oz. of the butter in a small stew-pan, mix the flour in gradually, stirring all the time, then add \ pint of the fish-stock, and stir the sauce till it is smooth and thick. Take two-thirds of the sauce, season it to taste, stir in the well beaten egg yolks and a few drops of lemon juice. Remove the string from the fillets, place them in a circle on a silver dish, pour the sauce over them. Toss the potato-corks in the remainder of the white sauce, then place them in the centre of the dish, pour the hot cream over them, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. SAVALADE OF SOLE. Sole a la Savalade. 2 soles. 2 Spanish onions. Frying oil. 3 large tomatoes. Pepper, salt and cayenne. Fillet the soles, and fry them a little brown in boiling oil. Slice the onions, and fry them in oil. Drain off the frying oil, add the fish to the onions and the tomatoes, peeled and sliced.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 28 Add the seasonings, and simmer together for a few minutes. Arrange tlie fillets in a circle on a hot dish, and place the vege- tables in the centre. Serve hot. SOLE A LA TURQUE. 1 sole. 1 per o' 1 oz. blitter. 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs. 2 tablespoonsful cold fish. ^ teaspoonful minced herbs. 1 teaspoonful parsley. 1 lemon. 1 hard-boiled egg. ^ pint white sauce. Skin the sole, cut down the centre as if for filleting, and just raise the fillets about 1 inch on either side of the bone. Place the fish on a greased tin. Rub the butter into the breadcrumbs, add the pounded fish, chopped herbs, and parsley, and a little grated lemon peel, and bind all together with the egg. Lay this stuffing under each fillet, and make it into a nice shape. Sprinkle with lemon juice, pepper, and salt, cover with a greased paper, and bake 15 to 20 minutes. Place on a hot dish, pour over the white sauce, and decorate with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. TURBOT—SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. Clean the turbot, rub it over with a cut lemon, and fold it in a clean cloth. Boil it in salted water, to which 1 dessertspoon vinegar has been added. Drain when cooked, remove the cloth, and serve on a hot dish, garnished with cut lemon and parsley. Serve with it: — Ilallandaisc Sauce: Cream 3 oz. butter, add the yolks of 2 eggs, one at a time, and stir one way only. Add gradually the strained juice of a lemon and a pinch of pepper. Stand the bowl in which the sauce is being made, over a saucepan of boiling water, and stir till the mixture thickens. Add a wine- glass of boiling water, and stir till it is as thick as a custard. WHITEBAIT. Blancliailles. Whitebait. Frying oil or fat. Flour. Fried parsley. Keep the whitebait on ice till required ; dry them carefully in a cloth, sprinkle another cloth with flour, place the whitebait in it, then put them in a wire frying-basket, shake off the loose flour, dip the basket into boiling fat, and fry till crisp ; drain on kitchen-paper, pile on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, serve with cut lemon and cayenne pepper,29 FISH. DEVILLED WHITEBAIT. Blanchailles a la Diable. Same as above, but sprinkle with salt and cayenne before serving. BOUDINS OF WHITING. Boudins de Merlan. 3 whitings. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. flour. 2 tablespoonsful cream. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. White sauce. Boil the fish, remove all the flesh from the bones and skin, chop well. Make a panada of the butter, flour, milk, and eggs, stir the fish into this, pound all well together, pass the mixture through a wire sieve, and add the cream. Butter six small dariolo moulds, fill them with the mixture, and steam them gently about 20 minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour a white sauce round, and decorate with chopped parsley. FILLETS OF WHITING A LTTALIENNE. 8 fillets of whiting, 1 lemon. 5 or G button mushrooms 1 shallot. Chop the mushrooms and sha Filets de Merlan d VItalienne. 1 gill sherry. ^ oz. flour. 1 j gill white stock. 2 oz. clarified fat. lot, fry them in 1 oz. fat, add the sherry, and let it reduce. Stir in the flour, and when it has thickened, add the stock and a little lemon juice, and boil all together. Pour over the fillets after they have been rolled up, placed on a greased tin, sprinkled, with lemon juice and salt, and baked in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 minutes, covered with greased paper. STUFFED FILLETS OF WHITING. 3 whitings. 1 small onion. 3 or 4 mushrooms. Parsle) Filets de Merlan Farcis. Salt and pepper. Egg- Breadcrumbs. Clarified fat or oil. Billet the whitings, and sprinkle each piece with pepper, salt, and finely chopped onion, mushrooms, and parsley. Boll each piece up, and fasten with a little wooden skewer. Dip them in egg) and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat or oil. Remove the skewers, and serve.ENTREES. ASPIC JELLY. 1£ pints water. 2 tablespoonsful malt vine- gar. 2 tablespoonsful tarragon vinegar. 4 lemons (peel and juice). 4 pint sherry. Small pieces carrot, turnip, and onion. Few drops essence of celery or some celery salt. ^ teaspoonful peppercorns. Small bunch of herbs. Whites and shells of 4 eggs. 1^ oz. isinglass. Wash the eggs, crush the shells, whip the whites half stiff, peel the lemons thinly, squeeze out the juice; put all the in- gredients in a stew-pan, and whisk over the fire till nearly boiling. Let it boil till it reaches the top of the pan, remove the pan from the fire, stand it aside for 10 minutes with the lid on, strain the jelly through a clean kitchen-cloth or jelly-bag into a warm basin; if not quite clear, strain it through again. BEEF OLIVES A L’ALLEMANDE. Olives de Bceuf d VAllemande. \\ lbs. steak. 1 teaspoonful made mustard. 1 small onion. 1 slice smoked beef or sausage. Pepper, salt, cayenne. Gravy. Grate the onion, scrape the smoked beef finely, and mix this with the seasonings. Cut the steak into neat squares, spread each piece with the stuffing, roll up and tie, or fasten with a small skewer. Stew them 1 hour in the gravy, and arrange neatly on a hot dish after cutting the strings or taking out the skewers. a BRAIN PATTIES. PdUs de Cervelles. 4 lb. puff pastrj7. 1 set of ox brains. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. \ pint of white sauce. 1 blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Line some patty-pans with puff pastry, mark the centres with very small round cutter and bake them. Soak the brains inEMTEEES. 31 cold water and skin them, then tie them np in muslin, and boil them in hot water, to which vinegar and salt has been added, for 15 to 20 minutes. AVhen cold, chop them finely, add the white sauce in which the mace has been boiled, and the seasoning. Mix well, heat it together, fill the baked patty cases, and re-heat in the oven till served. CALVES’ FEET FRITTERS. Beignets de Pieds de Veau. Boil two calves’ feet as for jelly, but do not let them stew till they fall to pieces; take them out while they are still firm, split them open, remove the bones (which can be returned to the stock), and lay the meat flat on a dish to get cold. Cut them into small cutlet-shaped pieces, dip each piece either in batter, or egg and breadcrumb, and fry in boiling fat or oil to a golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper and serve with Spanish sauce (page 85). CALF’S HEAD IN BATTER. Remoulade Sauce. Beignets de Tete de Veau. Stew the calf’s head till tender, and then cut it into pieces about 4 inches square. Dip each piece into a well seasoned thick batter, and fry in boiling fat. Serve the following sauce in a separate sauceboat: — Eemoulade Sauce: 1 egg yolk beaten, add oil, drop by drop, stirring continually, and when thick, thin it by stirring in a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Add chopped capers and parsley, and serve. CALF’S HEAD STEW. Tete de Veau. Herbs. Peppercorns. Lemon peel. Parsley. Mushrooms. Hard-boiled egg. Brown sauce. Clean and blanch half a calf’s head, and place it in a saucepan with enough stock to cover it. When it boils, add 2 large onions, 2 carrots, \ head of celery, a small blade of mace, a few herbs, peppercorns, a small piece of lemon peel, and parsley, 4 a calf’s head. Stock. 2 large onions. 2 carrots. Celery. Mace.32 DAINTY DINNEKS AND DISHES. and a little salt. Skim well, and simmer gently for to 3 hours. Take it out carefully, remove the bones, and cut into convenient pieces. Pile them high on a dish, garnish with slices of the tongue, a few grilled mushrooms, and slices of hard-boiled egg. Serve with a good brown sauce made with the liquor from the head. CALF’S TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Langue de Veau aux Tomates. Trim and scald the tongue and leave it till cold ; lard it with strips of smoked beef and then simmer it in a stew-pan for 4 hours in stock seasoned with herbs, 2 carrots, 2 onions, and 3 cloves. When done, split the tongue in half, skin it and serve covered with tomato sauce. Sheeps' tongues can be cooked in the same wry. BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN OR VEAL. Blanquette de Volatile. Cold cooked poultry or veal. 1 handful fresh, well cleaned button mushrooms. 2 gills veal gravy. 1 oz. clarified veal fat. Lemon juice and peel. Pepper and salt. A lump of white sugar. Grate of nutmeg. 2 yolks of eggs. Cut the veal or poultry into thin pieces the size of shillings and half-crowns, lay them in a small saucepan with the mush- rooms, pour over enough veal gravy to cover them, add the veal fat, flavour with a piece of lemon peel, season to taste, add a small lump of white sugar and a grate of nutmeg. Stew all together for 15 minutes, then pour over a sauce prepared in a separate saucepan, made with veal gravy, a little lemon jnice and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Let it simmer for 2 minutes, and then serve it up in the centre of a dish, prepared with a wall of mashed potato. CHAUDFROID OF CHICKEN. 1 cold boiled fowl. 2 oz. clarified fat. Chaudfrokl de Volatile. 2 tablespoonsful aspic jelly. Salt, pepper. 14 oz. flour. Salad. 1 pint white stock. Mayonnaise sauce. Cut the fowl into neat joints, and remove the skin. Melt the dripping, stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir till it boils and thickens, add salt and pepper. Turn the sauce intoENTREES 33 a basin, add the jelly and stir till quite cold. Coat the pieces of fowl with it, and dish up on a bed of salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce. FRIED CHICKEN. Future de Poulet. Cut a cold chicken into neat pieces and marinade them for an hour in salad oil seasoned with slices of lemon, a small piece of shallot, and a little salt and pepper. Drain them from the marinade, and either sprinkle them with Hour or dip them in frying batter and fry till a golden brown. Dish them high in the centre of a dish, serve with tomato sauce, and decorate with fried parsley. STEWED CHICKEN AND RICE. 1 pint of rice. 1 quart stock. 1 onion stuck with cloves 1 bunch of sweet herbs. Poulet au vis. 1 chicken. 4 egg yolks. 1 lemon, A pinch of saffron. Stew the rice in the stock, and when it begins to swell, add the onion, herbs, saffron, and the chicken. Stew the latter with the rice, etc., till well done, then remove it, and stir the egg yolks and lemon juice into the rice. Serve all together in a very hot dish. CHICKEN A LA SUISSE. Poulet d la Suisse. Juice of 1 lemon. Pepper and salt. Frying batter. Frying fat or oil. Cold chicken. Salad oil. Finely chopped parsley and onion. Cut the remains of a cold chicken into joints. Make a marinade in a pie-dish with salad oil, lemon juice, a little finely chopped onion and parsley, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay the pieces of chicken in this mixture and turn them oc- casionally. Make a batter with 2 tablespoonsful of flour, one of water, 1 yolk of egg, and ^ a wineglassful of brandy. Let this batter rest for an hour in a warm place, then stir in quickly the stiffly beaten white of egg, dip the pieces of chicken in the batter, fry at once in boiling fat or oil till a golden colour, drain on kitchen paper, pile high on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley.34 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. TARTLETS OF CHICKEN. Quenelles tie Volatile. Quenelle meat (page 40). 4 cooked chicken. 4 pint white sauce. 2 oz. lean smoked beef. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Chop the chicken finely with the smoked beef and seasoning. Make some white sauce, and when it has boiled and thickened, add the chicken mixture to it, and then turn on to a plate to cool. Grease some deep tartlet tins, line them thickly with qnenelle meat, make a hollow and fill it with the chicken mixture, and cover with quenelle meat. Steam them for 10 minutes, and serve on a bed of hot mashed potato. Strain white sauce over them. CHICKEN TIMBALE. Timbale tie Poulet a la Pompadour. 4 lb. macaroni. 1 chicken. 2 eggs. Mushroom or tomato sauce. 2^ oz. flour. 2 oz. clarified dripping. 1 gill stock from the chicken. Parboil the macaroni, and cut it up into \ inch lengths. Grease a cake tin or basin, and line it with the cut macaroni in honeycomb fashion. Boil the fowl, cut off all the flesh and pound it in a mortar. Make a panada of the flour, dripping, stock, salt and pepper, stirring all over the fire till well blended. Pound it with the chicken, add the eggs, well beaten, and when well mixed rub it through a wire sieve. Fill the lined basin J full with this mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam f of an hour. Servo hot with mushroom or tomato sauce. This timbale can also be made in little dariole moulds. Pastry. 2 tablespoonsful stocl- gravy. CROQUETTES. 4 oz. cold meat. 1 tcaspoonful flour. or oz. dripping. Melt the dripping, stir in the flour, add the gravy, and boil together, stirring till it boils. Season well, and turn out on to a plate to cool. Add the finely chopped meat, and put a little into a thinly rolled round of pastry. Fold over after egging the dip into broken vermicelli, and fry edge, brush over with in boiling fat or oil.35 ENTREES. CROQUETTES A LTMPERATRICE. Cold potatoes. Dripping, oil. 2 eggs. White meat of a chicken. 2 oz. mushrooms. Lemon juice. 1 oz. flour. ^ pint white stock. Mash the potatoes, add 1 egg, a little melted dripping, salt and pepper. Oil some small moulds or patty pans, and press the potato into them. Turn out, brush over with egg yolk and fry a golden yellow in oil. Drain, scoop out the centre of each, and fill with the following mixture, which must be hot and ready:—Pound the chicken finely, add salt and pepper, finely chopped mushrooms, lemon juice, flour and white stock. Warm all thoroughly, and fill the potato cases. They can bo decorated with a slice of tongue as a cover, and a little chopped jelly. Serve very quickly. Cold meat. Cold boiled rice. 2 hard-boiled yolks 2 raw yolks. Salt. Castor sugar. COLD CURRY. Chaudfrold de Karl. | shallot. | pint salad oil. H tablespoonsful Cook’s curry paste. 2 teaspoonsful curry powder. Juice of A lemon. Rub the egg yolks through a hair-sieve, and add a little salt and castor sugar, and finely chopped shallot. Stir it always the same way, adding the oil gradually. Mix in the curry powder and the curry paste very smoothly, and add the lemon juice. Cut the cold meat into dice, toss it in the sauce, and serve in the centre of a dish, piling cold boiled rice in a tall ring round it. Half the rice may be coloured pink, and served in alternate stripes. EGG FRITTERS. 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. dripping, lb. sausage meat. Belgnets aux Qdufs. Frying batter. Frying fat. Seasoning. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in half lengthways, remove the yolks, and mix them with the sausage meat, dripping and seasoning. Fill the whites with the mixture, and cut them into quarters. Dip each piece into a thick batter, and fry a golden colour. Serve very hot. T, 23G DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. SAVOURY EGGS. Cold meat. Parsley. Sweet herbs. CEufs a la Concorde. ^ oz. flour. 4 eggs. Claritied fat. Mince the cold meat finely with some parsley, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and 5 oz. flour. Mix it all well together (using a little stock if too dry), and press it all over some small moulds. Drop an egg into each mould, put a little dripping or clarified fat on the top, and bake or steam for 10 minutes. Turn out of the moulds and serve. EPIGRAMMES. Noisettes de Mouton. The rib part of mutton cutlets. I egg. Breadcrumbs. Frying fat. Mashed potatoes. Peas or mixed vegetables. Tomato sauce (see page 86). Remove some of the fat from the meat, boil it till the bones can be pulled out, press between two dishes, cut in squares, and egg and breadcrumb them twice. Fry in smoking hot fat about 4 minutes, dish on a border of mashed potato, pour tomato sauce round, put cooked peas or other vegetables in the centre. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH HORSERADISH SAUCE. Filets de Ban/ au Baifort. 1 lb. fillet of beef. lb. suet. I oz. flour. ^ oz. dripping. | pint white stock. 2 yolks of eggs. £ teaspoonful made mustard. Lemon iuice. Salt. Horseradish. Cut the beef into neat fillets, and the suet into thin pieces of the same size ; fry them quickly and dish on a hot dish alter- nately beef and pieces of fat. Melt the dripping, stir in the flour, add the mustard, lemon juice, stock, and salt. Boil up, add the yolks, and sufficient grated horseradish to make it thick. Pour this in the centre of the fillets, sprinkle them with shredded horseradish and serve.37 ENTREES. FILLETS OF BEEF A LA JARDINIERE. Filets de Baud' d la Jardiniere. 2 lbs. fillet of beef. 2 oz. clarified fat. ^ pint stock. $ oz. glaze. Pepper, salt. 1 teaspoonful flour. Carrots. Turnips. Peas or parsnips. Small onions. Cut the meat into neat fillets, allowing a small piece of fat to each, fry them very quickly, and arrange round a dish. Melt ^ oz. of the fat, stir in the flour, ^ oz. of glaze, the stock, season with pepper and salt, boil for 5 minutes, and strain over the fillets. Divide the vegetables into pieces the size and shape of a small olive, and boil all in separate saucepans till tender; drain them, and put them all into a pan with a little clarified fat and \ oz. of glaze. Shake them till the glaze is dissolved, and dish them in the centre of the fillets. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH OLIVES. Tournedos aux Olives. A marinade of :—2 table- spoonsful oil, 2 table- spoonsful vinegar, 1 slice onion, 1 pinch sweet herbs, and a little grated lemon peel. H lbs. undercut of sirloin. 1 tablespoonful salad oil. ^ gill good stock or gravy. 1 squeeze of lemon juice. 8 or 10 Spanish olives. Cayenne. Mashed potatoes. Cut the meat into pieces § inch thick and 2^ inches long; marinade them and leave for 1 hour, turning occasionally; take them out, drain carefully, and remove all moisture. Place one tablespoonful salad oil in a clean stew-pan, and as soon as it boils dust the fillets with black pepper and a little salt, and fry for 10 or 12 minutes, turning them occasionally. When done, dish on a hot dish, pour away the grease, but not the gravy, add to the latter the stock or gravy, lemon juice, cayenne, and the peel from 8 or 10 Spanish olives; bring gently to the boil, re- move any scum, and then boil up sharply to reduce the sauce a little; pour it round the fillets, fill the centre of dish with potato and serve. GIBLET RISOTTO. Risotto. 2 pints second stock. Ciblels. 1 breakfast-cupful of rice. 2 oz. clarified dripping. 5 pint tomato puree. Boil the cleaned giblets and the rice in hot stock for about38 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 20 minutes. Then add the dripping, melted, and the tomato puree, mix well together, and boil up. Serve it at once or the rice will be sticky. GIBLET STEW. Wash two sets of giblets well, put them on in cold water or stock, simmer them for 4 or 5 hours, or till tender. Season to taste, thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot, colour it with a little browning, flavour with mushrooms, lemon juice, and a glass of white wine. Add some forcemeat balls a few minutes before serving, and garnish with thin slices of hard- boiled eggs. KIDNEYS AND TOMATOES. Rognons aux Tomates. G sheep’s kidneys. 2 055. dripping. A little onion. Throw G sheep’s kidneys into 1 h lbs. tomatoes. £ pint of stock. Mashed potatoes, joiling water for a few minutes; skin them, split them open, season with pepper and salt, fry them in two ounces of dripping. Slice a pound and a half of tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with a small piece of onion, £ pint of stock, salt and pepper, and let all simmer for 15 minutes, then add the kidneys, and dish in a ring of mashed potato. MUSHROOM PATTIES. Bond ices aux Champignons. Puff pastry. 1 oz. clarified dripping. | lb. mushrooms. 1 teaspoooful grated lemon peel. 1 shallot. 1 oz. Hour. Rake in a sharp oven some little puff pastry cases and fill with the following:—Wash, dry and peel the mushrooms, and chop them very finely. Rub a stew-pan with a shallot, melt the dripping, add the mushrooms, cover, and let them stew in their own juice for 10 minutes. Flavour with salt, cayenne, and grated lemon peel. Thicken with flour, and leave till cool. Then fill the patties, re-heat, and serve immediately. MUTTON CUTLETS A LTTALIENNE. Cotelettes a Vltalienne. Cut off cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, trim them, and remove all superfluous fat. Make a seasoning of39 ENTREES. finely chopped button mushrooms, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, a sprinkling of mixed herbs, a little shredded shallot, and a grate of lemon peel. Dip the cutlets in egg, then mask them with the mixture, dip them in egg and breadcrumb, and fry them. Drain them on kitchen paper, place them on a hot dish round a mound of mashed potato, and pour a well flavoured brown gravy round them. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA REFORME. Cotelettes de Moulon a la Reforme. 4 gill red wine. 1 dessertspoonful red currant jelly. £ lb. mushrooms. ^ pint brown sauce. A small piece of glaze. 4 lbs. best end neck of mutton. 2 eggs. Breadcrumbs. Shallot. Parsley. 2 oz. clarified fat. Cook the wine, red currant jelly and half the mushrooms, finely chopped, together for a few minutes. Add the brown sauce and glaze, and cook slowly half an hour to reduce it. Cut tho meat into neat cutlets, and dip them into the following mixture : —Beat the eggs on a plate with some chopped cooked mushroom, finely minced shallot and parsley. Then breadcrumb the cutlets and fry in hot clarified fat as quickly as possible, turning them with a knife to avoid pricking them. Drain on kitchen paper and serve on a small ring of mashed potato, in tho centre of which the sauce is poured. Garnish with little heaps of shredded vegetables, etc., using for this purpose—carrot, turnip, gherkin, truffles, mushrooms, hard-boiled white of egg, and lean tongue. Serve very hot. BRAISED OX PALATES. 2 ox palates. 1 oz. dripping. 1 sliced onion. 2 tomatoes. Palais de Bceuf Braise. Herbs and a few peppercorns. | pint good stock. 1 wineglass of sherry. Mashed potato. A little sliced carrot, celery, turnip. Cleanse and blanch the ox palates, and press them till quite flat between 2 plates with a weight on top. Put the dripping in a clean saucepan, and add the sliced vegetables, except tho tomatoes. Add the herbs and seasoning and place the palates on top of the vegetables. Cover with a greased paper, then cover the pan and fry for about £ hour. Now add the stock, and place the pan in the oven. Baste the palates continually and add40 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. more stock if required. Braise them for 5 to 6 hours. When cooked, stamp them out in small rounds, place them in a saute- pan with the sherry, and put it on the stove till all the moisture is absorbed. Glaze them lightly and dish them on a border of potatoes, with a slice of cooked tomato between each. Strain the gravy, remove the fat, and pour the gravy round the dish. SLICED OX TONGUE A LA MONACO. Langue de Bceuf d la Monaco. Thin slices of cooked ox tongue. 1 gill stock. 1 tablespoonful sherry. Crofttons of fried bread. Puree of fresh mushrooms. 4 pint brown sauce. £ oz. glaze. 1 teaspoonful English mustard. 1 teaspoonful French mustard. Slices of marrow. Stamp the slices of ox tongue out in rounds, heat them in the stock which has been flavoured with the sherry. Spread the mushroom puree on the croutons, place a round of tongue on each, then a slice of marrow, prepared as below’. Add the browrn sauce to the liquor in which the tongue was warmed, add the glaze, boil up, add the mustards, pass through a tammy, and serve very hot round the croutons. Do not let the sauce boil after adding mustard, or it will curdle. Blanched and devilled marrow: Blanch the marrow and cut it in slices \ inch thick, mask it wflth devil paste made by mixing a teaspoonful French mustard, a saltspoonful of English mustard, a dessertspoonful chopped chutney, a dust of cayenne, a little salt and pepper. Sprinkle the marrow wflth browned bread- crumbs, bake in a quick oven for 5 minutes. STEWED OX TONGUE. SAUCE PIQUANTE. Langue de BceufSauce Piquante. 1 ox tongue slightly salted. 1 onion. Spices. 2 oz. clarified dripping. 2 tablespoonsful flour. 2 oz. sultanas. 1 glass port wine. Boil the ox tongue in plenty of water, adding the onion and spices to the water. When well cooked, take it. out and remove the skin when cold. The next day, take the fat off the liquor. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, browrn the flour in it, and add to it about $ pint of the liquor in which the tongue was boiled. Add the sultanas and wine to the sauce, and browning if necessary. Stir while it comes to the boil, add the tongue cut in slices, and let all simmer about 10 minutes. Serve garnished with fried crescents of bread.41 entrees. OX TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. Lcinniie de Bccvf Sauce Tomate. 1 fresh ox tongue. 1 large onion. A handful parsley. Sweet herbs. 1 blade mace. 1 teaspoonful pepper. 1 oarrot. 5 cloves. Bay leaves. 1 tablespoonful salt. Trim the root of the tongue and rub it well with salt. Soak the tongue at least 1 hour in strongly salted water. Put it in a stew-pan with the sliced vegetables, herbs, spices, salt and pepper, and sufficient cold water to cover all well. Skim well as it comes to the boil, and simmer for 3 to 4 hours. Place it on a board, remove the skin, and put the tongue on a hot dish. Brush it over with glaze, and pour hot tomato sauce round it. Serve hot. STEWED PIGEONS. Pigeons 1 pair pigeons. 2 shallots. 2 oz. clarified dripping. 1 oz. flour. Sautes. Pepper and salt. 4 pint brown sauce, j pint tomato sauce. A few mushrooms and olives. Mince the shallots and fry them in the dripping. Bake the pigeons for 10 minutes in a quick oven and baste well; then cut them into neat joints. Dredge the pieces with flour and fry them with the shallots. Pour off any extra dripping, add the brown sauce, the tomato sauce, and the prepared mushrooms and stoned olives. Stew gently for 4 hour. Arrange the pigeons, mush- rooms and olives on a dish, strain the sauce over, and serve hot. POTATO CUPS WITH BRAINS. Petits Pates aux Cervelles. Peel some good-sized potatoes, wash them well and cut them across the middle, trimming all the halves to the same oval shape. About 4 of an inch from the edge cut round with a pointed knife and remove the inside of the potato with a vegetable scoop. The cups should now be about 4 of an inch thick. As each cup is made, put it into cold water with a little salt to preserve the colour till wanted. Rub each one with a dry clean cloth, put them into boiling fat or oil for 3 or 4 minutes, remove them, let the fat boil again, and just before serving, drop the cases in the boiling fat to get crisp, drain them, and arrange42 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. on each cup a slice of blanched hot calf’s or sheep’s brains and a slice of cooked tomato; in the middle of each cup put a tea- spoonful of tarragon sauce, sprinkle over a few long, thin strips of gherkin and serve hot. STEWED SHEEP’S TONGUES. 4 sheep’s tongues. £ pint clear stock. I onion. 1 carrot. 3 cloves. Lanrjues de Moutons. 3 allspice. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 dessertspoonfid flour. 1 dessertspoonful brown sugar. 1 dessertspoonful vinegar. A little browming. Simmer the tongues in enough water to cover them, for about 2^ hours or till tender enough to skin. Place in a saucepan the stock, chopped onion, carrot, pepper, salt and spice, then put in the skinned tongues. Bring all to the boil and add a few meat balls if liked. When the carrot is tender, remove the tongues, halls and carrot, and strain the liquor, ltub the flour, sugar, vinegar and browning together till smooth, stir it into the liquor over the fire till cooked, re-heat the tongues, balls, and carrot cut in strips, in the liquor, and serve on a hot dish with the tongues in the middle, balls and carrot alternately round. STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. Ocjnons Farcis. Choose G Spanish onions of equal size. Skin them and parboil them for about 1 hour. Pull out the centre of each onion, and fill with the following stuffing:—5 lb. raw liver and 1 oz. under- done meat, minced, pounded and rubbed through a sieve with pepper, salt and a little chopped shallot. Fill up the insides of the onions, and cover with the piece removed, tying them round. Put 2 oz. clarified dripping, and \ pint stock on a baking tin, place the stuffed onions on it, and bake f to 1 hour, according to the size of the onions, basting them frequently. Serve with the gravy strained over them, which has been thickened with a little flour, and coloured with browning. FRIED SWEETBREADS. Ris de Veau a la Villeroi. Cut 2 cooked (boiled and pressed) sweetbreads into \ inch thick slices, and coat them with cold Bechamel sauce. When set,43 ENTKEES. dip them into a light frying batter, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. Drain them and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato or piquante sauce. STEWED SWEETBREADS. His de Veau aux Tomates. 2 sweetbreads. £ lb. tomatoes, f pint good brown sauce. Spinach. Water or white stock. Soak the sweetbreads in tepid salted water for 1 hour, then put on the fire in cold water, boil up and strain off the water. Put them on again in fresh water or white stock and simmer gently for 1 hour; drain and press them between 2 plates with a weight on top. Trim neatly and cut into thick slices. Put them in a stew-pan with the brown sauce and heat well. Skin the tomatoes and bake till tender, but unbroken. Dish the sweetbreads on spinach, pour the sauce over and round, and garnish with the tomatoes. COLD TOMATO ENTREE. Tomates d la Heine. Cut off the top of egg shaped tomatoes, and remove the seeds with a spoon. Make a stuffing of chopped anchovy, yolk of egg, olives and mustard and cress, and fill up the tomatoes with it, covering with the top piece. Serve in an entree dish on slices of hard-boiled egg, garnish with mustard and cress, and pile plovers’ eggs in the centre. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. Blanquctte de Veau. 2 lbs. breast, loin, or fillet of veal. 1 pint white stock. 1 small carrot sliced. 1 onion stuck with cloves. Celery or celery seed Parsley, lemon peel, and a bouquet garni. Cut the meat into pieces 2 inches square and stew gently in the stock with the vegetables for 2 hours. Skim it when it first boils. When done, put the meat on a dish and strain the liquor for the Sauce, for which stir together 2 oz. clarified fat, 5 oz. flour, and ^ oz. cornflour till well blended, add the stock and beat well. Allow it to cool and add 3 yolks of eggs, stir, warm, and pour over the meat, garnishing with chopped parsley.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 44 VEAL CUTLETS A LA MILANESE. Cotelettes de Veau a la M'danaise. 1 lb. veal cutlets. 1 clove garlic. 2 shallots. \ lb. macaroni. 2 tublespoonsful tomato sauce. 2 oz. clarified fat. Cut the veal into neat cutlets, and put them in a stew-pan with the shallots, garlic and fat. When browned, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let all cook slowly for 4 hour. Take out the cutlets, add the tomato sauce, and simmer till reduced. Return the cutlets to the stew-pan, and stew j hour. Serve in a ring of boiled macaroni. SAVOURY VEAL CUTLETS. ^ lb. cold veal. 2 oz. smoked beef. 2 oz. veal dripping. 4 oz. flour. 4 pint good white stock. I teaspoonful made mus- tard. ^ teaspoonful gravy spice (see page 81). 1 pinch of nutmeg. 1 pinch of cayenne. Strained juice of half a lemon. Pepper and salt to taste. Mashed potatoes. 2 boned and pounded anchovies. Melt the dripping in a clean saucepan, stir in the flour, make into a smooth paste; add the stock and boil till it leaves the sides of the saucepan clean, then add the veal and smoked beef pounded, and all the other ingredients. Stir all well over a gentle fire, turn the mixture on to a flat dish to get cold, then shape it into cutlets. Dip them in egg and breadcrumb, and fry till a golden brown in boiling fat or oil. Drain on kitchen paper and dish round a mound of mashed potato. VEAL CUTLETS A LA VENITIENNE. C6telett.es de Veau a la Venitienne. 2 lbs. veal cutlet. Sausage-meat. Grated tongim. Truffles. A pint good brown sauce. (ilierkins. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Cut 2 lbs. of veal cutlet into rounds the size of a five-shilling piece, braise them and press them between two plates. Make a farce of sausage-meat, grated tongue and minced truffles, or pound some cooked calf’s liver and flavour it well. Spread some45 ENTREES. 1. —GATEAU OF VEAL. {Page 46.) 2. —POTATO CROQUETTES. (Page 68.) 3. — COLD TOMATO ENTREE. (Page 43.) 4. —VOL-AU-VENT OF FISH. (Page 21.)DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 46 of the mixture on one side of each cutlet, heat some good brown sauce in a stew-pan, lay the cutlets in gently and let them get hot through. Arrange them on a hot dish in a circle, strain the brown sauce round them and fill the centre with strips of tongue or smoked beef, gherkins, and hard-boiled white of egg. GATEAU OF VEAL. Gateau ch Veaa. 2 lbs. neck of veal. 1 pint stock or watr. 4 lb. lean smoked beef. Grated lemon peel. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Salt and pepper to taste. 1 hard-boiled egg. Chopped aspic. Beetroot. Cut up the veal, let it simmer gently in the stock or water till tender, remove the meat and boil the bones in the stock for 1^ hours. Cut the smoked beef up into dice, mix it with the meat, seasoning, parsley and lemon rind. Cut up the egg, decorate the bottom of a plain mould with it, put in the meat, skim the fat off the stock, season it and pour it over the meat. Cover with a greased paper, bake in a slow oven for \ an hour ; let it get cold. Turn out and decorate with chopped aspic and beetroot (see illustration, page 45). QUENELLES OF VEAL. Quenelles de Veau. 1 lb. fillet of veal. 1 oz. dripping. 2 oz. flour. ^ pint white stock. £ pint white sauce. 2 eggs. Salt and cayenne pepper. Make a panada by melting the dripping, adding the flour, and stirring in the stock when well mixed. Turn out on a plate to cool. Remove all fat from the veal, and pass it twice through a mincing machine, add the panada and seasoning, and pound all well together in a mortar. Mix 1 egg into it, beat all together, add another egg, mix well and rub through a wire sieve. Grease some little tins, fill them nearly to the top, cover with paper, and stand them in a saucepan, with boiling water to reach half-way up the little tins. Steam for a \ hour, and serve with white sauce round them. The quenelles can also be shaped with two spoons, and cooked by throwing them into boiling white stock for 10 minutes, thus poaching them.47 ENTREES. TOURNEDOS OF VEAL. Tournedos de Veau. lj lbs. veal cutlet. \ lb. smoked beef. 2 onions. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. Herbs. 1 pint stock. Tomato sauce, croutons. Cut the veal about 1 inch thick and 3 inches long, and lard closely with smoked beef. Slice the vegetables and arrange them with some slices of smoked beef at the bottom of the stew-pan, let them cook a few minutes, and then cover them with the stock. Lay the veal on them, cover with greased paper and close the pan. Let it simmer till tender, adding more stock if required. Place the tournedos on a baking sheet in the oven to crisp the lardoons, dish them on fried croutons, brush over with glaze, and serve with tomato sauce. Cut the beef into neat fillets, heat the dripping in a saute-pan, put the fillets in, let them cook for about 6 minutes. Make a sauce by heating the Worcester sauce, gravy, chopped egg and pickles together. On a hot dish arrange a mound of mashed potato, place the fillets on this and pour the sauce carefully round the base of the potato-mound. VENETIAN STEAKS. BifteJi'S d la Venitienne. 1 lb. fillet of beef. 1 oz. dripping. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tablespoonful mixed pickles. 1 tablespoonful Worcester sauce Mashed potato. 1 tablespoonful good gravy or stock.MEATS »<a» ■ - - BRAISED BEEF A LESPAGNOLE. Bccuf Braise a VEspagnole. 4 lbs. brisket or aitcli bone. 1 lb. carrots. 1 lb. onions. 1 lb. turnips. 1 lb. leeks. 2 oz. Scotch oatmeal. Pepper, salt. 1 blade mace. Sweet herbs. 2 bay leaves. 2 quarts water or beef brotb. Slice and mix all the vegetables; lay half of them in a stew- pan. Roll the meat in the oatmeal, season with pepper and salt, and place it on the vegetables. Cover with the rest of the vege- tables, and pour over the water or beef broth, allowing enough to cover, and about 1 quart over. Close the pan, boil up slowly, skim, and cover tip well again, and let it simmer for 4 hours. Serve the meat in the centre of a hot dish, and garnish with the vegetables. Remove the fat from the liquor, and pour the latter round the meat and vegetables. FILLET OF BEEF A LA LOUIS XV. Filet de Bccuf ci la Louis XV. 4 or 5 lbs. fillet. Smoked beef for larding. 1 wineglass sberry. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion, all sliced. 1 tablespoonful dripping. 1 pint thin brown sauce. Croustade of bread. Glaze. Fried potatoes. Trim the fillet neatly, and remove the fat and sinews. Lard it lengthways with the smoked beef, which should consist prin- cipally of fat. Lay it on a baking tin with the sherry, dripping, and prepared vegetables, and bake it in a quick oven for 40 to .50 minutes, basting it constantly. Remove the fillet, pour off the fat left in the tin, and add the brown sauce. Let it simmer for a fetv minutes, then skim and strain it. Serve the fillet on a fried croustade, and glaze it with dissolved glaze. Garnish the dish with hot fried potatoes, and serve the sauce separately.MEATS. 49 ROAST FILLET OF BEEF. Filet de Bceuf en Matelote. Fillet of beef. Smoked beef. Braised ox palates (page 39). Cooked tongue. Madeira sauce (see page 82). Blanched beef marrow. Braised olives. Truffles. Mushrooms. Trim the fillet by removing all skin and rough fat, tie the fillet up, brush over with salad oil, place a piece of fat smoked beef over it, and wrap it in an oiled paper. If the fillet weighs 2^ lbs., roast it for 1 hour, basting it well, then remove the paper, cut the fillet crossways into neat slices, without removing them from each other, and place them carefully on a hot dish. Decorate with braised ox palates (see page 39) and slices of cooked ox tongue cut in small rounds with a cutter, slices of blanched beef marrow, braised olives, slices of truffles, and mushrooms. Pour over the fillet some boiling hot Madeira sauce (see page 82). SPICED BEEF. 10 lbs. brisket of beef. 4 lb. salt. 2 oz. juniper benies. 2 oz. a 2 oz. saltpetre. 2 oz. brown sugar. 2 oz. black pepper, lspicc. Pound all the spices and seasonings together, and rub them well into the meat daily for 4 days, turning the meat well over. Boil the meat gently for 5 hours, and on removing it from the stew-pan, place it between two plates, and press it with heavy weights. Glaze it the next day, when quite cold. This meat will keep good for a fortnight. BOILED SMOKED BEEF. Soak the meat 12 hours ; place it in a stew-pan, cover it with cold water, bring it to the boil, and simmer it 1 hour; then strain off the water, and put the meat back in the pan; cover it with fresh cold water, bring it to the boil, and allow it to simmer, reckoning 1 hour to the pound. Do not let it boil, or it will harden. ROAST NECK OF LAMB. Trim the lamb neatly, skewer it up to retain the shape, tie a piece of greased paper over, and roast for an hour, basting well. Remove the skewers, glaze the lamb lightly, garnish with braised carrots, and serve hot. EDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 50 LAMB AND SPRUE. Cote d'agneau avec pointes d'cispcrge. 1 neck or breast of lamb. 1 bundle sprue or asparagus. Cilery salt or seed. 1 onion. 1 sprig parsley. Pepper and salt to taste. Place the meat in a stew-pan, cover it with cold water, add the prepared sprue, or asparagus cut in 2 inch lengths, a pinch of celery salt or seed, the onion chopped, sprig of parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Let all simmer till the meat and vegetables are tender ; two lumps of sugar improve the flavour. Remove the meat and A7egetables, reduce the liquor a little, take any fat off, place the meat in the centre of a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and arrange the sprue round. MOCK HARE. i oz. each of ground cloves, mace and nutmeg. 2 oz. salt. ^ oz. black pepper. 5 lbs. loin of niutton. Forcemeat or stuffing, li pint stock. 1 glass port wine. Remove the bones and most of the fat from the loin, and sprinkle it with the spices and seasoning. Wash them off after 24 hours, dry the meat, and cover it with the forcemeat. Roll it tip tightly with tape, place it on a baking dish, and bake for 1 hour, basting it with the stock. Let it cool, remove all the fat from the gravy, thicken it with a little flour, and add the port wine. Place the meat and gravy in a stew-pan, simmer for 1 hour. Serve hot, with the gravy strained over, and hand red currant jelly. MUTTON A L'ALLEMANDE. Moutou d VAllemande. Cold mutton. 1 pint stock, in which 1 shallot, carrot, turnip, celery, and peppercorns have been boiled. £ wineglassful of port wine. 1 dessertspoonful red currant jelly. Toasted sippets. Pickled walnuts. Cut the mutton into thin slices, trim off all skin and fat, and dredge it with flour; lay it in a stew-pan, cover it with the stock, cover the pan, and let it simmer very slowly for 1 hour. Flavour the gravy with the port wine and red currant jelly before serving. Garnish the dish with the toasted sippets and pickled walnuts, and serve very hot.MEATS 51 GRILLED MUTTON. Mouton Grille. Slices from a leg of mutton. 1 shallot. Parsley, bay leaf, thyme. 1 tablespoonful salad oil. Fried potato chips. £ pint piquante sauce (page 84). Cut some 1^ inch thick slices from the thick end of a leg of mutton, season with pepper, salt, chopped shallot, parsley, bay- leaf, thyme, and a little salad oil. Let the meat remain in the seasoning for 1 hour before cooking, then grill or broil the slices for l hour, and dish on a pile of fried potato chips. Serve hot with piquante sauce. BONED LEG OR SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Gigot Farci. Fill up the hole from which the bone has been taken with a good veal stuffing, cut away any extra fat, bind and tie the meat up carefully with tape, and roast or bake as usual, basting con- tinually. Remove the binding when the joint is cooked, and serve with a good thick brown gravy. LEG OF MUTTON A LA DURAND. Gigot a la Durand. 8 lbs. leg of mutton. A seasoning of pepper, salt, mixed herbs, bay leaf, and chopped shallot. 4 oz. clarified dripping. 2 sliced onions. 1 sliced carrot. 1 stick of celery. A bunch of herbs. 5 fresh mushrooms. 2 tomatoes. 1 gill sherry or mushroom liquor. 1 wineglassful claret, f pint good brown gravy or A little glaze. [stock. | pint brown sauce. Bone the leg of mutton, put the seasoning inside, tie the joint into as natural a shape as possible. Put the dripping and vege- tables into a stewr-pan, place the mutton on top, cover with a greased paper, and fry all for ^ hour over a moderate fire. Add the wdne, and lot it simmer till nearly all the liquor has been absorbed, add the gravy or stock, and stand the stew-pan in the oven for 21- hours, basting ■well, and adding more gravy or stock, as required. Remove the string, and glaze the joint with warm glaze; strain the liquor from the pan, let it get cool a little, remove the fat, mix in the brovm sauce,- boil it up, keeping it skimmed, strain it, pour some round the joint, and serve the rest in a tureen.52 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. LEG OF MUTTON WITH TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS. leg of mutton. 8 11)3 1 lb. tomatoes. ^ lb. mushrooms Pepper and salt Gigot Garni. 2 oz. dripping. 1 teaspoonful flour. 1 gill stock or gravy. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Roast or bake the mutton for 2^ to 3 hours, basting -well. Peel and cut the tomatoes in halves, season them, and bake them for about 12 minutes on a tin with 1 oz. dripping, cover with greased paper, and baste occasionally. Prepare the mushrooms, put them in a saucepan with 1 oz. dripping mixed with the flour, pepper, salt, and gravy, cook for ^ hour, then remove, and sprinkle with parsley. Dish the mutton on a hot dish, garnish with tomatoes and mushrooms alternately. Serve with the gravy from the tomatoes and mushrooms. BRAISED LOIN OF MUTTON WITH MUSHROOMS. Longe de Mouton Braised, aux Champignons. 3 lbs. boned loiu of mutton. 1 head of celery. Bunch of sweet herbs. 12 button mushrooms. 1 small turnip. 2 or three cloves. 1 sprig of parsley. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. dripping. Water ; £ gill gravy. Pepper, salt and cayenne to taste. 1 carrot. Rub the meat with salt, pepper, and cayenne, roll it up, and tie with broad tape into a neat roll; cut up the vegetables, lay them at the bottom of a stew-pan with the herbs and parsley; lay tiie mutton on these, 3 parts cover it with water, and simmer slowly lj to 2 hours; then place the mutton in a baking tin with a little gravy, and brown it in a brisk oven; strain the gravy, and skim off the fat; heat the dripping in a saucepan, add the flour, let it brown, add the gravy gradually, pepper, salt, and skinned mushrooms, boil 8 minutes. Dish the mutton with gravy strained over and mushrooms round. SADDLE OF MUTTON A LA BOURGEOISE. Selie de Mouton A small saddle of mutton. Boned anchovies. Smoked beef. Trim all unnecessary fat from a la Bourgeoise. Carrots, turnips, onions and celery Bunch of parsley and herbs. Stock and a little gDze. the saddle, and lard it in alter-MEATS. 5;i nate rows with the anchovies and strips of smoked beef. Put a good layer of the vegetables evenly sliced in a stew-pan, add the parsley and herbs, and lay the mutton on them. Pour in enough stock to cover the vegetables. Put greased paper over the mutton, and stew slowly 2 to 3 hours. Lift it out, and brush it over with melted glaze. Strain the vegetables, and reduce the stock, strain it round the meat, and garnish with the cooked vegetables. MUTTON STEWED WITH CELERY. Mouton aux Celeris. 3 to 4 lbs. best end neck of mutton, or the same weight of fillet from the leg or shoulder. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 heads celery. Seasoning. Forcemeat balls. Yolks of 2 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful flour. Juice of half a lemon. Place the mutton in a stew-pan, cover it with water, prepare and cut up the carrot, turnip, and celery, throw them in, season to taste, and let all stew for 1^ hours. Strain the gravy, pour it back on the meat, return the celery, add the forcemeat balls. Let it stew for another 4 hour. Mix the Hour to a paste with the lemon juice, add a little warm gravy, and beat in the egg yolks; then pour the mixture carefully into the stew-pan, and serve as soon as all is well mixed. MUTTON STEWED WITH LEEKS. Mouton aux Poireaux. Proceed as above, substituting leeks, cut in small pieces, for the celery. ROAST SIRLOIN. Aloyau Hot/. 12 lbs. Sirloin. Dredge the joint well with flour, and unless it is a very fat piece of meat, put little pieces of dripping on it. Roast it before a clear fire, or in a moderate oven, reckoning 20 minutes’ cookiim for each pound, and 20 minutes for dishing up. The meat requires to be put nearer the fire, or in a hotter oven, for the first 10 minutes, and then to be gradually cooked at a steady heat. Baste constantly. When done, dish it up, strain off the tat from the dripping pan, add salt, pepper, a little hot water, and browning, to the brown part of the gravy, and pour it round tne joint. Garnish with bunches of scraped horseradish.54 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. STEAK STEWED WITH CHESTNUTS. Biftelc aux Marrons. Steak. 2 oz. dripping. £ pint beef gravy or stock. 1 lb. chestnuts. ^ pintEspagnole sauce (page 85). Salt and pepper. Drown a good thick steak in beef dripping, flour it, and place it in a stew-pan, cover with good beef gravy, or stock, season with pepper and salt. Let it simmer for ten minutes, then add a pound of chestnuts, peeled, and with the inner skin scraped off. Lot all simmer for \ an hour, and serve with Espagnole sauce. STEAK STEWED WITH TOMATOES. Biftelc aux Tomates. 2 lbs. steak. 1 Spanish onion. 1 lb. tomatoes. Salt and pepper. Cut the tomatoes and onion in slices, and put them in a stew- pan, add salt and pepper. Put in the steak, and cook till it is tender. Hub the tomatoes and onions through a sieve. Return the steak to the saucepan, pour the sauce over it, reheat, and serve. Breast of veal, chopped herbs. Mace, pepper and salt. Slices of cooked beetroot. Remove the bones and gristle COLLARED VEAL. Venn Farci. Smoked tongue or smoked beef. Chopped parsley. Hard-boiled eggs, from a breast of veal, season well with chopped herbs, mace, pepper, and salt. Then lay on this seasoning some slices of smoked tongue or beef, slices of cooked beetroot, chopped parsley, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Roll the meat, sew it up, and bind in shape with tape, which should be removed before serving. Simmer the meat for about 2^ hours in stock, and serve with a good gravy. Or, if pre- ferred cold, lay it between two plates with weights on; when it is a good shape, glaze it, and decorate to taste. BRAISED FILLET OF VEAL. Filet de Veau Braise. 4 to 5 lbs. fillet of veal Inch-long strips of fat 1 carrot. [smoked beef. 1 small turnip. 1 onion. A Lard the top of the veal with the strips of smoked beef, pare the vegetables, place them in a fire-proof pan with Bunch of sweet herbs. Parsley, stock. 2 blades of mace. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 tablespoonful arrowroot. Pre- i lid,MEATS, 55 add the bunch of herbs, parsley, and mace, then put in the larded real, and three parts cover with stock. Cover with a greased paper before putting on the lid. Place in a moderate oven, and let it bo at simmering point for nearly 3 hours. Care- fully lift the meat out, and if not brown enough, put it on a tin in a brisk oven for a short time. Meanwhile prepare the gravy as follows:—Strain the vegetables from the liquor, and take every bit of fat off it, place it in a clean saucepan, add pepper and salt to taste, and the arrowroot rubbed smooth in a little cold water, also add a small quantity of browning, if necessary. Place the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish wdth forcemeat balls and cut lemon. GALANTINE OF VEAL. Galantine de Venn. 4 lbs. boned breast of veal. 1 lb. sausage meat. A few truffles and mush- rooms. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Chopped parsley. Pistachio kernels. Salt and pepper. Chop the truffles, mushrooms, eggs, and Pistachio kernels, mix with the sausage meat and seasoning. Lay this stuffing on the veal, roll it over in bolster shape, sew a cloth round very tightly, and boil 2^ hours in stock. When cooked, press it between two plates with heavy weights, and then glaze and decorate when cold with aspic jelly. WHITE FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Fricandeau de Veau. 5 lbs. breast of veal (boned). Veal stuffing. 1 onion. 1 head of celery. 1 blade of mace. White pepper and salt to taste. Yolks of 4 eggs. Juice of 2 lemons. Strips of smoked beef fat. Lard the veal with the strips of smoked beef fat, stuff it with a good veal stuffing, tie it into shape, and put it in a stew-pan with water sufficient to cover it. Add the peeled onion, mace, celery, and seasoning, and stew gently till the meat is tender (about 2 hours). Skim and strain the gravy, mix the egg yolks and lemon juice smoothly with a little gravy, then stir in the rest, pour over the meat, and garnish with forcemeat balls.POULTRY, GAME, &c BREADCRUMBS FOR POULTRY, GAME, &c. 6 oz. baked and sifted breadcrumbs. 2 oz. clarified dripping. Put the breadcrumbs in a hot tin with the dripping and bake them in a moderate oven, stirring constantly to avoid their burning. Leave them in the oven until the fat is all absorbed and the crumbs are dry and crisp. Turn them on to a paper to drain and use to garnish dish, or serve them separately on a dessert-paper. CHICKEN IN CASSEROLE. Poulet en Casserole. 1 Fowl. 2 heaped tablesj o^nsful clarified dripping. 2 sliced onions. Carrots. Salt and pepper. £ pint stock, lied wine. Mushrooms. Into a suitable sized casserole or marmite place a heaped table- spoonful of clarified dripping, heat it and brown in it 2 sliced onions, add salt and pepper, some carrots cut small, and the fowl covered with good dripping, also a gill of stock or water. Put on the cover and let it stand over the fire till the flesh has begun to colour on one side, turn it over carefully, let the other side brown, add another gill of liquor, cover and put the pan in the oven, letting it stew or simmer for an hour or more, accord- ing to size and age of the bird. About £ hour before serving add a little red wine and some mushrooms cut in pieces. Dish up the fowl, remove the fat from the gravy, and pour it over fowl and vegetables. If the fowl is served in the dish in which it was cooked, cut it up before cooking and tie it together again with string. ROAST CHICKEN WITH WATERCRESS. Poulet lloti. Have a fowl trussed for roasting, rub it over with clarified fat and roast it in front of a brisk clear fire, or bake it in thePOULTRY, GAME, &c. 57 oven for 30 minutes. Remove any string and skewers, place it on a hot dish and garnish with watercress that has been picked clean and the water shaken from it and then dipped in a mixture of salad oil, tarragon vinegar and salt. Serve with gravy and bread sauce (page 78). Capons are cooked in the same manner, allowing longer time for roasting, according to size. ROAST DUCK. APPLE SAUCE. Canard Hoti. Have a duck trussed for roasting, stuff it with sage and onions, rub it well with clarified fat and roast before a clear fire for 30 minutes, basting well all the time. Garnish with compote of apples, made as follows:—Peel a pound of apples, cut them in small pieces, quarter shapes, trim them round and boil them in syrup till they are spongy, but not broken. SALMIS OF DUCK. Salmi de Canard. 1 roasted stuffed duck or cold Brown stock. [duck. Stoned olives. 1 onion. Fried croutons. 2 sprigs of mint. 1 lump of sugar. H pints shelled peas. Cut the duck into joints and slices, and put the bones and carcase into the brown stock. Add the sliced onion, mint, sugar and the duck, and simmer all for h hour. Boil the peas with a sprig of mint, and add them to the duck 10 minutes before serving. Place the duck in the centre of a hot dish, pour the gravy and peas round, and decorate with fried croutons, the cut up stuffing and stoned olives. BOILED FOWL WITH SAUCE. Poidct Bouilli. 1 fowl. 1 slice smoked beef. 1 lemon. Salt. 1 onion stuck with cloves. 1 onion sliced. 1 bunch of herbs. A few peppercorns. White sauce (page 87). Have a fowl trussed for boiling, place a piece of fat smoked beef on the breast, and rub the fowl over with lemon juice. Put it in a stew-pan with enough boiling water to cover it, an onionDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 58 stuck with cloves and a sliced onion, a bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Let it simmer gently on the side of the stove for or 1^ hours, place on a hot dish, remove the strings and skewers and pour a good white sauce over it. CURRIED FOWL. Karl de Poulct. 1 fowl (or cold chicken). 2 onions. 3 apples. [der. 2 tablespoonsful curry pow- 1 tablespoonful flour. 2 oz. dripping. Worcester sauce. Rice. Cut the fowl into small pieces, place it in cold water, and stew it gently until tender. (Or cut up the cold chicken.) Melt the dripping, fry the cut up onions, add the apples, finely chopped. When all is browned, add the curry powder, flour and AVorcester sauce, stir well over the fire, and then add the fowl and some of the liquor. Let it simmer by the side of the fire. Serve in a border of boiled rice. DARIOLES OF POULTRY OR GAME. 6 oz. minced game or poultry. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 tablespoonful breadcrumbs. Chopped tongue. Truffles and mushroom. Salt and pepper. Brown sauce (page 78). A little wine and red currant jelly. A\rell grease 8 small dariole moulds, and sprinkle 4 with 1 egg. the chopped tongue, and 4 with the truffles or mushroom. Mix the other ingredients well together, season it, and fill the lined moulds. Cover with greased paper and steam for 15 to 20 minutes. Serve with brown sauce, flavoured with red currant jelly and a little wine. GIBLET PIE. Prepare the giblets in the same way as for r/iblct stew, place them in a pie-dish, let them get cold, cover with puff pastry, and proceed as for pigeon pie. ROAST GOOSE. APPLE SAUCE. Ole Rdtie. 1 goose. Clarified fat. Sage and onions (page GO). Brown sauce. Apple sauce (page 77). Have a goose trussed for roasting, stuff it with sage and59 POULTRY, GAME, &c. onions, and fasten it up with a skewer or string; rub it well over with clarified fat, wrap it in a greased paper and put it to roast or bake for f hour or more, according to size. Place it on a hot dish, remove the paper, skewers and strings, and serve with some thin brown sauce and compote of apples or apple sauce. ROAST PHEASANT WITH WATERCRESS. Faiscin Jluti. The birds should hang in a cold, dry and airy place about 4 days. Truss them for roasting, tie a piece of fat smoked beef over the breast and roast in front of a quick fire for 20 minutes, basting thoroughly the whole time, but specially at the begin- ning. Serve on croutons, garnish with watercress and browned breadcrumbs, hand bread sauce, and gravy prepared from game bones. ROAST BORDEAUX PIGEONS. Pigeons Itotis. Have the birds trussed for roasting, place a piece of fat smoked beef on the breast of each and roast for 15 minutes, basting frequently. Remove the strings and skewers and the smoked beef and brown the birds in front of the fire, replace the smoked beef and dish each bird on a fried crouton, garnish with watercress and serve with Espagnole or piquante sauce. ROAST QUAILS. Cadies Euties. Quails are cooked in the same way, only thejr need not be roasted quite so long. PIGEON AND BEEFSTEAK PIE. 4 pigeons. 1 lb. fillet of beef or rump steak. A seasoning of chopped bay leaf and shallot. Thyme. Parsley. Cut each pigeon into 4 pieces, cut the meat in little square pieces, put all into a greased saute-pan wTith the seasoning, and Salt and pepper. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 pint good gravy. 4 hard-boiled eggs. } lb. button mushrooms. Puff pastry. 1 egg.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. GO fry for 10 minutes. Mix in the flour, put all in a pie-dish, fill up with gravy and garnish with hard-boiled eggs and button mushrooms. Cover with puff paste, glaze with whole beaten up egg, decorate with pastry leaves, and the pigeon’s feet, make a hole in middle and bake in a moderate oven for 2 hours. PIGEONS IN CASSEROLE. Prepared in exactly the same way as chickens, but will not take quite so long to cook. SAGE AND ONION STUFFING. i lb. onions. 1 dessertspoonful sage. Salt ano 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs. 1 oz. suet, pepper. Scald the onions by placing them in boiling water for 5 minutes, chop them finely, mix them with the breadcrumbs, sage, chopped suet, pepper and salt. BOILED TURKEY. Dinclon ciu Celeri. 1 small turkey. 2 heads celery. 1 lb. sausage-meat. 1 breakfastcupful bread- crumbs. 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. Nutmeg, mace, cloves. A few slices fat smoked beef. 1 lemon. 1 leek. 2 onions. 1 carrot. Stock. Prepare the celery stuffing as follows:—Stew one head of celery till tender, and chop it finely. Add the sausage-meat, breadcrumbs, parsley, pepper and salt and a grate of nutmeg. Stuff the turkey’s crop with this farce, and cover the breast with the slices of smoked beef, after having rubbed the bird with a slice of lemon. Wrap it in a piece of well floured muslin and place it in a stew-pan with 2 onions (one stuck with cloves), the leek, and a head of celery cut into lengths and tied up together, a carrot and a blade of mace. Cover it with hot stock, let it boil up, skim it, and then simmer it gently for 2 hours. Serve with celery sauce (page 79).G1 POULTRY, GAME, &c. ROAST TURKEY.—CHESTNUT STUFFING. Dincle Rotie Farcie. 1 turkey. 1 lb. chestnuts. Stock. 1 oz. clarified dripping. Smoked beef. Salt and pepper. 2 oz. breadcrumbs. 2 egg yolks. A lemon. Blanch and peel 1 lb. of chestnuts, boil them for about 20 minutes or till tender in good stock, then pound them in a mortar with the liver of the bird and a tablespoonful of finely minced smoked beef, the breadcrumbs, 1 oz. clarified dripping, the yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Have a turkey trussed for roasting, stuff the body of the bird with ordinary veal stuffing and the crop with the above chestnut stuffing. Cover the breast of the bird with thin slices of fat smoked beef and roast about 1| hours for a medium-sized bird, keeping it well basted. ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. Venoison rotie. Have a haunch of venison that has been hung 14 or 21 days, saw off the knuckle and rub it over with clarified fat. Wrap it in a well greased paper, cover the paper over with a stiff, cold water paste and cover the paste Avith another greased paper. Tie the haunch over with string to keep the paste together, place the meat before a good clear fire or in a moderately heated oven and cook for 4^ to 5 hours, keeping it well basted. Half an hour before serving remove the papers and paste, dust the haunch with sifted flour, put it down again to get quite brown, basting well. Serve on a hot dish with clear gravy or brown sauce and hot red currant jelly in a tureen.VEGETABLES. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS A LA PRINCESSE. Funds d'Artichauts d la Princesse. Season some cooked artichoke bottoms with a little salad oil, chopped tarragon and chervil and a little tarragon vinegar; place inside each a thin slice of tomato similarly seasoned and arrange round the tomato small rounds of cooked chicken, tongue and cucumber. Set these with a little aspic and in the centre of each place some Tartare sauce. Dish up on rounds of tomato aspic. GLOBE ARTICHOKES. A rtichauts. Place them in hot water, bring to the boil, then simmer from 30 to 45 minutes, or till the leaves can be drawn off easily. They can be served hot as a vegetable or cold as a salad. STEWED GLOBE ARTICHOKES. Art/chants d V Espagnole. Cut the artichokes into quarters, scrape out the inside and trim the leaves about half. Fry the pieces in oil with a shallot chopped fine, until it is all a light brown, season with pepper and salt. Add bones or pieces of cold meat and enough good stock to cover, and let them stew till tender. Take out the pieces of artichoke and strain the sauce over them in the dish. The sauce should be thick and dark brown. Take the lid off the stew-pan some time before serving to let it boil down, other- wise the sauce will be thin and watery. ASPARAGUS. A sparges an Branches. Clean the asparagus and trim it evenly, tie it into a bundle with tape, and leave it in cold water to get firm before boiling. Wrap it in a piece of muslin to save the heads from being broken,VEGETABLES. G3 put it into boiling water in a good-sized saucepan with, a little salt and cook from 25 to 30 minutes. Dish it up on a slice of dry hot toast and serve with Hollandaise or Vinaigrette sauce or simply oiled butter. The' sauce to be served in a separate tureen. STEWED ASPARAGUS. A sperges etuvees. 1 bundle asparagus. Salt, pepper, and a grate of White sauce. nutmeg. Clean the asparagus, scrape the stalks carefully, and remove all stringy fibres. Cut them into short lengths and put them into a stew-pan with sufficient thin white sauce over them to cover the pieces. Cook very slowly until tender; season with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Stir them gently occasionally to prevent them from burning. Serve hot. AUBERGINES (EGG PLANTS) WITH ANCHOVIES. Aubergines aux Anchois. Remove the stems from some aubergines, split them in halves and cut the inside of each half in 4 or 5 places lengthways; season these spaces with pepper, salt, chopped shallot and parsley. Steep some neat fillets of anchovy in olive oil, then place one in each incision, brush the aubergines over with oil, sprinkle the top with browned breadcrumbs, and place them on a greased tin in the oven for about 20 minutes. Place on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. FRIED AUBERGINES. Aubergines frites. 4 aubergines. Salt. Frying fat. Peel and slice the aubergines lengthways, scoring the inside across and across. Dust them with salt and leave them on a drainer; press them in a clean cloth to extract the bitter juice before cooking them. Fry in boiling fat.; or egg, breadcrumb and fry them. Or, if preferred, they can be dipped in frying batter and fried a golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper and serve hot. Egg. Breadcrumbs.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. G4 AUBERGINES A LA LANGUEDOC. Cut the vegetables open lengthways, remove all the seeds, cut the slices into neat pieces, sprinkle over them salt, pepper, and a very little nutmeg, also a few fine raspings. Pour over them some good salad oil and broil them for a few minutes over a clear fire. BROAD BEANS. Fives Fraiches. Shell the b:ans and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, to which a little salt has been added. Boil till tender, drain and serve with white sauce. FRENCH BEANS. Haricots Verts. String and cut them into long strips. Place them in a pan with plenty of boiling water, and a little salt. Boil till tender (15 to 20 minutes), and when done, drain and shake them in the pan till dry. Add a little pepper and a small piece of dripping. Serve very hot. Any cold French beans left over can be served as a salad, dressed with oil and vinegar. BOILED BEETROOTS. Betteraves Chaudes. Well wash some young beetroots, being careful not to break the skin. Put them into fast boiling water and boil for 1 hour. Take them out carefully, peel quickly and cut them into thin slices. Melt a small piece of clarified dripping (or butter) in a saucepan, and place the sliced beetroot in. Shake it over a gentle fire till quite hot, and serve in a hot dish, garnished with little tufts of boiled cauliflower, or as an accompaniment to grilled steak. BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND CHESTNUTS. Choux <le Bruxelles el Marrons. 1 lb. sprouts. 1 oz. dripping, i lb. chestnuts. Salt and pepper. Trim and wash the sprouts and stand them in cold salt and water. Peel and skin the chestnuts. Boil them separately in hot water with a little salt. Drain them, mix them together, add the dripping, reheat aud serve.65 VEGETABLES. STEWED RED CABBAGE. 1 red cabbage. 1 apple (sour). 2 oz. dripping. 1 teaspoonful salt. Choux Rouges Et lives. 5 teaspoonful pepper. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful vinegar, or 2 of sour wine. Remove the outer leaves of the cabbage, and shred the rest finely. Put it in a big basin, cover with boiling water and let it stand 1 hour. Strain off the water, put the cabbage into a saucepan, with the apple cut up, the dripjhng, salt, pepper and sugar and the vinegar or sour wine. It is best cooked in an earthenware saucepan. Stew it slowly from 1 to 1^ hours, stirring occasionally. CARDOONS. Cardans Etuves. Parboil for 15 minutes, throw into cold water and leave till cold, then rinse and drain them, and stew them gently in stock for an hour or till perfectly tender. CARROTS AND GREEN PEAS A L’ALLEMANDE. Carottes et Petits Pols d VAllemande. 1 quart green peas. 1 bunch yoimg carrots. 2 oz. dripping. 1 dessertspoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. j pint stock. Salt and pepper. Shell, wash and drain the peas, scrape and cut up the carrots. Melt the dripping in an enamelled stew-pan, put in the peas, broil for a few minutes and add the carrots. Sprinkle them with the flour, add the sugar, salt and pepper, and stir gently till the flour is cooked but not browned. Moisten it with the stock, stir till it boils and then let it simmer gently for £ ail hour or till the vegetables are done. More stock can be added if too dry. CARROTS AU JUS. Carottes au Jus. Scrape the carrots carefully and cut in thick slices. Place them in sufficient water to cover them, and stew till tender. Then evaporate the water till only half remains. Add a piece FCG DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. of dripping, flour, pepper and salt, and toss the carrots gently in the pan till they are coated with their own thickened juice. Serve hot. CAULIFLOWER A LA VARENNE. Choufleur a la Varenne. Trim a cauliflower and place it in salt and water for 1 hour ; then put it in a saucepan of cold water with a pinch of salt, bring it to the boil, rinse the cauliflower and put it again in boiling water seasoned with salt to boil till tender. Cut it in pieces, place it in the centre of a hot dish, pour parsley sauce over and garnish with braised carrots or a macedoine of vegetables, placing the cut up stalks of the cauliflower in the centre. CAULIFLOWER FRITTERS. Choufleur eu Beignets. 1 Cauliflower. | Frying batter and oil. Grated cheese if liked.. Boil a cauliflower, drain it, break it up into neat pieces, dip these into frying batter and fry in boiling oil till a golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper, sprinkle with grated cheese, .if liked, and dish in a pyramid on a dessert-paper. FRIED CELERIAC. Celeri-rave Frit. Peel the ccleriac, boil it for 45 minutes (it must be put on in hot water), drain it and let it get cold. Cut it up in slices and fry in boiling fat. CELERIAC IN WHITE SAUCE. Celeri-rave, Sauce Blanche. Boil the celeriac as above, drain it, cut it in slices and pour white sauce over it. FRIED CELERY. Celeris Frits. Well wash a head of celery, cut the white pieces into lengths of about 4 inches, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, dip them into beaten egg, toss them in breadcrumbs and fry quickly in boiling fat or oil; drain on kitchen paper and serve.VEGETABLES. 67 STEWED CELERY. Celeris Etuves. 4 celery heads well washed and salted. 8 or 9 white peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. A few cloves. A little bit of onion and parsley 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. dripping. j pint white stock or water. Pepper and salt. Put the celery into cold water and let it come gradually to the boil, as this process blanches it. Skim it carefully and boil till tender. For the sauce, melt the dripping, stir in the flour, add the spices, onion, stock or water, and seasoning. Boil well, stir and strain over the celery before serving. CHESTNUT VEGETABLE. 2 lbs. chestnuts. 1 tablespoonful finely chopped f pint thick brown gravy. mushrooms. 1 oz. smoked beef. Peel off the hard outside skin of the chestnuts and put the nuts into boiling water for a few minutes. Remove the thin inside skin and boil the nuts till tender in salted water, about ^ an hour, then drain them. Cut the smoked beef into tiny dice, cook them and the chopped mushrooms in the thick gravy, toss the chestnuts in this sauce, pile them high in a dish and serve hot. BOILED ENDIVE. Endives. Parboil sharply in salted water for 20 minutes, then drain, rinse, dry, chop, and stew or simmer for 20 to 30 minutes in stock. LETTUCE. Laitue Bouillie. Prepare it just like endive, or it can be stewed whole for 1 hour in good stock. STEWED LEEKS. Poireaux Etuves. ' Trim, peel and clean the leeks, cutting off most of the green part, and lay them in water for about 1 hour. Cook them in f 2DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. G8 boiling water, and a little salt for 20 to 30 minutes. Drain from the water, and dish them up, covering them with white sauce, well flavoured with salt and cayenne. BOILED GREEN PEAS. Petits Pots. Shell the peas just before they are required. Put them into a saucepan with just enough boiling water to cover them, a sprig of mint, a little salt, and 1 teaspoonful sugar. Boil them tdl tender (about 15 to 20 minutes) with the lid off the saucepan. When done, drain, add a little pepper, and a small piece of clarified dripping, and serve at once. POTATO CROQUETTES. Croquettes aux Pommes de Terre. Cook 1 lb. potatoes, and when they are quite dry, pass them through a fine wire sieve, mix with them 1 oz. clarified fat, a pinch of salt and of white pepper, and 2 raw yolks of eggs. Mix all into a paste and let it get cold, roll out with a little flour and form into the shapes of small pears. Dip them in egg and breadcrumb and fry in boiling fat or oil till a good golden colour; drain on paper, stick in each a bit of parsley stalk and serve hot on a dish-paper (see illustration, page 45). POTATO LOAVES. Petits Pains de Pommes de Terre. ] lb. mashed potato. j 1 oz. dripping. 2 eggs. I Salt and pepper. Melt the clarified dripping and mix it with the potatoes. Add 1 egg beaten, and a little pepper and salt. Form the mixture into little cottage loaves, brush over with beaten egg, place on a baking tin and bake a golden brown. POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE. Pommes de Terre a la Lyonnaise. 1 onion. Minced parsley. Cold potatoes. I Dripping. Salt and pepper. Mince the onion, and fry it in hot dripping. Add cold sliced potatoes and stir them till they are cooked. Add a little minced parsley, pepper and salt, and serve very hot.GO VEGETABLES. BOILED NEW POTATOES. Pomines de Terre Nourelles. Wash the potatoes and drop them into cold water till ready. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water containing a sprig of mint and a little salt. Boil them slowly 15 to 30 minutes, or until they are tender. Drain off the water, and peel the potatoes. Return them to a clean saucepan with a small bit of clarified dripping, heat and sprinkle with chopped parsley when dishing up. POTATO RIBBONS. Famines de Terre en Ruban. 4 large potatoes. | Frying fat. Salt and pepper. Peel the potatoes, and cut them in fine shavings round and round the potato, as if peeling them in ribbons of equal length. Throw the shavings into a frying pan with boiling fat, and fry a golden brown. Move them constantly with a silver fork to keep the pieces separate. Drain them and pile lightly on a dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt and serve hot. POTATO STRAWS. Failles de Pommes de Terre. Peel the potatoes and shred them in lengths of about 3 inches long and ^ of an inch thick, keep them in salt and water till ready to cook, dry them in a cloth and put them in a frying basket in hot fat or oil till tender. Remove the basket from the fat and stand it on a plate to drain ; boil the fat or oil again, and when quite boiling, put the basket in for about a minute to crisp the potatoes, moving the basket about all the time. Serve with a little finely chopped parsley and a pinch of salt. SAUTEE POTATOES. Pommes de Terre Sendees. Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices about \ of an inch thick and then in rounds with a plain cutter. Heat some clarified fat in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, and fry them golden brown on each side; drain them, sprinkle with chopped parsley and a pinch of salt. Serve hot. SALSIFY. Scrape it and wash it in water containing a little lemon juice, throw it into boiling salted water, boil quickly from f to 1 hour, or until tender; drain. Serve on toast with white sauce.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 70 FRIED SALSIFY. Egg and breadcrumb some plain boiled salsify, fry it in smok- ing hot fat till a delicate brown, drain on kitchen paper. Garnish with fried parsley. SALSIFY IN BATTER. Dip plain boiled salsify in frying battel, fry to a light brown in smoking hot fat, drain on kitchen paper. Garnish with fried parsley. \ SEAKALE. Put it on in boiling salted water containing a little lemon juice. Simmer from 30 to 40 minutes. If overboiled, seakale hardens and toughens. BOILED SPINACH. Eplnanls. 3 lbs. spinach. | 1 oz. clarified dripping. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Pick the spinach and wash it in plenty of water; drain it and put it in a saucepan with a tiny piece of soda and a tea- spoonful of salt, adding no water. Cook it quickly with the lid off for about £ hour, until quite tender. Drain it, press out all the water, and rub the spinach through a sieve or chop it very finely. Melt the dripping, add it to the spinach, season with pepper and salt and stir it over the fire till it is hot, but do not boil it again or the colour will be spoilt. Garnish it with quarters of hard-boiled egg. Wafercrcss makes an excellent hot vegetable when cooked like spinach. MACEDOINE OF VEGETABLES. Macidoine dc Legumes. Clean and boil 2 or 3 carrots, turnips, 1 cauliflower, a few Brussels sprouts. Boil also a few peas, and French beans, and asparagus. Cut the carrots and turnips into fancy shapes, the French beans into diamonds, and use only the tips cl; the asparagus, and the flower pieces of the cauliflower. Drain all well and put all into a saute-pan with 2 tablespoonsful thick white sauce, pepper, salt and a teaspoonful castor sugar. Toss the macedoine lightly over the fire and serve hot.SALADS. SALAD A L’ALLEMANDE. 'Salade d VAUemande. Break some well washed crisp lettuce leaves or endive into little pieces, dry them. Cut some celery, cooked beetroot and peeled cucumber in Julienne strips, keeping the celery in cold water till crisp. Cut into strips some cold cooked chicken or other poultry, some filleted anchovies and Spanish olives. Place all these in a salad bowl, season with pepper, salt, chopped shallot, tarragon and chervil, pour over the whole some stiff Mayonnaise and garnish with a few shreds of red chillies and gherkins, also some sieved hard-boiled yolk of egg and little strips of beetroot. FRENCH BEAN SALAD. Salade de Haricots Verts. Trim some French beans, throw them into plenty of fast boiling water, add a tiny bit of soda, and let them boil uncovered till done. Drain them and throw them in a basinful of cold water, drain them again thoroughly, and place them in a dry cloth. Prepare a salad dressing of three parts of oil to one part of vinegar, add a little mustard, pepper and salt to taste. Toss the beans in this, place them in a salad bowl, add a sprinkling of chopped parsley or chervil and garnish with quarters of hard- boiled eggs. FRENCH BEAN AND TOMATO SALAD. Salade aux Haricots Verts et Tomates. 1 lb. tomatoes. 1 lb. boiled French beans. Chopped parsley. Spring onions. Watercress. Dressing of oil. Lemon- juice. Salt and pepper. Dip the tomatoes in scalding water, remove the skins, slico them and season them. Season the French beans, and arrange all on a dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley and garnish with tiny spring onions and picked watercress.72 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. WHITE CABBAGE SALAD. Salcide aux Choux Blancs. 1 firm hard white cabbage. Vinegar. Oil. Salt, pepper. Remove the outer leaves of the cabbage, wash it thoroughly and shred it finely with a sharp knife. Mix with it a proper proportion of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, turn it over a few times till well mixed, and serve. Bccl cabbage salad is made in the same way. CHICKEN SALAD A L’AMERICAINE. Salade dc Volatile d VAviericaine. 2 heads of celery. Mayonnaise sauce. Cold boiled chicken. Salt and pepper. Chop the celery into neat cubes, season with salt and pepper, and place in a bowl. Cut up all the white meat of a chicken, which has been allowed to get cold in the liquor in which it was boiled, chop it roughly, and pile it in the centre of the bowl. Pour a good Mayonnaise sauce over it. CELERY SALAD. Salade ele Celeri. Take the white parts from two heads of celery, cut them into 1-inch lengths, place these in a salad bowl and add to them the whites of three eggs cut into neat pieces, add also a teaspoonful of finely minced shallot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a tea- spoonful of capers and a gill of Mayonnaise sauce. Mix thoroughly, then add the yolks of the eggs rubbed through a wire sieve; garnish with filleted anchovies and some turned Spanish olives. If liked, a little thinly sliced beetroot may be added. CELERY AND TOMATO SALAD. Salade de Tomatcs et Celeri. 2 heads white celery. Vinegar. 4 tomatoes. Tarragon and chervil. Oil. Pepper and salt. Wash and clean the celery, and cut it into fine strips. Slice the tomatoes and lay the vegetables in alternate layers in asalads. 73 salad bowl. Make a dressing of the oil and vinegar, to which chopped tarragon, chervil, and pepper and salt are added. Pour the dressing over the salad, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. COUNTRY SALAD. Salade a la Paysanne. Oil and vinegar dressing. Cold boiled sliced potatoes. Pickled red cabbage. Cold boiled sliced celery root. Pepper and salt to taste. Toss the pickled cabbage, potatoes and celery root in the dressing, and season to taste. SALAD A LA DUMAS. Salade d la Dumas. 3 potatoes, boiled. 2 tomatoes. 1 lettuce. 1 small beetroot. 1 gherkin. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tablespoonful Tartare sauce. 1 dessertspoonful salad oil. 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence. 1 dessertspoonful vinegar. Thin the Tartare sauce (Mayonnaise with chopped gherkin added) with the oil and vinegar, and stir in the vegetables, which must be cut in long cubes, reserving a few to sprinkle on the top. Put the white heart of a lettuce in the centre of the dish, the vegetables coated in sauce, round it, and decorate with plain vegetables and shredded white of egg. SALAD A L’ESTRAGON. Salade a VEstragon. Cut up some celery into inch lengths, then into shreds, keep it in water till crisp; cut some peeled radishes, cucumbers and tomatoes in the same way and put some leaves of tarragon and chervil in cold water till required. Have some salsify, cleaned, cut in inch lengths and cooked till tender, or some cooked artichoke bottoms; drain on a sieve. Toss them in a mixture of salad oil and tarragon vinegar ; pile them up in the centre of a dish, season the other vegetables similarly, and arrange them round the salsify to form a border, pour iced tomato Mayonnaise round the base and sprinkle all over with chopped tarragon, chervil and shallot.74 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. Tomato Mayonnaise: Mix together one large tablespoonful of tomato sauce, the same of Mayonnaise, and a little more than a gill of aspic jelly, pass through a tammy, and set on ice. HERRING SALAD. Salade d Cold boiled waxy potatoes. 2 Dutch herrings. G anchovies, boned. 1 apple. 6 olives. Capers. Cut up the herrings, potatoes onion pickle very finely and mi? vinegar. Garnish the dish with root. 'Iiareng. Cooked beetroot. Onion pickle. Parsley. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 tablespoonsful white vinegar. 2 tablespoonsful salad oil. , anchovies, apple, beetroot and : well together with the oil and chopped egg, parsley and beet- JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE SALAD. Salade aux Topinambours. Peel some artichokes, throw them into cold water with a little lemon juice in it. Boil them carefully but do not over- cook them. Drain them, and, when cold, cut them into thin slices and arrange them in a salad bowl, previously rubbed with a shallot. Make a dressing of 7 tablespoonsful oil and 1 desseit- spoonful of vinegar, ^ a teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt. When well mixed, pour it gradually over the sliced artichokes, and sprinkle them with finely chopped tarragon or parsley. Keep the salad covered till wanted, and serve as soou as possible. MUSHROOM SALAD. Salade de Champignons. 4 lb. mushrooms. 2 tablespoonsful salad oil. 2 slices peeled lemon. Chopped parsley. 1 shallot. Pepper and salt to taste. Oil and vinegar to taste. Peel the mushrooms, chop them into dice, place them in a stew-pan with the salad oil and slices of lemon, let them simmer till cooked; let them get cold. Make a dressing of oil and vinegar a la Fran^aise, toss the mushrooms, parsley, and chopped shallot in it, season with pepper and salt, and serve.SALADS 75 POTATO SALAD. Salade de Pommes de Terre. Peel the potatoes, cut them into small dice sufficient to fill a pint measure; put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them and a pinch of salt, boil till tender, but do not let them break. Strain off and let cool. Mix in a basin one large tablespoonful of Mayonnaise sauce, a teaspoonful of tar- ragon vinegar, a good pinch of salt, a teaspoonful chopped tar- ragon and chervil. Add the potatoes, mix and turn into a dish. Garnish with tomatoes, peeled and cut in small square pieces. SARDINE SALADE EN MAYONNAISE. 1 lettuce. 2 or 3 spring onions. 1 tomato chervil. tarragon 1 cucumber. 2 hard-boiled eggs, and Boned sardines. Mayonnaise sauce. Well wash, drain and break up a lettuce, chop up the onions and place them both in a salad bowl with sliced tomato and cucumber. Pour Mayonnaise sauce over all, and stir well to- gether. Garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, sardines and a sprinkling of chopped tarragon and chervil. This salad can be served en vinaigrette, by using that sauce instead of Mayonnaise. SPRING SALAD. Salade Priutaniere. 1 head of celery, blanched, and cut in dice. 3 times as much peeled and sliced cucumber. The same of uncooked artichoke bottoms, minced. Twice as much small pink radishes in dice, or pickled red cabbage. 1 tablespoonful made mustard. 2 tablespoonsful good vinegar. 8 tablespoonsful good salad oil. A pinch of pepper, ^ teaspoonful minced chervil. Lot the celery, cucumber and artichokes stand for 2 hours sprinkled with salt, then add the radishes or pickled red cabbage. Pub the mustard smooth with the vinegar, add the salad oil, pepper and chervil. Drain the vegetables and mix them thoroughly with the sauce and seasoning and serve in a salad bowl./ 0 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. p?/‘* SWEDISH SALAD. Salade Suedoise. Oil and vinegar dressing. 2 pickled Dutch herrings lilleted. Flaked lax. 4 cold boiled potatoes sliced. Filleted anchovies. 1 sour apple cut in dice. 4 chopped gherkins. Chopped tarragon, chervil and shallot to taste. Stoned olives. Toss the herrings, lax, potatoes, apple and gherkins in the dressing, sprinkle them with the tarragon, chervil and shallot, garnish with stoned olives and fdleted anchovies. TOMATO JELLY (SALAD). Salade de Tomates en Aspic. Tomatoes. Isinglass. Celery. Walnuts. A little onion. Mayonnaise sauce. Boil the pulp of fresh or preserved tomatoes, strain it through muslin, add seasoning and spice. Use soaked isinglass in the proportion of \ oz. to 1 pint of liquid. Boil all for a few minutes, and pour it into a pipe mould to set. Turn it out carefully and fill the hollow in the centre with shredded white celery, a small quantity of very finely minced onion and some chopped walnuts. Pour a little Mayonnaise sauce over and serve. WHITE WINTER SALAD. Salade Blanche. Cooked potatoes. Jerusalem artichokes. Cauliflowers. Haricot beans. 1 head white celery. 1 small onion. Mayonnaise sauce. Mince tho onion very finely, and cut the potatoes and arti- chokes into slices, and the cauliflower into sprigs. Chop the celery. Arrange all the vegetables in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, and dress it with Mayonnaise sauce. Garnish it with tufts of celery foliage.SAUCES. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Sauce aux Auchois. 2 oz. butter. H oz. flour. ^ pint milk. 3 anchovies, or 2 dessert- spoonsful anchovy essence. 2 tablespoonsful cream. A few drops of lemon juice. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, boil up, add seasoning, lemon juice, cream, anchovies pounded (or the essence), tammy, reheat, and serve. APPLE SAUCE. Compote lie Pommes. 1 lb. good cooking apples. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 1 oz. brown sugar. 1 wineglassful claret, if liked. Water. Peel, core, and quarter the apples, and put them into a sauce- pan with just sufficient water to keep them from burning. Add a little sugar and lemon juice. (A wineglass of claret is con- sidered a great improvement.) Rub it through a sieve, reheat, and serve. BECHAMEL SAUCE A LA CREME. Sauce Bechamel. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. b pint milk. | pint cream. 1 small onion. Herbs. Salt. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, the cut-up onion, herbs, and salt. Simmer for 10 minutes, pass through a fine sieve or tammy, reheat, stir in the cream, and serve. f or meats this sauce can be made with clarified dripping, and white stock, but it would not be of the correct white colour.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 78 BRANDY SAUCE. Sauce a VEau-de-Vle. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 tablespoonsful brandy. \ pint water. 1 egg. Boil the sugar and water together, then add the brandy. Remove to the side of the fire, and add the egg, previously well beaten. It must not boil, but should be stirred over the fire till it is frothy. BREAD SAUCE. £ pint of clear stock. Crumb of a stale roll. 1 small onion. A pinch of 1 dessertspoonful fat. Salt. Cayenne, ground mace. Soak the roll in water, drain it off, and beat it up well. Add the stock, and the seasonings, some very finely chopped onion, and boil it all together, stirring it well. While it is boiling stir in the well clarified fat, mix well, and serve. BROWNING FOR SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Caramel. % lb. brown sugar. | \ pint boiling water. Tut the sugar into an old basin, and stand it in the oven till it becomes dark brown. When it is bubbling, pour the boiling water over it, stir it well, and when it is all dissolved, strain it through a fine sieve. Bottle it when cold, and if kept well corked it will last for some time. BROWN SAUCE. 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. tomatoes. 4 oz. good dripping. 2 quarts good stock. Fry the flour and tomatoes in the dripping till a good brown colour, add the stock, made from cooked meat bones, stir till it boils, and let it boil till it is reduced one quarter, keeping it skimmed well. When quite free from fat, pass it through a tammy. If boiled up once or twice a week this sauce is always ready for use.79 SAUCES. BLACK BUTTER. Beurre Noir. 2 oz. fresh butter. | 2 tablespoonsful parsley. 1 tablespoonful French vinegar. Put the butter in a frying-pan, let it heat gently till it becomes a deep golden colour. Wash the parsley, dry it, and chop it small, put it in the butter, shake the pan, and as soon as the parsley is crisp, pour it with the butter over the dish or into a sauce-boat; put the pan on the stove again, and pour in the vinegar, let this just boil up, pour it over the butter, and serve at once. BROWN CAPER SAUCE. Cooked meat bones. Bayleaf. 2 oz. clarified dripping. A few peppercorns. 1 sliced onion. A pinch of salt. Thyme. l\ oz. flour. Parsley. H tablespoonful vinegar. 2 tablespoonsful capers. Fry the bones, onion, and seasoning in a little dripping till well browned; cover with cold water, and let it come steadily to the boil. Skim well, and let it boil slowly for 1^ hours, then remove the fat. Fry 1 f oz. flour in the same quantity of dripping till a good brown colour, and mix in £ pint of above stock, stir till it boils, then add the vinegar; strain through a strainer, add capers, and serve. CELERY SAUCE. 1 head celery, i pint water. Sauce au Celeri. 1 yolk of egg. Juice of ^ lemon. Salt, pepper. Boil the heart and white parts of the celery with the water, pepper, and salt, till tender. Rub it through a sieve, add the beaten egg yolk and the lemon juice. A little of the liquor from boiled poultry is an improvement. Serve in a sauce-boat with a little of the chopped green leaves of the celery on it. CHOCOLATE SAUCE. Sauce au Chocolat. 2 oz. vanilla chocolate. 1 oz. arrowroot. 2 oz. castor sugar. £ pint boiling water. Grate the chocolate, mix it to a smooth paste with about a gill of boiling water, add a short ^ pint of boiling water, the castor sugar, and boil it all up. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with a very little cold water, let it all boil together for a few minutes, and serve.80 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES CRANBERRY SAUCE. (For use with venison, roast mutton, turlcey, etc.) 1 pint of cranberries. | 6 oz. castor sugar. gill water. Pick the cranberries, and wash them in cold water. Put them in an enamelled saucepan with sufficient water to cover. Oook them till tender, then add the sugar, and let it simmer very slowly as soon as the sugar is dissolved. Do not stir it, and the sauce will remain clear and the berries remain whole. If pre- ferred pulped, the sauce may be passed through a hair sieve. It can be served hot or cold. CUSTARD £ pint almond milk. 3 egg yolks. Beat up the egg yolks, boi SAUCE. A little loaf sugar. Vanilla. the milk, sugar, and vanilla, together, and pour it over the eggs. Place the custard into a jug, and stand this in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir it over the fire until it begins to thicken. DUTCH SAUCE. Sa uce Holla nil a ise. Juice of small lemon, or 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar. Salt. Grated nutmeg. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. \ pint cold water. Put the flour, egg yolks, and half the butter into a pan, warm and mix it. Add the cold water, bring just to the boil, stirring constantly, strain, and add the remainder of butter, lemon juice, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Serve hot. EGG SAUCE. Sauce aux CEufs. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 oz. butter. ^ pint milk. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Boil the eggs hard, and chop them when cold. Dissolve the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, stir, and when well mixed, add the milk. Stir till it boils, add the seasoning, and, lastly, the chopped egg.81 SAUCES GHERKIN 1 onion. 1 lemon. 2 small pickled gherkins (green). SAUCE. 1 teaspoonful flour. \ teaspoonful brown sugar. 1 tablespoonful gravy. I O'/,, dripping. Chop the onion, and fry it in the dripping. Add the lemon juice, salt, pepper, brown sugar, and the flour mixed with the gravy. Boil up, stir well together, and add the cut up gherkins. The sauce must not boil after the gherkins are added. It is an excellent sauce for cutlets. 1 pint good brown stock. | oz. isinglass. GLAZE. 1 tahlespoonful browning (see page 78). Put the ingredients, after dissolving the isinglass, into a small iron saucepan, and let all simmer at the side of the fire till reduced to half the quantity. Then pour it into a small pot or basin till required. It is best applied to tongues, cold roast poultry, etc., with a small brush. GRAVY SPICE FOR STEWS, &c. 2 oz. ground white pepper. 1 oz. ground ginger. ^ oz. nutmeg. | oz. ground cinnamon, i oz. allspice. 3 oz. Cerebos salt. I oz. cloves. Pound all well together, pass through a hair sieve, and keep in a tin for use as required. HORSERADISH SAUCE. Sauce Raifort a VAnglaise. Grate horseradish and parsley root finely. Mix it with while vinegar, pepper, and salt, till it has a creamdike consistency. GERMAN HORSERADISH SAUCE. Sauce Raifort a VAllemandc. 1 glass white wine. £ gill wine vinegar. 1 gill stock. lorseradish, peel, and grate the }, a stick of horseradish. 1 sour apple. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. Wash, scrape, and grate the ' X' o 7JL w apple, mix the other ingredients with them. Stir over the fire with a tiny piece of dripping, season with pepper and salt, and let it simmer for a few minutes. G82 DAINTY DINNEBS AND DISHES. LEMON SAUCE. Sauce aux Citrons. lb. loaf sugar. 3 lemons. 4 pint of water. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes. Moisten the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it to the sugar, stir in the juice of the lemons, boil up, and cook for 6 minutes. Serve hot. LEMON SAUCE FOR FOWLS. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 lemon-;. 1 dessertspoonful flour. pint of white stock. Salt, pepper. Beat the yolks, rub the flour in smoothly, add seasoning and the strained juice of the lemons. Stir it well, add the white stock, or some of the liquor in which a fowl was boiled, and put it on the fire. Let it boil up to thicken, stir well, and serve at once. MADEIRA SAUCE. Sauce Mndere. 2 wineglasses of Madeira. 1 oz. glaze. 4 pint brown sauce. Pinch of castor sugar. Dust of cayenne. T?educe the wine and sauce to half, add the other ingredients, boil for 10 minutes, pass through a tammy, and use. MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. S ince Maitre d' Hotel. 2 oz. butter. [ley. Lemon juice. 2 teaspoonsful chopped pars- Salt and pepper. Melt the butter, stir in the parsley, seasoning, and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve over fish, cutlets, etc. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Sa uce d Iayonnaise. 1 raw egg yolk, x pint salad oil. [vinegar 1 dessertspoonful tarragon A few drops of lemon juice. } teaspoonful mustard. Salt, pepper, cayenne. Put the yolk into a basin, add the mustard, pepper, and salt, drop, stirring it all the time. and then tho salad oil, drop by Then add vinegar and lemon juice to thin it a Tittle. Should the sauce curdle, it may be restored by adding another yolk of egg and stirring well.SAUCES. 83 GREEN MAYONNAISE Mayonnaise Verte. SAUCE. 2 pint Mayonnaise sauce. 1 tablespoonful parsley. minced 1 shallot minced. 1 dessertspoonful tarragon minced. Add the minced vegetables to the Mayonnaise sauce, stir well, and serve cold. MINT SAUCE. Sauce Menthc. Fresh mint. | 2 tablespoonsful castor sugar. 5 tablespoonsful vinegar. Wash and dry some young mint leaves, and dry them in a clean cloth, without squeezing them. Chop finely about 3 tablespoons- ful. Add them to the vinegar and sugar, and let it stand a short time. \ lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. clarified dripping 2 tablespoonsful bread- crumbs. MUSHROOM SAUCE. Sauce aux Champignons. 2 tablespoonsful good brown gravy. A little chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. »g- Skin, wash, and dry the mushrooms, and chop them finely. Put them into a frying-pan with the fat, and cook them for about 10 minutes. Add the breadcrumbs, gravy, and seasoning, and cook all together for 3 or 4 minutes. Serve hot. MUSTARD SAUCE FOR BROILED FISH. Sauce Moutarde. 11 oz. butter. £ gill boiling water. 1 teaspoonful flour. A little salt and vinegar. 1 good teaspoonful made mustard. Molt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the mustard. When well mixed, stir in the boiling water, and simmer over the fire for two or three minutes, stirring well. Just before serving add sufficient salt and vinegar to flavour. ONION SAUCE. Sauce Souhise. * lb. onions. i oz. flour, a pLt; water. ^ oz. clarified dripping. Salt, pepper. Peel and cut up the onions, and boil till tender (about f hour) G284 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. with a little salt. Strain them, and throw away the water. Melt the dripping, stir in the flour, add the water, and a little pepper and salt, and stir it carefully over the fire till it thickens. Add the onions, rubbed through a sieve, stir, boil up, and serve. ORANGE SAUCE. Sauce a VOrange. Juice of 2 oranges. 2 tablespoonsful brown sugar. Bind of \ lemon and ^ orange. J pint of water. Put ail the ingredients into a saucepan, boil for 10 minutes, pass through a fine sieve, and serve. PIQUANTE SAUCE. Sauce Plquante. 2 shallots. I Chopped capers, gherkins, and 2 tablespoonsful vinegar. ' olives. Gravy. Mince 2 shallots finely, put them in the saucepan with the vinegar, and boil till the vinegar is nearly gone. Add the chopped capers, gherkins, and olives, mix some thickened gravy with them, boil up, and serve without straining. RASPBERRY JAM SAUCE. Sauce aux Framboises. 1 pint of water. 4 tablespoonsful raspberry jam. 1 lemon. 1 tablespoonful sherry. Put the water into a saucepan, squeeze the juice of the lemon into it, add the jam, mix well, and let it boil. Remove it from the fire, stir in the sherry, and serve. This is an excellent sauce to serve with boiled puddings. Spinach, Parsley. Chives. RAVIGOTTE SAUCE. Sauce Vert Pre. Tarragon. Salad oil. Green Mayonnaise sauce. Parboil a little spinach, take equal quantities of it and of parsley, chives, and tarragon, and pound them to a stiff paste with a little salad oil. Rub this through a sieve, and mix it with green Mayonnaise sauce to taste.85 SAUCES. REMOULADEN SAUCE. Sauce JRemoulade. 1 small onion. 1 sprig of parsley. 1 anchovy and a few capers. Oil. Vinegar and mustard. Pepper and salt. Chop the onion, parsley, anchovy, and capers very finely, add pepper and salt, and a little made mustard. Add oil, drop by drop, and thin with a few drops of vinegar. ROBERT SAUCE FOR iSauce Robert. STEAKS. 1 onion. ^ oz. clarified fat. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 teaspoon i gill gravy or stock. 1 saltspoonful made mustard. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. :ul vinegar. Peel, and chop up the onion, melt the fat, fry the onion in it till brown, add seasoning, and the other ingredients, bring all to the boil, and pour over the steak, or serve in a separate sauce- boat. SPANISH SAUCE. 2 oz. smoked beef. \ lb. veal. $ lb. beef. 1 quart stock. 1 Spanish onion. 1 carrot. Parsley. Thyme. Sauce Espcignole. Bay leaf. 1 blade mace. Peppercorns. 2 cloves. Celery seed. 3 small mushrooms. Arrowroot. £ wineglassful white wine. Well grease a stew-pan with beef dripping, lay in 2 oz. of smoked beef, £ lb. each of beaf and veal, pour over 1 pint of bone stock, bring it to the boil, and let it boil gently till it is like syrup and bright, but do not let it burn. Add gradually another pint of stock, a medium-sized Spanish onion peeled and sliced, a small carrot, scraped and sliced1, a little parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, blade of mace, 2 or 3 peppercorns, 2 cloves, a little bruised celery- seed, and 2 or 3 small mushrooms. Simmer for 1^ hours, strain, and let it get cold. Next day remove the fat, heat the sauce, and thicken with arrowroot to the consistency of cream. Run it through a tammy, add half a wineglass of white wine, reheat, and serve.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 8G SWEDISH SAUCE. Sauce Suecloise. 2 tablespoonsful double cream. 2 tablespoonsful finely grated horseradish. ^ pint thick Mayonnaise. Stir all the ingredients together, and set on ice till required. TARTARE SAUCE. Sauce Tartare. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill salad oil. f gill tarragon vinegar. Capers. Salt, pepper. Stir the eggs and salt, add the oil, drop by drop, stirring all the time the same way, till it looks white and creamy. Then add the vinegar slowly, and, lastly, the capers and pepper. It can bo varied by using cut up pickles instead of capers. TOMATO SAUCE (to bottle). 1 lb. tomatoes (ripe). •A pint vinegar. Black pepper. Mustard seeds. Salt. White pepper. Allspice. [pepper 2 capsicums, or 1 pod of red Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in slices, and cook them with the capsicums in an enamelled saucepan with a little water till tender. Then rub all through a fine colander or sieve, return the pulp to the saucepan, add the vinegar and other ingredients, and boil all slowly for about 1^ hours. Strain, and put it in bottles while hot, cork tightly, and seal. This sauce will keep well in a cool, dry place. TOMATO SAUCE. (Another method.) Sauce Tomate. ^ lb. tomatoes (or £ a ^ onion. ^ carrot. an). Sail am 2 oz. clarified dripping. 1 oz. flour. I pint stock or water, pepper. Put the dripping into a saucepan with the cut up carrot and onion, and fry for 10 minutes. Add the flour, stock, seasonings, and tomatoes, bring it to the boil, simmer slowly for 30 minutes. Pass it through a hair sieve, rubbing as much pulp through as possible. Reheat, and serve. If necessary add carmine to improve the colour.87 SAUCES VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. Sauce Vinaigrette, 3 tablespoonsful salad oil. 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar. 1 teaspoonful finely chopped 1 saltspoonful Chili vinegar. 1 good pinch of salt. Mix all well together, and serve in a tureen. fresh tarragon and chervil. mignonette 1 saltspoonful pepper. GERMAN WINE SAUCE. Sauce Allemande. 1 egg. \ pint sherry. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. A strip of lemon peel. Put all into a basin, the sherry being slightly warmed ; place the basin over a pan of warm water, and whip briskly for 10 minutes, or until the sauce is a stiff froth. Do not let it get too hot, or it will curdle. Serve immediately. WHITE SAUCE. Sauce Blanche. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. Hour. ^ pint milk. Salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour till smooth, add the milk and seasoning, stir till smooth, boil up, cook 6 minutes, and strain. Substitute dripping and white stock for meat dishes. SWEET WHITE SAUCE. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. | pint milk. 2 dessertspoonsful sugar. A few drops of flavouring essence. Melt butter in a saucepan, sfir in the flour, add the milk and sugar, and stir till smooth. Boil up, cook G minutes, add the flavouring, and strain. A tablespoonful of sherry or rum may be added to this sauce instead of other essence.PUDDINGS, PASTRIES, JELLIES, &c. £ lb. almonds. 2 or 3 bitter almonds. 4 lb. castor sugar. 5 whites of eggs. ALMOND MERINGUE. Meringue d'A mandes. 1 lemon. Meringue of 0 whites of egg, J lb. castor sugar, and a few drops vanilla. Apricot jam. Pound the almonds not quite fine with a little white of egg, warm them, with the sugar, over the fire, beat the 5 whites stiffly, add them to the almonds and sugar off the fire, add the grated rind and the juice of the lemon, spread the mixture over some round wafer-paper, and bake in a cool oven about 1J hours. Spread the jam over the cake when cold, beat the 6 whites with J lb. castor sugar, add the vanilla, and place the meringue rockily over the cake. Sprinkle with sugar, and place in a cool oven to dry. ALMOND 10 yolks and 8 "whites of pcrrr 4 lb. ground almonds. PUDDING. j lb. castor sugar. 1 oz. Valencia almonds. Clarified sugar. Beat the yolks and whites separately, and then together. Stir in the almonds and sugar, and beat steadily for ^ an hour. Grease two tins or pie-dishes, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, turn them on to a sieve to cool. Decorate with halved, blanched almonds, and pour the syrup over if liked soaked, or hand it separately. APPLE MACAROON, Pommes aux A mandes. A little lemon rind, lb. ground almonds. 11b. cooking apples. 1 wineglassful cold water. J lb. castor sugar. Peel, core, and cut up the apples into small slices, stew them (though not to a mash) with the water, \ lb. of sugar, and lemon i 4 4 eggsMEAT SWEETS. 89 rind; when soft place them in a souffle-dish and let them get cold. Beat up the eggs, ground almonds, and remaining \ lb. of sugar for 20 minutes, pour this mixture on to the apples, and bake in a moderate oven for f of an hour. APPLE SNOW. 3 large cooking apples. | 2 whites of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. Bake the apples, remove the skins, and pass the fruit through a sieve. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add the sugar by degrees, then add the apple, and beat all together till it is light and soft like snow. Pile it roughly on a dish, and decorate to taste with red currant jelly, etc. APRICOT EGGS. (Eufs eu Surprise. Sponge cake. | Apricots. 1 egg white. Stamp out some rounds of sponge cake, place them on a dish, pour some syrup from a tin of apricots over them. On each round place half an apricot, flat side downwards; beat up the white of an egg very stiffly, put some carefully round each apricot, and grate a little nutmeg over to represent pepper. Serve at once. If for a butter meal, whipped cream can bo used instead of white of egg. APRICOT SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Abricots. 1 lb. pot of apricot jam. 6 whites of eggs. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. A little vanilla sugar. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, lightly add the sugar and vanilla. Beat up the jam, and stir it lightly into the eggs and sugar. Grease a souffle-dish with best salad oil, pour the mix- ture into it, bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes, and serve at once. BARCELONA CAKE. Shell and pound 1 \ pints 6 oz. castor sugar. Barcelona nuts. 5 eggs. Mix the pounded nuts with the castor sugar and yolks of eggs. Whip the whites stiffly, and mix in at last. Bake ill a greased tin, which has been sprinkled with flour and sugar.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 90 BEACONSFIELD PUDDING. i lb- syrup. ^ lb. flour, treacle or golden 4 teaspoonful ground ginger, i teaspoonful powdered cinna- mon. ^ teaspoonful allspice. 2 eggs. 2 oz. Demerara sugar. 2 oz. finely chopped suet. 4 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Warm the treacle, sift the flour into it, and then add the sugar, suet, and spices. Beat the eggs well, and dissolve the carbonate of soda in a little water. Mix all thoroughly together, and pour into a well greased mould. Boil for 2 hours or longer, and serve hot. BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 14 lbs. blackberries. § lb. castor sugar. Bread. | pint water. Custard sauce. Tune a pudding basin with slices of bread, cut about 4 an inch thick. Stew the blackberries with the sugar and water till they are tender, and pour them at once into the prepared basin. Cover the top with a round of bread, put a plate over, on which a heavy weight is placed. Let it stand a day, by which time the bread should be quite soaked with the juice. Turn it out, and serve cold with custard sauce round. CABINET PUDDING. 2 oz. stoned raisins, cur- rants, and glace cherries. 2 oz. candied peel. A few almonds. G sponge cakes. 4 egg yolks. 4 pint almond milk. 1 tablespoonful brandy, fi oz. castor sugar. | pint custard sauce (page 80). Lay a few of the cut up fruits at the bottom of a well greased mould, then a layer of sliced spongo cakes, then fruit, and con- tinue these layers till the mould is two-thirds full. Beat up the egg yolks, add the almond milk boiling, the brandy, and castor sugar. When it is well mixed, strain it into the mould, let it stand 10 minutes, cover it with greased paper, and steam it for 4 hour. Turn it out, and serve with a rich custard sauce. CALEDONIAN CREAM. 1 tablespoonful sieved straw- 4 whites of eggs, berry jam. Sifted sugar to taste. Beat the whites of egg very stiffly, add the jam, mix well, and add sugar to taste. Pile it up lightly on a silver dish, and serve as soon as possible, as the cream sinks when left.MEAT SWEETS 91 CARAMEL TRIFLE. Bagatelle de Caramel. 6 sponge cakes. ^ lb. castor sugar. 1 oz. a Place 2 oz. of the sugar in a clean saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it is a dark brown, then pour in the water carefully, and stir well; strain into a basin, add the eggs well beaten, and the remaining sugar. Pour the mixture into a clean saucepan, and stir over the fire till it thickens; allow it to cool. Cut up the sponge cakes in slices, arrange them in a glass or silver dish, and pour the caramel mixture over them. Garnish with roughly chopped almonds. This sweet is best made the day before it is required. For a butter sweet use milk instead of water, and decorate with whipped cream. ^ pmt cold water. R po’p’ct monds. BURNT ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Charlotte a la Creme Pralinee. \ oz. isinglass. £ pint water. Grated lemon peel. 5 lb. castor sugar. 2 oz. ratafia biscuits. 1 oz. ground almonds. 2 oz. Valencia almonds. Yolks of 5 eggs. G oz. Savoy biscuits. 1 oz. glace cherries. Put the isinglass, ground almonds, a little grated lemon peel, 2 oz. castor sugar, and the water, in a saucepan over the fire, and boil it about 20 minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs, let the other mixture cool a little, then pour it over the eggs. Blanch and chop the Valencia almonds, let. the rest of the sugar get red-hot in a clean pan. Stir the almonds into it, and stir over the fire for 5 minutes. Crush these burnt almonds in a mortar, add to the custard, and stir all together over the fire for a few minutes. Oil a plain mould, decorate the bottom with the cherries, line the sides with Savoy biscuits, and half fill with broken Savoy biscuits and ratafias. Pour the custard carefully over, let it get cold, and turn out when wanted. CHESTNUT MOULD. Pouding de Marrons. . 1 lb. chestnuts. lb. loaf sugar. pint water. Jnice of £ a lemon. ^ oz. isinglass. Pink colouring. Remove the outside skins from the chestnuts, throw them into water for a few minutes to free them from the inner boilingDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 92 skin. Make a syrup with the sugar, water, and lemon, and boil the chestnuts in the syrup till they are quite soft. Pass all through a sieve, add the dissolved isinglass and pink colouring, stir, pour into a wetted mould, and leave till cold. CHOCOLATE CAKE. Gateau de Chocolat. £ lb. grated chocolate. 1 small tablespoonful potato G oz. castor sugar. Hour. 5 eggs. Mix the chocolate, sugar, and potato flour together, then add the well beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them, beat lightly till they are well incorporated, turn the mixture into a well greased round tin, and bake for about | of an hour. This cake is Arery nice if made with pounded Barcelona nuts instead of chocolate. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLES. Petits Souffles de Chocolat. G oz. grated chocolate. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. 3 tablespoonsful cold water. 3 fresh eggs. Vanilla. Boil the chocolate and water till quite smooth, stirring all the time. Add the sugar, and stir till it is dissolved, but it must not boil, only warm thoroughly. Beat the yolks, add them, and beat all together for a few minutes, then add the stiffly beaten whites and vanilla. Stir all together one way till perfectly smooth, and fill souffle-cups, or papers, one-third from the top. Bake about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. CITRON PUDDING. £ lb. carrot. G oz. suet. £ lb. bread crumbs. 3 ^ lb. candied citron peel. | lb. biown sugar. 1 ^ oz. ground or chopped almonds. eggs. Grate the carrot, chop the suet, shred the peel; mix all the dry ingredients together, then add the eggs well beaten, and stir well. Put the mixture into a greased mould, and steam 3 hours.MEAT SWEETS 93 CLARET JELLY (FROM OX FOOT). 1 ox foot. 3 quarts water. 1£ pints claret. | lb. loaf sugar. Rind and juice of 2 lemons. ^ inch cinnamon stick. 3 cloves. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Well wash the ox foot, place it in a large saucepan with the cold water, cover, and when it comes to the boil skim it, and let it boil gently but continuously, for 5 hours. Strain it through a hair sieve and put it aside till next day; take the meat off the foot and use it for stews, fritters, etc. When set, there should be a stiff jelly ; skim the oil carefully off the top and use it to make pastry, or in any other way instead of butter; wipe the top of the jelly with a clean cloth and put half of it into a clean stew-pan. Add the claret, loaf sugar, rind and juice of the lemons, cinnamon, and cloves. Wash the eggs, whip the whites half stiff, crush the shells, add them to the other in- gredients. Whisk all over the fire till it comes to the boil, stand the pan at the side of the stove for a few minutes, strain the jelly through the jelly-bag or cloth (see illustration page 95), pour it into a wetted mould and let it get cold. COCOA-NUT TART. 2 cocoa-nuts. 1 Yolks of 5 eggs. ^ lb. loaf sugar. Puff pastry. Peel and grate the cocoa-nuts; dissolve the sugar over the fire with the milk of the nuts, when it boils add the grated cocoa-nut and let it boil again and then get cool. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to the cocoa-nut mixture and beat for of an hour. Line a tart-dish with thin puff pastry, spread with the above mixture and bake in a moderate oven. COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Petits Gateaux. 4 yolks and 2 egg whites. | 6 oz. sifted sugar. 5 oz. warmed flour. Whisk the yolks and sugar together for 20 minutes and stir in. the stiffly beaten wdiites. Arid the warmed flour, and bake ia greased cups or dariole moulds about 20 to 30 minutes. They can be served hot or cold, and either with clarified sugar poured over, or they can be rolled in apricot jam and sprinkled with chopped almonds or cocoa-nut.04 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. CRANBERRY JELLY. 1 11). cranberries. | £ lb. white sugar. Water. Cook the cranberries in sufficient water to cover them well, till tender (about 15 to 20 minutes). Rub them through a sieve. Put the puree in a clean saucepan with the sugar, and boil till the mixture bubbles. Pour it into a wetted mould, or into the dish in which it will be served. Leave it to set, and serve when cold. COMPOTE OF FRUIT. Compote de Fruits. \ lb. loaf sugar. | £ pint cold water. H lbs. fruit. Place the sugar in a stew-pan, add the water, let it come to the boil. Prepare the fruit; if it has any stones, crack a few and take out the kernels; add them with the fruit to the boiling syrup and let all simmer in it till soft. FRUIT SALAD. Macedoine de Fruits. A ny fruits that are in season. A few glace cherries, angelica, etc. Blanched almonds. 1 pint of syrup. Liqueur for flavouring. Pick the fruits, such as strawberries, currants, grapes, etc. Cut up bananas, apples, oranges or tangerines, after peeling them. Mix all together and pour a good rich syrup over them, flavoured with maraschino or noveau. FRUIT SALAD (Another Method). Macedoine de Fruits. Dried fruits such as French plums, dates, glace cherries, angelica, blanched almonds, or other nuts. Any fruit that is in season except apples or pears. Castor sugar. Maraschino. Prepare the fruit by removing stalks, stones, hulls, or skins, as may be desirable, cut up the larger fruit into neat pieces, ai range it in layers on a glass or silver dish, sprinkling each layer with castor sugar. Then gently pour over all as much liqueur as will make a good syrup, ladling it over the fruit occasionally. Keep it on ice till wanted.MEAT SWEETS. 05 5. —CLEARING SOUP or JELLY. {Pages 7 $ 03.) 6. —FORMING ECLAIRS. {Page 115.) 7. —GENOESE PASTRY. {Page 96.) 8. —PUFF PASTRY. {Pages 103 $ 118.)DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 96 FRUIT SOUFFLE. Souffle de Fruits. 1 lb. strawberries or other fruit. 3 eggs. b. castor sugar. i \ 11). flour. Grated rind of a lemon. Pick the strawberries or any other fruit into a pie-dish. Beat the eggs with the sugar, and grated lemon rind over hot water till thick, then beat till cold, and stir in the flour lightly. Pour it over the fruit and bake in a moderate oven \ hour. If hard fruit is used, it must be stewed first. GATEAU OF CHERRIES. Gateau de Cerises. 1 lb. cherries, stoned. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 tablespoonsful brandy, or a little vanilla. 1 oz. isinglass. Kind and juice of 1 lemon. Cochineal, s pint water. Put the sugar, ^ pint water, the rind and juice of a lemon and a little cochineal in a saucepan and boil it for 20 minutes. Then add the stoned cherries. Melt the isinglass in ^ pint of water, and when it is dissolved add it to the cherry mixture. Add also the brandy or vanilla. When well mixed, pour it into a wetted mould to set, and turn out when required. GENOESE PASTRY. Pate Genoise. i lb. flour. ± lb. sugar. \ lb. clarified dripping. A pinch of salt. 4 eo-fs. Jam. Warm the dripping by the side of the fire and beat it till white. Mix the flour, sugar, eggs and salt thoroughly together with a wooden spoon, then add the beaten dripping. When all is well mixed spread it \ of an inch thick on a well greased baking-tin and bake in a moderately hot oven. The pastry can afterwards be spread with jam, cut into fancy shapes and decorated with different coloured icings, cherries, etc. HAMANS 1 tablespoonful salad oil and some for frying. EARS. lb. flour. 2 eggs. Heat the oil, mix with it the flour and well beaten eggs. Make it all into a paste, roll it out as thin as possible in rounds, cutMEAT SWEETS. 97 each round in four and let the pieces dry. Have ready some boiling salad oil, put a few pieces of paste in the oil, and as soon as they are put in, draw them up across the middle with 2 silver skewers, so that they more or less resemble the shape of the human ear. Fry till they are a pale golden colour, drain them on kitchen paper, pile lightly on a dish and sprinkle with castor sugar. JAUMANGE. £ lb. lump sugar. | pint water. Juice of 3 and peel of 2 lemons. 1 oz. dissolved isinglass. 1 wineglassful of brandy. 3 wineglassesful of sherry. Yolks of 5 eggs. Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the thinly cut lemon rind, dissolved isinglass, juice of the lemons, brandy and sherry. Beat up with this the yolks of eggs. Place the basin containing the mixture in a pan of boiling water over the fire and stir for a few minutes. Pour into a wetted mould to set and get cold. LEMON CREAMS. Creme tie Citrons. 3 lemons. 1 pint cold water. 2 egg yolks and 4 whites. Castor sugar to taste. Peel the rinds of the lemons very thinly and squeeze the juice over them. Cover the basin and let it stand 4 hours, then add the eggs, well beaten, whites and yolks separately, and the water. Strain and sweeten to taste. Put it into a double saucepan and stir till it becomes as thick as cream. Pour into custard glasses, and use when cold. LEMON PIE. Flan de Creme au Citron. 2 oz. castor sugar. i pint boiling water. I cz. Reinylina cornflour. 2 eggs. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. Pastry. Mix the cornflour smooth with a little cold water, pour it into the boiling water, stir well and boil for a few minutes. Add sugar, lemon rind, juice, and the yolks of the 2 eggs. Lino a plate or pie-dish with pastry, pour the lemon mixture into it and bake about 20 minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add a few drops of lemon and a little sugar, arrange on the top of the pie and just set this meringue in a cool oven. liDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 93 LEMON SOUFFLE Souffle a ax Citrous. G eggs. 1 large teaspoonful Hun- garian Hour. | lb. castor sugar. Grated rind of 1 lemon, and juice of ^ lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar together for 20 minutes, add the flour and lemon and beat another 10 minutes. Stir in gently the stiffly beaten egg whites, pour it into a souffle tin, and bake at once in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Serve immediately it leaves the oven, or it will fall. LEMON WAFERS. Gauffres de Citron. 2 eggs. Their weight in castor sugar and in flour. Grated peel of half a lemou, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the eggs till they are white, add to them the sugar, flour, lemon juice, and grated peel; beat all well together. Grease a baking-sheet, place tablespoonsful of the mixture on it, some distance apart, bake in a moderate oven for about 10 minutes, quickly remove each cake from the tin and roll round like a wafer at once; keeping the tin on the hot-plate will facilitate this. When cold fill with jam or whipped and sweetened white of egg. LEMON WHIP. Petites Cremes de Citron. 1 lemon. | 2| oz. lump sugar. 3 eggs. Rub the lumps of sugar on the rind of the lemon (which has first been well wiped with a clean cloth), crush the sugar, put it in a stew-pan, and squeeze the lemon juice through a strainer on to it. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add them to the sugar and lemon juice, and stir over the fire till the mixture thickens, but do not let it boil; continue stirring a few minutes after removing from the fire, then leave it to get nearly cold. Whisk up the whites to a very stiff froth, stir them lightly into the custard and heap it up on a glass dish or in custard glasses. This should only be made 2 hours before it is wanted.MEAT SWEETS. 99 A MODERN LUCTION. 5 il>. Naples macaroni. ^ lb. currants. ^ ll>. raisins or sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. £ lb. suet. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 4 eggs. . \ lb. moist sugar. Grated peel of a lemon. Grease a round basin well, then sprinkle it liberally with brown sugar. Boil the macaroni for 20 minutes in boiling salted water, drain it on a sieve and line the basin with it. Wash and dry the currants, stone the raisins, shred the peel and the suet, beat up the eggs, mix all well together, turn into the prepared basin with the remainder of the macaroni, cover with a greased paper. Steam for 2 hours. Serve hot with a wine sauce. MACAROON BASKET. Gateau Chantilly. \ lb. macaroons. | 1 egg white. 4 pint syrup (clarified sugar). Beat a little syrup with the white of an egg. Rinse a plain mould in cold water, dip the edges of some macaroons in the white of egg and syrup and line the mould with the macaroons, taking care that the edges of the macaroons touch each other. When wanted, remove it from the mould, and fill it either with a macedoine of fruit for dinner, or with whipped cream and preserved fruits for supper. EGG MARMALADAS. 1 lb. loaf sugar. 33 sweet almonds. 4 pint water. 12 yolks of eggs. Place the sugar in a stew-pan with the water, and boil till it becomes a thick syrup, add the blanched and pounded almonds and let it cool; beat up the yolks well and pass them through a sieve into the syrup; mix well together. Put the mixture in a jug, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire and stir the mixture till it thickens. Pour it into custard glasses and sprinkle the tops with cinnamon. MARMALADE PUDDING. 4 oz. breadcrumbs. 4 oz. chopped suet. 3 oz. sugar. 4 oz. cat.died peel. G oz. marmalade. 3 eggs. Mix all well together, steam for 2 hours in a well greased mould, and serve with marmalade sauce.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 100 MARZIPAN TARTLETS. Pates cVAmandes aux Praises. | lb. ca-tor su sar. 1 lb. ground almonds. Yolks of 2 eggs. 1 lb. strawberries, or some good jam. 1 tablespooDf ul maraschino. Mix l lb. of the sugar and the same of ground almonds into a stiff paste with the yolks of eggs. Lightly sift sugar over pastry- board and rolling-pin and roll out the paste carefully about 1 inch thick ; cut it into rounds with a fluted pastry-cutter and line small greased tartlet tins with the rounds. Dry them in a cool oven for some hours, remove them from the tins and leave them to get cold and firm, then dust over with castor sugar. Pick the strawberries, place them in a basin with the remaining ^ lb. sugar and the maraschino, let them stand for 1 hour, then fill the tartlets with them. If convenient, a little whipped cream on each is an improvement. MERINGUES. 4 whites of eggs. | £ lb. icing sugar. Beat the whites very stiffly, and stir in the icing sugar, pre- viously sifted, till all is well mixed. Grease some kitchen paper, and drop the mixture in oval lumps on it, allowing space for rising. Hake in a cool oven till set (from \ hour to 3 hours). Take off the paper, scoop out the soft inside and dry in an open oven. Meringue cases can be kept for some time ki a covered tin. Meringue cases for dinners can be filled with apple- snow, light jams whisked up with white of egg, or stiffly frozen water-ices. MINCEMEAT. 1 lb. apples. 1 lb. raisins. 1 lb. sultanas. 1 lb. currants. 1 lb. suet. f lb. mixed peel. 1 lb. brown sugar. 1 lemon. Allspice. 1 wineglassful brandy or rum. Peel the apples, stone the raisins, shred the suet, and chop all the ingredients finely (except the lemon and currants). Mix well and flavour with the juice and rind of the lemon, and the allspice. Add the brandy to preserve it. If required to be kept for some time, a little melttM fat run over the top of the jar is a good preservative.101 MEAT SWEETS. NOUGAT. ^ lb. almonds. j ^ lb. lump sugar. Blanch the almonds, and cut them into thin strips, dry them in an open oven on kitchen paper. Melt the sugar in a double saucepan over the fire, without adding any water. Stir till the sugar boils. Remove it from the fire, and add the cut up almonds. Well oil some little cups or dariole moulds, and press the nougat to the shape while warm. They will slip out of the moulds when cold, and can be kept some time if placed in covered tins. NOYAU JELLY WITH APRICOTS. Gelee de Noyau aux Abricots. 1 pint of water. Juice of half lemon, pint noyau. 1 oz. isinglass. 6 oz. lump sugar. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Apricots. Place the isinglass in a stew-pan with the sugar. Wash the egg-shells, crush them, beat up the whites slightly, add the water and lemon juice, and put all to the other ingredients in the stew-pan. Put it on the fire and beat with a wire whisk till the mixture comes to the boil. Remove it from the fire, let it cool for 10 minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag or clean kitchen cloth arranged on a chair. If not perfectly clear the first time, strain it again. When quite cold, add the noyau. If fresh apricots are used, cut them in halves, cook them in syrup and drain them well. Break the stones, blanch and peel the kernels and divide them in halves. Rinse a plain mould in cold water, set it on ice or in a tin containing salt and water, pour some jelly in and let it set, then put a layer of apricot and kernels, then more jelly, continuing till the mould is full. Turn out when cold. This jelly can also be made in small moulds, putting first a layer of jelly, then one half apricot, and 2 or 3 kernels, and filling up with jelly. ORANGES AND COCOA-NUT. G oranges. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 cocoa-nut. h pint clarified sugar. Peel the oranges, divide them into strips, removing all white skin. Arrange them in a ring in a silver dish. Grate the cocoa- nut, mix with the sugar, and pile in the centre of the ring of orange. Pour cold clarified sugar over the orange.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 102 ORANGE COMPOTE. Compote cl'Oranges. 1 liqueur-glass of bran ly or | G oranges, ruin. I \ lb. loaf sugar. 1 gill of water. Boil ^ lb. loaf sugar in 1 gill of water, add the rind of 3 oranges, minced finely or cut into very narrow strips. Let all boil for 5 minutes, add a liqueur-glass of brandy or rum, and pour the syrup over 6 oranges (peeled, cored and divided into strips). Leave till cold, then pile up on a dish, pour the syrup over and serve, decorated to taste. ORANGE SNOW. I oz. isinglass. I 2 oz. castor sugar. 4 pint water. I 3 oranges. 3 egg whites. Soak the isinglass in half the cold water, and when soft, add the rest of the water boiling, the castor sugar, and a small piece of orange peel. Pass the juice of the oranges through a sieve and add it to the rest. Stir over the fire till just on boiling point, then remove, and when cold and nearly set, whisk it to a stiff froth, adding the egg whites. Pile roughly in the centre of a silver dish and decorate the edge with sponge fingers. PANCAKES. Crepes. 4 eggs. v, gill water. 3 tablespoonsful flour. Frying fat. Break the eggs into a basin, beat well, add the water, and then the flour by degrees. Let it stand when well mixed. Heat a very little fat in a small frying-pan, pour in some of the batter and fry on both sides. Boll up and serve very hot with sugar and lemon. If milk and butter can be used, take 1 gill of milk and 3 eggs instead of the above quantities of eggs and water, nd fry the pancakes in butter. PINE-APPLE FOAM. Gelec, (V A annas. 1 tin of pine-apple chunks. 1 gill best rum. 1 pint calf’s foot jelly. Juice of £ lemon. Cut the pine-apple into dice, put them in a basin with the syrup from the tin, the rum and lemon juice, then the jelly, melted and warm. Whip all to a strong froth; when nearly set, pour into a wetted mould or small fancy moulds.MEAT SWEETS. 103 PLUM PUDDING. \ ]1>. breadcrumbs. 2 oz. almonds. £ lb. currants. | lb. raisins. 5 eggs. A oz. ground spice, d lb. flour. ^ lb. mixed candied peel. >. sultanas. ). suet. a 4 “ i II 11b A grate of nutmeg. 1 wineglass of rum or brandy. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. Chop the suet finely, clean the currants, pick the sultanas, stone and chop the raisins, chop the almonds and peel. Mix all the ingredients well together, put them into greased basins or moulds, tie up in a cloth wrung out of boiling water and floured, and boil at least 8 hours. PUFF PASTRY (FOR MEAT). Feuilletage. See puff pastry, page 118, but use clarified dripping instead of butter. The dripping must bo slightly warmed, then beaten till it is quite white. Lot it stand to cool. An egg yolk mixed with the flour, lemon juice and water to make the paste, assists it to rise. RED CAP PUDDING. | lb. glace cherries. Juice of 2 lemons. 3 eggs. 1 lb. _L 2 oeef suet. ^ lb. breadcrumbs. Grease a plain mould, and cover the bottom with halves of glace cherries. Mix together the breadcrumbs, finely chopped suet, sugar, lemon juice and the eggs, well beaten. Press tho mixture firmly into the decorated mould, tie it up in a cloth and boil for 5 hours. Serve with a thin lemon sauce. RED PLUM JELLY. Gelee de Prunes Rouges. 2 lbs. red plums. | £ oz. isinglass. Loaf sugar and water. Stew the plums with the sugar to taste and pulp through a sieve. This should make nearly 1 quart of pulp. Add some of the kernels and the dissolved isinglass whilo the fruit is still hot. Pour it into a wetted border mould, and turn out when cold. The centre can be filled with whipped cream, or stiffly beaten white of egg nicely flavoured and sweetened, or with custard made with almond milk and eggs.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 104 ROTHE GRUTZE. 1 lb. red currants. 1 lb. raspberries or 2 lbs. jam. 1 quart water. Lemon peel. Vanilla. A few shredded almonds or pistacbes. Sugar to taste. 8 oz. line sago. Boil the fruit or jam in the water for £ hour, strain through a sieve and return to the saucepan with the almonds or pistaches, lemon peel, vanilla and sugar. Add the sago, which must be well soaked first, and stir all over the fire till the sago is dissolved. Pour into a wetted mould. It can be served with cream or custard. RUBY JELLY. GeUe de Fruits Rouges. \ oz. isinglass. 1 lemon. £ lb. each of red currants and strawberries. 2 egg wlii I lb. loaf sugar. I lb. raspberries. J tumbler brandy, and a little carmine, and shells. Soak the isinglass in \ pint of water, the thinly peeled rind of \ a lemon and the sugar. Put the picked fruit and the juice of the lemon into a saucepan and place it by the side of the fire till the juice flows freely. Then drain it through a sieve, and add it with the whisked whites and egg-shells to the isinglass. Whisk all quickly over the fire till it is just on the boil; then cease whisking, let it boil up once, and stand it bv the side of the fire without boiling for 20 minutes. Pass the liquid through a jelly-bag, add the brandy and a little carmine if the colour is not sufficiently deep. Pour it into a wetted mould to set. SABBATH PUDDING. ^ lb. sultanas. £ lb. stoned raisins. \ lb. chopped suet. | lb. flour. I lb. brown sugar. 1 lb. breadcrumbs. 2 eggs. Spice. Golden syrup. Mix all well together, putting enough syrup to form a stiff pudding; place in a greased mould and steam 4 hours.105 MEAT SWEETS. SAMBAYOU. X Creme Sambcigllone. 2 oz. castor sugar. | 3 eggs. 1 gill of rum or sherry. Place the sugar, egg yolks and rum or sherry in an enamelled saucepan over a very slack fire and work the mixture with a small whisk till it thickens; remove it from the fire, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and serve cold in custard glasses. f lb. suet. 2 lbs. apples. 2 oz. mixed peel, t lb. brown sugar. STEFFAN. 2 lbs. flour. lb. currants and raisins. Juice of ^ lemon. Cinnamon. Chop the suet finely, rub it into the flour with sufficient cold water to make a paste. Roll it out. Grease a pudding basin and sprinkle it thickly with brown sugar, and line the basin with paste. Chop the apples, peel, currants and raisins, and put a layer of these with cinnamon and sugar on the paste, then a layer of paste, another of apple, etc., and continue till the basin is filled. Close the top over with paste, and rub it well with brown sugar. Bake it about 2 hours, and serve hot. STRAWBERRY CUSTARDS. Creme Renversee aux Fraises. 5 1 2 eggs. lb. ripe strawberries or strawberry jam. Juice of In { lb. castor sugar. Carmine to improve necessary, df a lemon. colour if Remove the green stalks from the strawberries, place the latter in a basin, beat with a silver fork till quite liquid. Beat the egg yolks well, add the castor sugar, lemon juice and straw- berry liquid. Pour the mixture into a jug, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water and stir it over the fire till the mixture slightly thickens. Beat the egg whites to a stiff froth, add them quickly to the custard when cold, stir lightly till all is wrell mixed; pour into custard glasses, and servo cold.10G DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. FRESH STRAWBERRY JELLY. Pain de Fraises. 2 lbs. strawberries, i pint water. 3 oz. castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful brandy. h oz. isinglass. A few drops colouring. Stalk the fruit, dissolve the isinglass in half the water, place the fruit into a stew-pan with the sugar and remainder of the water, simmer till soft. Rub through a hair sieve, add the brandy and isinglass, mix well and add a few drops of colouring to improve the colour if necessary. Rinse a mould in cold water and pour the mixture in. Serve cold. Rcat the yolks of the eggs, stir in the sugar, and then the flour. Add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and the baking- powder last. Pour into 2 well buttered shallow, round tins, and bake for 10 minutes in a rather quick oven. Turn out on to a sugared board, spread one piece with jam, and put the other piece over it. VICTORIA SANDWICH. G oz. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. Jam.CREAMS, CUSTARDS, PUDDINGS, &c. ALMOND CHEESECAKES. Puff pastry. 2 oz. ground almonds. 2 oz. flour. li oz. butter. 1 oz. creme de riz. 1 egg. A few drops of almond essence. Stir all the ingredients together for 20 minutes. Line somo patty-pans with puff pastry, and fill them with tlie mixture. Lake in a sharp oven till a golden brown. AMSTERDAM PUDDING. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. ground almonds. 3 oz. castor sugar. 4 eggs. Cherries and candied peel. A wineglassful of rum. Mix the butter, almonds, sugar and egg yolks to a cream and stir in the stiffly beaten egg whites, and lastly, the rum. Decorate a buttered mould with the glace cherries and peel cut up. Fill the mould carefully with the mixture and bake it. Serve hot or cold. APPLE AMBER PUDDING. 2 lbs. good cooking apples. A little lemon rind. Castor sugar to taste. 2 eggs. 3 oz. A Hitter, ittle pastry. Peel, core and slice the apples and stew them till tender with just sufficient water to prevent them burning. Boil the lemon rind and sugar to taste with them. Remove the lemon, and beat up the pulp with 2 well beaten eggs and the warmed butter. Edge a pie-dish with pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake till tho pastry is done. Serve hot.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 108 3 lbs. apples. 1 lemon. Sugar. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Charlotte aux Famines. Cinnamon and cloves. Bread. Butter. Peel, core and quarter the apples and put them into a stew- pan with sugar to taste, a little cinnamon, and a few cloves tied up in muslin. Allow the apples to pulp and stir constantly to prevent them from burning. Reduce them to a stiff jam. Cut a piece of bread the size of the bottom of a plain mould, and some narrow pieces for the sides. Dip the pieces into melted butter and line the mould with them, brushing over the inside with beaten egg to join it well. Remove the flavourings from the apple pulp, pour it into the bread lined mould, cover with another piece of bread. Bake till crisp, turn out and dust with sifted sugar. MIGNON BATTER PUDDINGS. 2 oz. Hour. 2 egg's. Pinch of salt. ^ pint milk. Jam. Pass the flour through a sieve into a basin, add a pinch of salt; make a hole in the centre of the flour, break an egg in and beat it well into the Hour. Add the other egg and beat again, then pour in the milk gradually and beat the mixture till there are no lumps in it; leave the batter to stand for at least an hour. Butter some patty-pans well, 3 parts fill them with batter and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. Warm the jam, put a little on each small pudding, and serve at once. BEIGNETS SOUFFLES. | pint water. 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. Vienoa flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 whole eggs. 1 yolk. Few drops essence. Frying oil. Put the water, sugar and butter in a saucepan and bring it to the boil; remove from fire and stir in the Hour, beating vigorously with a wooden spoon till it is smooth; when it leaves the sides of the saucepan quite clean, remove from the fire and stir till cool, add the eggs one by one and stir the essence in well. Turn on to a plate, take small pieces in the shape of an egg and fry in hot (not boiling) oil till a golden brown, drain paper, fill with jam, or, if eaten cold, with whipped and flavoured cream, or thick custard.109 BUTTER SWEETS. RICH BOLA. 1 lb. dough. £ lb. butter. 5 oz. brown sugar. 4 oz. ground almonds. H oz. ground cinnamon. “ Hundreds 3 eggs.. f lb. mixed candied peel. 1 lb. loaf sugar. j pint water. Orange-flower water, and thousands.” Let the dough rise in a basin near the fire for about ^ an liour. Then rub the butter into it, also 1 oz. of brown sugar, the ground almonds, ^ oz. of cinnamon, and the beaten eggs. Beat the mixture well for f of an hour. Shred the peel, add to it 1 oz. cinnamon and 5 lb. brown sugar. Grease a round dish, put in a layer of dough, then a layer of the candied peel mixture, continue in layers and finish with a thin layer of dough ; ornament with large slices of citron peel and sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Boil the loaf sugar and water together till clear, flavour with orange-flower water; make holes in the hot cake with a silver skewer, pour the hot syrup over it and let the cake stand for a few days if possible, turning the dish over once or twice, so that all parts of the cake may bo saturated with syrup. CANARY PUDDING. 3 eggs, and their weight in The weight of 2 eggs in butter and castor sugar. flour. Grated rind of 1 lemon. Cream the butter and sugar together, beat in the eggs ono by one, and add the flour and lemon rind last. When thoroughly mixed, pour into a buttered mould, tie it up and boil or steam for 2 hours. Turn it out, sift sugar over it, and serve hot with wine or German sauce. CARAMEL CUSTARDS. Petites Cremes Penversees. 2 oz. castor sugar. 4 pint milk. 3 eggs. 5 or 6 drops vanilla. Lemon juice. Put 1 teaspoonful castor sugar into each dariole mould with ^ teaspoonful lemon juice. Put these on to a hot-plate, melt, brown, run the caramel round, and set them 1 minute in cold water. Beat the eggs, add sugar, milk and flavouring, and strain. Fill the dariole moulds, put them into boiling water and simmer till set. Turn out and serve hot or cold.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 110 CASTLE BASKETS. 9 P o'era Their weight in butter, castor sugar, and Eureka aerated Hour. Few drops vanilla. Apricot jam. t, gill of cream. Strips of angelica. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add a little Hour, then 1 egg, more flour, and the other egg, the remainder of the flour and the vanilla. Beat all together for 10 minutes. Butter some dariole moulds well, half fill them with the mixture, bake in a hot oven about 20 minutes. Turn them out on a wire sieve and leave them to get cold. Scoop out part of the centre, carefully cover the outsides with a puree of apricot jam, sprinkle with chopped almonds. But some apricot jam in each little cake, whip up the cream with sugar and flavouring to taste and put some of this whip on the top of each cake. Place a strip of angelica from side to side to form the basket handle and a glace cherry in the centre of the cream. CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKES. Phort pastry. ^ pint milk. 1 oz. chocolate. T7 oz. castor sugar. 9 po'era A small piece of butter. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk, add the sugar, butter and the egg yolks, and stir it over the lire till it is as smooth as thick cream. Add more milk if too thick. Line some patty- pans with the pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake them. When done, spread the top with beaten egg white and sugar, set for a minute in the oven, and serve. CHOCOLATE JELLY. Cette an Chocolat. i oz. isinglass. 1 oz. sugar. 1 quart mdk. Vanilla. 4 large t .blespoonsful grated chocolate. Rook the isinglass in the milk, add the chocolate and sugar. Boil for 10 minutes, stirring it all the time. When almost cold flavour it with vanilla, and beat thoroughly with an egg-whisk. Pour it into a wetted china mould and let it stand overnight. Turn it out, stick with cut up almonds, and pour whipped cream round it.Ill BUTTER SWEETS. G oz. sifted sugar. 5 eggs. LIGHT CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Pointing au Chocolat. 4 lb. chocolate. 1 pint milk. 12 rusks. 4 lb. butter. Vanilla. Grate the chocolate and the rusks, and boil the butter in the milk. When boiling add the chocolate and rusks, keeping back 1 large spoonful of each. Stir together 4 egg yolks, 1 whole egg and the sugar until the latter is dissolved; add a little vanilla, and mix all together. Beat the 4 egg whites to a snow, add them and the rest of the chocolate and rusks lightly to the mixture. Grease a mould well, pour in the mixture, and steam 1 hour. To be served with boiled custard or chocolate sauce. LITTLE COCOA-NUT PUDDINGS. 2 oz. fresh buiter. 2 oz. grated cocoa-nut. 4 oz. moist sugar. 2 small eggs. Grated rind of 4 lemon. Juice of 4 lemon. Melt the butter, add to it the cocoa-nut, sugar, lemon rind, and beaten eggs. Beat this mixture well together, add the strained lemon juice, place the mixture in slightly greased patty- pans, and bake for 4 an hour in a moderate oven. CREAM CODLING 2 lbs. codling apples. Sugar to taste. A little orange-flower water. TART FOR NEW YEAR. Puff pastry. Custard made with 4 yolks of eggs and 4 pint milk. Peel and core the apples, cut them in slices, add sugar to taste, a little water, and stew them till soft. Pass them through a sieve, add a little orange-flower water and leave till cold. Boll out the puff pastry (made the day before if possible) 4 of an inch thick, place strips round the wetted edge of the pie- dish, arrange the apple compote high in the middle of the dish, lay on a top-crust, ornament and bake in a hot oven. When cold, cut out a small round piece from the centre of the crust and pour in a rich, thick custard, replacing the round of pastry if liked. STEAMED COFFEE CUSTARDS. Make 4 pint very strong coffee. 2 oz. castor sugar. G yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. When the coffee is nearly cold, sweeten it, and beat in the yolks of eggs and cream; mix well, pour into small china cases and steam for 20 minutes.112 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. BOILED COFFEE CUSTARDS. Make a rich custard, flavour strongly with essence of coffee, cook in a double saucepan, and stir till thickened. Pour into custard glasses and serve cold. APRICOT Creme au.r 1 pint double cream. 1 tin apricots. 4 oz. isinglass. CREAM. A bricots. 4 gill milk. 4 lb. castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Melt the isinglass. Pub the apricots through a sieve, adding part of the syrup, slightly warm the pulp, add to it the sugar, Union juice and melted isinglass. Whip the cream and just before it thickens add the milk, mix with the other ingredients, pour into a wetted mould and leave till it sets. 4 pint of water. 2 eggs. Vanilla. CREAM BUNS. Petits Clioux a la Creme. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 4 pint cream. 1 oz. castor sugar. Put the butter and water in a small saucepan, bring it to the boil, add gradually the sieved flour, stir till quite smooth over the fire, and till it no longer sticks to the sides. Turn it out to cool and add the eggs, well beaten. Beat the mixture for 5 to 10 minutes, and then place dessertspoonsful on a greased baking-tin. Bake in a moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. Turn them on to a sieve to cool, after cutting a slit in the side. Whip, sweeten and flavour the cream and fill the buns with it through the slit, when they are cold. Dust sifted sugar over them and serve. BLACKCURRANT CREAM. Creme de Cassis. 14 oz. blackcurrant jam. 1 gill cream. Juice of half a lemon. Soak the isinglass in a teacupful of the milk. Pais the jam through a hair sieve, mix it with the rest of the milk, add the lemon juice, and then the soaked isinglass. Stir it over the fire till the isinglass is quite dissolved, strain it into a basin, and stir occasion illy. Whe i commencing to set, mix in the cream, well whisked, pour it into an earthenware mould, and turn out when set. 4 oz. isinglass. 1 pint milk.BUI TER SWEETS. 1 j 3 CHESTNUT CREAM. Creme aux Marrons. 2 lbs. chestnuts. Vanilla. £ put milk or water. (5 oz. castor sug.r. ^ p'nt double cream. Cook the chestnuts in boiling water till both skins can be removed. Then pass them through a coarse sieve and return to a clean saucepan with the milk or water well flavoured with vanilla, and the castor sugar. Stir all over the fire till the moisture is quite absorbed. When perfectly dry, rub the puree through a wire sieve, and arrange in a circle on a dish. When cool, pile well whipped and sweetened cream, flavoured with vanilla, in the centre. CHOCOLATE CREAM MOULD. Creme au Chocolat. \ oz. isinglass. iU pints milk or f pint milk and j pint cream. 3 oz. French chocolate. \ lb. lump sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilli. Soak the isinglass in the milk or milk and cream. Grate the chocolate, add the sugar and isinglass and milk; put it over the fire and let it boil up once, stirring all the time to prevent the chocolate setting. Strain it into a basin, add the vanilla, and pour into a wetted mould, when nearly cold. CREAMS A LA DUCHESSE MARIE. Creme a la Duchesse Marie. $ pint milk. £ pint double cream. U oz. cornflour. 1 oz. castor sugar. Yolks of two eggs. A few chopped ^ teaspoonful essence of vanilla. I good tablcspoonful apricot jam. 1 tablespoonful sherry or brandy. pistachio kernels. Slake a custard with the milk, cornflour and yolks of eggs, and the sugar, vanilla, jam and sherry or brandy, pass all through a hair sieve and almost fill 12 small paper or china cases with the mixture. Whip the cream very stiffly, add a teaspoonful of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla, Put it in the forcing- bag and force it on to the cases; sprinkle the tops with chopped pistachio kernels. lDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 114 FRUIT CREAMS. 4 oz. isinglass. 4 pint milk. 1 pint double crcain. Creme tie Fruits varies. 1 tinned pine-apple or 1 pot straw ben y or other jam. lb. sifted sugar. Dissolve the isinglass in 1 gill milk, add 1 gill boiling milk and stir it by the side of the fire till the isinglass is melted; add this slowly to the whipped cream, stirring the whole time, then add the flavouring. Dor a pine-apple cream, cut the pine into small pieces, add the juice and a little lemon juice and the sugar, whisk till nearly set and pour into a wetted mould. Jams must be warmed with a little water, then passed through a sieve before being added. GOOSEBERRY FOOL CREAM. 4 pint cream. I quart gooseberries. Creme tie Groscilles. Loaf sugar. A little water. Stew the gooseberries in sufficient water to cover them, and add sugar to taste. When tender, pass them through a fine sieve, stir in the cream (or half milk and cream), mix well, and serve cold. HONEYCOMB CREAM. Blancmange aux Fruits. 3 teacupxful milk. 1 teacupful castor sugar. 3 eggs. 4 oz. isinglass. 1 teaspoonfid vanilla. Glace cherries and angelica. Put the milk, isinglass, sugar and vanilla in a saucepan over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, let it cool a little, then stir in slowly the 3 yolks, well beaten, and let it come nearly to the boil. Remove from the fire and let it cool, then add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Rinse a mould out with cold water, decorate with cherries and angelica, pour the mixture carefully into it and let it get cold. LECKER CREAM. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg. H pints milk. 4 tablespoonsful flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. Grated lemon peel. 4 1b. ratafias. Beat up the yolks and white, add the milk gradually, and mix in the flour verf carefully. Add the sugar and grated lemon peel to flavour. Boil over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with the ratafias at the bottom, and strain the cream on to them. Decorate with coloured sugar.115 BUTTER SWEETS. RICE CREAM MOULD. 2 oz. rice. 2 eggs. 1 pint milk. 1 pint cream. lilts a la Creme. 3 oz. castor sugar. b oz. isinglass. b lb. strawberry jam. Flavouring. Stew the rice in the milk till quite tender. Then add the eggs well beaten, sugar, flavouring, and the isinglass dissolved in milk. Mix well while hot, and pour into a mould. Beat the cream stiffly, mix in the strawberry jam, and pour it over the mould when it is dished up. i lb. jam. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. lump sugar. [tion. Preserved fruits for decora- STONE CREAM. 1 heaped tablespoonful of arrowroot. 1 teaspoonful oraDge-fiower water. Place the jam at the bottom of a glass dish. Boil the milk and sugar together ; mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, stir it into the boiling milk, add the flavouring and stir the whole over a gentle fire for a few minutes till the arrowroot is cooked. Let it cool, pour it over the jam, and, when wanted, decorate to taste. TAPIOCA CREAM. Creme de Tapioca. 3 oz. large tapioca. Preserved fruits and pistachio 1 pint milk. kernels. 3 yolks of eggs. 1 teaspoonful casumen. 1 pint cream. 2 oz. castor sugar Soak the tapioca in boiling water, and when this is cold, strain the tapioca off and boil it in the milk with the sugar and flavour- ing. When sufficiently done and cold, beat in the casumen yolks of eggs and the cream. Pour it into a glass dish and garnish with preserved fruits and pistachios, chopped. ECLAIRS. 3 eggs. Vanilla. ^ lb. butter. 2 oz. sugar. £ pint water. 5 oz. Eureka aerated flour. Boil together the sugar, water and butter, and add the flour gradually; stir till well mixed and then let it cook slowly for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally till it leaves the sides of the Cream. Icing.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 116 pan clean. Turn it out to cool. Then add the eggs separately and the vanilla. Force them through a bag and a wide pipe on to a greased baking-tin in finger lengths (see illustration p. 9o), brush with egg, and bake \ hour. When cool, make an incision in one side, fill with whipped cream, and dip in coffee or chocolate icing. o EMPRESS PUDDING. 2 oz. l ice. 1 pint milk. 1 egg. - Riz a VImperatrice. 2 oz. castor sugar. Few drops vanilla. Jam. Wash the rice, boil it in the milk till tender, let it cool, beat in the egg, sugar and flavouring. Butter a pie-dish well, spread a layer of the rice mixture at the bottom, then a layer of jam, continue till the rice is finished. Bake about ^ an hour in a moderate oven and turn out on to a hot dish. GENOESE PASTRY. Pate Gcnoise. £ lb. Eureka aerated flour. j lb. sugar. A pinch of salt. Mix the flour, sugar, eggs and salt thoroughly together with a wooden spoon, and then add the butter melted by the side of the fire. When all is well incorporated, spread it \ inch thick on a well buttered baking-tin and bake in a moderately hot oven. The pastry can afterwards be spread with jam, cut into fancy shapes and decorated with icing and cherries, etc. 4. eggs. 4 lb. butter. GERMAN APPLE TART. 2 lbs. apples. ± lb. butter. \ lb. I rown sugar. | lb. flour. 1 egg. Grated lemon peel. Baking-powder. Mix the sugar, flour and baking-powder together, rub in the butter, add the lemon peel and moisten with the egg. Knead the paste and divide it into two. Roll it out to cover the bottom of a flat baking-tin. Put in the apples previously stewed with sugar and cover them with the other half of the paste. Pinch the edges of the paste well together, brush the top over with egg and bake. Serve hot or cold. Any other fruit, stewed as above, c an be used instead of apples.117 BUTTER SWEETS. GERMAN PUFFS or PORTLAND PUDDINGS. { lb. butter. | lb. flour. 1£ cups milk. 4 eggs. Clarified sugar. Melt the butter in the milk, heat the same into the flour, heated. Beat the eggs well and add them to the batter. Half fill small pie-cups (well buttered first) and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot with clarified sugar sauce. LEMON CHEESECAKES. 4 11*. puff pastry. | 2 oz. butter. 3 eggs. | 6 oz. sifted sugar." Rind of 1 lemon and juice of 2 lemons. Beat the eggs, add the other ingredients, and beat well. Sim- mer gently a few minutes, stirring all the time, and turn it into a jar to cool. Roll out the pastry, cut it into tartlets, cutting the centres half through with a small cutter. Bake, and remove the centres. Fill up with the lemon mixture, and warm through before serving. FRENCH PANCAKES. Crepes au Four. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. Eureka aerated flour. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. 4 pint milk. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add flour and beaten eggs alternately, then the milk and lemon juice; mix well and let it stand for an hour or so. Butter 4 saucers and half fill with the batter; bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Place a little jam in the centres and fold over, or pile them on a dish with jam between each. PINE-APPLE PUDDING. Gateau a VAnana?. 3 oz. fresh butter. , 3 eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 4 oz. preserved pine-apple. 3 oz. Eureka aerated flour. | j pint cream. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the sugar and cream. When this mixture begins to simmer, lift the pan off the fire and stir in the flour as quickly as possible; replace it on the fire and stir for about 5 minutes. Lift it again from the fire and stir the eggs in gradually; mix well and add.the pine-apple, chopped small. Butter a mould well, pour in the mixture and steam for 1 hour. Turn it out and throw over it a hot custard sauco (see p. 80) flavoured with pine-apple syrup.118 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. PINE-APPLE TRIFLE. G sponge-cakes. \ lb. macaroons and ratafias. £ a tin of pine-apple. 6 eggs. 1 pint milk. j pint cream. -j- lb. lamp sugar. Cut the sponge-cakes in halves, lay them in a deep glass or silver dish, scatter the broken up macaroons and ratafias amongst them, pour the juice from the pine-apple over and let it soak in. Cut up the pine-apple in small pieces, place them in the dish. Boil the milk and sugar, let it cool a little, beat up the eggs, pour the milk over them, stir well and pour the mixture into a jug, place this in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, stir till the custard thickens and coats the back of the spoon. Continue stirring off the fire till the custard cools a little, pour it over the trifle in the dish and ornament with little heaps of whipped cream. PINE-APPLE CREAM CAKE. Gateau avec Creme d'Ananas. 3 eggs. Their weight in butter, castor sugar and Eureka aerated flour. J pint cream. Sugar to taste, i a tin of pine-apple. Cream the butter and sugar together, add a little flour, then 1 egg, beat it in well; more flour, another egg, beating all the time, then the remainder of flour and other egg; beat for i hour. Pour the mixture into 3 well greased shallow round tins and bake in a quick oven till a skewer thrust in the middle of each cake comes out clean. Let them cool on sieves. Cut the pine-apple into small dice, whip the cream till stiff, add the pine-apple and castor sugar to taste, spread 2 cakes with the cream, place one on top of the other and cover with the third. ^ lb. flour. A lb. butter. PUFF PASTRY. Feuilletage. A little lemon juice. Cold water. Make a stiff paste with the cold water, flour and lemon juice and roll it out on a marble slab with a glass rolling-pin. Spread half the butter in little pieces on the paste, fold it over from both ends and roll it out carefully in an oblong shape. Let it stand 10 minutes, use up the rest of the butter, fold over and roll out. Let it stand 10 minutes. Then roll it out at intervals of 10 minutes, folding it in 3 each time until 7 turns or rollings have been given altogether. It improves by standing a fewBUTTER SWEETS 119 9. -VIENNESE CHOCOLATE CAKE. (Page 123.) 10. —FORMING PUFF PASTRY CORNETS. (P,/;/; 120.) x.-CORNETS FILLED WITH CREAM. {Paje 120.)120 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. hours before being used. In summer it is advantageous to stand the pastry in a tin over ice between tbe rollings. To make Cornets, roll the pastry out thin and cut it in strips about 2 inches wide. Grease the outside of the comet moulds, place the strips carefully round them (see illustration p. 119), lay the moulds on a greased baking-tin, and bake the pastry in a quick oven about 10 minutes. Remove the cornet moulds, let the pastry get cold, then fill with whipped, sweetened, and flavoured cream, or jam and cream to taste. 1 French roll. 4 pint milk. 4 eggs. PURIM FRITTERS. Clarified sugar. “ Hundreds and thousands.’’ Salad oil. Remove the crust from the roll, cut the crumb in 1, inch thick slices, boil the milk, soak the bread in it, but do not let the slices break. Beat up the eggs in a shallow dish, dip the soaked slices of bread in the eggs. Half fry the slices in boiling salad oil; remove them from the oil, dip them again in milk and eggs, then fry them till they are golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper, arrange them on a glass or silver dish, and pour hot clarified sugar over them. Serve cold, decorated with hundreds and thousands. RICE MOULD. | lb. rice. 1 quart milk. 2 oz. butter. 4 a lemon. 5 eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. Wash the rice, and boil it in the milk till it is soft. Add the grated rind of half a lemon and the castor sugar. When it has cooled, add the 5 yolks well beaten, 1 oz. of butter, and, lastly, the stiffly beaten whites. Butter a cake tin thickly, sprinkle with biscuit crumbs, put in the mixture, and bake it for 1 hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot, and turn it out of the tin. ROYAL | lb. Savoy biscuits, or sponge-cakes. 2 oz. ratafias. 2 oz. jam. pint milk. TRIFLE. 4 pint double cream. 2 eggs. Candied fruits and cherries. 4 glass brandy and sherry. A little sugar, and lemon juice. Lay the ratafias at the bottom of a deep glass dish and sprinkle them with brandy. Put on these a layer of sponge- cakes spread with jam and sprinkled with sherry. Boil the milk, and pour it over the beaten eggs, sweeten it, and boil it up gently until it thickens slightly. Pour this over the biscuits. Decorate the top with whipped cream and ornament with candied fruit and cherries,121 BUTTER SWEETS SLIPPERY PUDDING. 4 eggs. 10 lumps sugar. Creme re nr cr see. Kinds of 2 lemons, steeped for half an hour in 1 pint boiling milk. Beat up the eggs, pour the milk on them (it should be nearly boiling); pour into a buttered basin and steam for 1 hour and then stand the pudding with a plate over the basin to set for ^ an hour on the stove before turning it out. Sauce. £ 11). white sugar. Juice of 2 lemons. Wineglassful water. Wineglassful sherry. Warm all together, but do not let it come to the boil. 1 lb. flour. £ lh. ground almonds. £ lb. orange and lemon peel. 3 lbs. loaf sugar. Orange-flower water. SIESTA CAKE. 2 oz. Jordan almonds. 1 lh. butter. 4 lb. citron peel. (3 eggs. 1 <h ssert spoonful baking-powder 1 teacup of milk. Melt the butter, beat up the eggs, add them, and gradually mix in the flour, ground almonds, and milk, the baking-powder and a pinch of salt. Beat it thoroughly for 1 hour with the hand. Cut the peel up finely. Butter a round dish, put in first a layer of the dough, then a layer of sliced citron peel, then dough, then orange peel, etc., and continue till the in- gredients are used up. Make the layers lightly, and finish with the dough. Put it in a moderate oven as soon as it is ready and bake for 1 hour. Cook the loaf sugar with 1 pint of water and flavour it with orange-flower water. This must be ready as a strong syrup when the cake comes out of the oven, as it must be poured over hot. Ornament the top with blanched and browned almonds and strips of citron. Pour more syrup over when it is soaked in and strew the top with hundreds and thousands before serving. It is improved by standing in syrup for a day. ALMOND SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Amenities. Few drops almond essence. 2 dessertspoonsful castor sugar. 4 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | pint milk. Melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the milk and stir well. Remove from the fire, add the sugar and flavouring, beat in the yolks of 3 eggs and add the stiffly-beaten whites of 4. Pin a band of sandwich-paper round the top of the souffle-dish, pour in the mixture and bake in a very hot oven 10 to 13 minutes. Serve immediately. To make Coffee Souffle, substitute 4 gill strong coffee for the almond essence,122 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. BURNT ALMOND SOUFFLE. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. Eureka aerated flour oz. castor sugar. 1 n Souffle aux Amancles Pralinees. 10 drops vanilla essence. U gills milk. 3 eggs, oz. burnt almonds. Melt half the sugar with a few drops of water in a stew-pan, stir till it becomes light brown, pour in the milk and boil up, stirring frequently. Melt the butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon and add gradually the prepared milk. Stir till it forms a smooth paste, then mix in the rest of the sugar; pound the almonds and add them. Allow the mixture to cool a little, then stir in the yolks of eggs one by one, beat well and add vanilla. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix them in lightly but thoroughly. Butter a plain mould, pin a hand of buttered paper round edge, pour in mixture and steam for about 40 minutes. POTATO SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Pommes de Terre. 1 tablespoonful potato flour. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. ^ [lint milk. Flavouring to taste, fl eggs. £ teaspoonful casumen. Mix the potato flour, casumen and sugar with the milk, put it into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till it boils. Remove it from the fire and flavour the mixture to taste; beat up the yolks of the eggs with a little sugar and add them, then mix in lightly the stiffly beaten whites. Pour into a buttered souffle-dish and bake for ^ an hour in x quick oven. THATCHED PUDDING. 2 oz. buffer. £ pint milk. 4 eggs. 3 dessertspoonsful flour. Rind of 1 lemon. 2 oz. sifted sugar. 2 tablespoonsful apricot jam. 2 tablespoonsful strawberry jam. 1 oz. sweet almonds. Melt the butter. Mix the flour with a little cold milk to a smooth paste, pour over it the remainder of the milk boiling hot; add the sugar, butter, grated lemon rind, and mix all well together. When cool, stir in the yolks of eggs, well beaten ; add the whites, whisked to a stiff froth and stirred in the last thing before putting the pudding in the oven. Bake for 20 minutes ; when done, turn it out of the pie-dish, spread the two jams over in alternate quarters and ornament with almonds.BUTTER SWEETS. 123 VANILLA SLICES. Pate a la Vanille. Puff pastry (page 118). 1 dessertspoonful cornflour. ^ pint milk. Yolks of 2 eggs. White of 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Bake the puff pastry in two slices, let it get cold, and spread it with the following mixture:—Mix the cornflour smooth with the cold milk, stir it over the fire till it boils, remove it from the fire and stir in the yolks and white of egg, the sugar and essence of vanilla. Let it heat through again but not boil, then allow it to get almost cold before spreading on the pastry; cut the latter into neat slices and ice the top lightly if liked. VIENNESE CHOCOLATE CAKE. Known as Sach'er Tortc. 5 oz. butter. 5 oz. castor sugar. 5 oz. Vienna flour. 5 oz. chocolate. G eggs. Apricot jam. Place the chocolate on a plate and warm it in the oven till your finger makes an impression on it. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, acid the yolks of the eggs and beat for \ an hour, then add the flour gradually, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs. Grease 2 Victoria sandwich tins well, divide the mixture between the two and bake for about an hour. Let the cakes get cold, then spread one thickly with apricot jam that has been warmed, place the other cake on top and cover the whole with the following chocolate icing:—Warm \ lb. chocolate as before, beat it up with a tablespoonful of cocoa-powder and a little hot water. Stir over the fire till smooth and when boiling mix in ^ lb. icing sugar ,remove from the fire and stir for \ an hour till it is cold. Should it be too solid add a few drops of hot water, if too liquid add a little more icing sugar, but in either case beat it another 10 minutes. Decorate to taste. WAFER CORNETS A LA CREME. Gavffres a la Creme. 2 eggs. | The weight of 2 eggs in sugar. The weight of 1 egg in flour. Mix all the ingredients well together, and then drop with a teaspoon on to an oiled baking-sheet. When half baked, twist into cornet shapes or put round a cornet mould and finish in a cool oven. Serve cold filled with whipped cream, or with white of egg beaten up with sugar and flavouring.SAVOURIES. <* ANCHOVY MAYONNAISE TOASTS. Crdutes d'Anchois en Mayonnaise. 2 or 3 slices bread. Tartare sauce. Anchovy paste. Watercress or mustard and cress. Cut 2 or 3 thin slices of stale bread, stamp them out in rounds or diamond shapes, fry them in boiling fat or oil, drain them on kitchen paper, spread them with a little anchovy paste. Make a little tartare sauce (see page 86), spread each piece of fried bread with it, form into sandwiches, and serve with water- cress or mustard and cress. ANCHOVIES ON TOAST. Crdutes d'A-nchois. Strips of toast spread with marrow. Choppec 6 anchovies. 1 hard-boiled egg. parsley. Dip the anchovies quickly in and out of hot water, then in cold water, scrape and bone them, put them between 2 plates in the oven to heat. Lay half an anchovy on each strip of toast, decorate alternately with yolk and white of egg, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. ARTICHOKES WITH HORSERADISH SAUCE. Fonds d,' Art i chants, Sauce Raifort. 1 bottle of artichoke bottoms. Breadcrumbs. 1 egg. Frying fat. Horseradish sauce, and horseradish. Throw the artichoke bottoms into boiling water, and boil for 15 minutes, but not longer, or they will turn black. Drain them at once, and wipe them dry. When cool, cover each one with egg and breadcrumb and fry in deep hot fat. Garnish with shredded horseradish, and serve with horseradish sauce.SAVOURIES, 125 MOCK CAVIAR. 6 washed and boned ancho- A pinch of cayenne, vies. A pinch of salt. 1 teaspoonful dried parsley. A squeeze of lemon juice. Olive oil. Rub the mortar across 2 or 3 times with a fresh clove of garlic, pound the anchovies in it, adding the parsley, cayenne, salt, lemon juice and enough olive oil to make it into a smooth butter. Spread it on small dry biscuits and decorate to taste. CUCUMBER SAVOURY. Bouchees de Concombre. 1 cucumber. The breast of a cold cooked 2 or 3 large tomatoes. chicken. Mayonnaise sauce. Peel the cucumber, leaving alternate strips peeled and un- peeled, cut it into thick slices and scoop the centre out with a cutter, leaving only the rim; put each piece on a slice of tomato and fill the centre with cold chopped chicken mixed stiffly with Mayonnaise sauce. A few strips of celery or a few chopped capers are an improvement. EGG AND ANCHOVY IN PASTE. Futures d’A nchois. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Trimmings of puff paste. G anchovies. Frying fat. Cayenne. Cut each egg in 6 slices; dip the anchovies in boiling water, scrape them and remove the bones. Cover one side of the slices of egg with the anchovies, dust over with cayenne, roll the pastry as thin as possible, cut with a round pastry-cutter. Place a slice of egg and anchovy on a round of paste, brush the edges with beaten egg, place another round of paste on top, press the edges firmly together, drop in smoking hot fat, fry 4 to 5 minutes, drain on kitchen paper. EGGS A LA BONNE FEMME. Oeufs d la Bonne Femme. G hard-boiled eggs. Cold chicken or veal. Smoked beef. Beetroot and celery. Thick Mayonnaise sauce or gravy. Lettuce. Boil 6 eggs hard, put them in cold water to cool, then shell them carefully, cut them in half across, remove the yolks and126 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. cut off cacli the pointed tip of white to make them stand flat. Cut into tiny dice some cold chicken or veal, some smoked beef, a little beetroot and celery, and the yolks of tbe eggs. Bind these together either with thick Mayonnaise sauce or some good strong gravy. Fill the whites with the mixture, piling it high in the centre. Arrange lettuce or endive on a dish and place the eggs round. DO MOULDED EGGS. Oafs C eggs. 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg. Chopped parsley. cu caisscs. Grated tongue or Bounds of marrow. smoked beef, toast, spread with Grease 6 dariole moulds, sprinkle them alternately with parsley, grated meat and sieved yolk of egg. Break an egg into each without breaking the yolk. Place the moulds in boiling water and cook till set. Turn out on to the toast and serve hot, gar- nished with parsley. TOMATO EGGS. Oeufs farcis ciux tomates. 4 hard-boiled eggs. 8 anchovies. 3 tomatoes. Breadcrumbs. 2 oz. clarified fat. Cut the eggs in half and remove the yolks. Place the yolks in a basin with an equal quantity of tomato pulp and a small piece of butter. Pound them all together, and season with salt and cayenne. Stir it over the fire till hot, and then fill each half white with the mixture. Decorate with 2 fillets of anchovy on each egg and serve on a bed of browned breadcrumbs, heated with dripping, pepper and salt. FOIE-GRAS. 3 oz. smoked beef. Truffles. 6 oz. liver or poultry livers. Seasoning and a little stock. Cook the liver, smoked beef, and seasoning in a very little stock for 10 to 15 minutes. Then pound them in a mortar and pass through a sieve. Add some chopped truffles and put in a jar for use'. HERRING ROES A LA RUSSE. Laitances (Vharengs a la 1lusse. Take some soft herring roes, wash them carefully in cold salt and water, then put them in a pie-dish with 3 or 4 laurel leaves. Boil 3 tablespoonsful of French vinegar with a pint of water and 8 to 10 peppercorns, then strain it on to the rocs; coverSAVOURIES. 127 the dish with a piece of greased paper, put it in a moderate oven and let the roes cook for 10 minutes, then remove them from the oven and leave till cold. Cut some peeled cucumber in dice and mix it with half its bulk in capers, season well with salad oil. Place h a tablespoonful on a round of toast in a little pile, put a prepared roe on top, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve. The vinegar liquor can be used several times. HERRING OR MACKEREL ROE TOAST. Laitances de maquereau. 4 fresh roes. Juice of 4 lemon. 1 tablespoonful salmon. 1 tablespoonful oil. \ gill thick white sauce, cooked 1 teaspoonful sherry. A pinch of cayenne and nutmeg. Fried bread or toast. Cook the roes gently in the butter or oil and lemon juice, drain and cut them into dice. Sieve the salmon and mix it with the other ingredients. Heat all together, stir in the roes, and pile on hot toast or fried bread cut in strips. (The salmon can be omitted.) Fried croutons. 2 cooked kippers. 2 hardboiled eggs. KIPPER SAVOURY. Croutes d'harengs fumes. Cayenne. Capers, cucumber or tomato for decoration. 1 teaspoonful salad oil. Pound the meat of the kippers with 1 hard-boiled yolk, and the oil; season with cayenne, and rub through a wire sieve. Fry the small croutons in butter or oil, and spread thickly with the paste. Decorate with egg yolk passed through a sieve, and with either capers, cucumber or tomatoes to taste. Poultry livers. 1 sprig parsley. 1 button onion. 1 blade mace. LIVER TOAST. Canapes de Foie. 5 oz. clarified dripping. Salt, pepper, cayenne. Lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful red currant jelly. £ pint stock or water. Simmer the livers for i an hour in the stock or water, adding the parsley, mace and onion. Drain them and pound them smoothly with the dripping, flavouring it with salt, pepper, cayenne, red currant jelly and lemon juice. Heat it all and spread on fried croutons, garnishing them with chopped white of egg.123 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES MARROW BONES WITH TOAST. Saw the bones in halves, trim neatly and cover them with a stiff paste made with 1^ lbs. flour and some water. Tie the bones up in a cloth and put them into a saucepan in plenty of boiling water and a little salt and boil for 2^ hours. Remove the cloth and the paste, fasten a clean napkin round each bone, arrange on a dish and serve with strips of dry toast round. MARROW PATTIES. Puff pastecases(seepage 103). 1 beef marrow bone. H gills brown sauce (see page 78). 1 shallot, i oz. glaze. 1 wineglass sherry. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Make a paste of tlour and water, cover the top of the marrow bone with it and boil till the marrow is set. Split the bone, take out the marrow, scald the latter, and then put it in cold water till required. Chop the shallot finely, put it with the sauce, glaze and sherry, and boil till reduced to half the quantity. Cut the marrow into small squares, add it and the parsley to the sauce, put it aside till cold, then fill the puff paste cases with it. SAVOURY MARROW TOAST. Marrow. 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs or chopped parsley. Cayenne or curry powder. 1 hard-boiled egg yolk. Toast or fried bread. Blanch the marrow by putting it into cold water and a little salt, letting it come to the boil, and turning it instantly into cold water till wanted. Then pound it with a seasoning of mixed herbs or chopped parsley, cayenne or curry powder and the hard-boiled yolk. (1 yolk to every 2 tablespoonsful marrow.) Spread when smooth on rounds of toast or fried bread, sprinkle with browned breadcrumbs and heat in the oven, protecting it with greased paper. SMOKED ROE SAVOURIES. Laitances fumees. (1) Spread some squares of hot toast ra'hu thickly with smoked cod’s roe, place a poached egg on top, sprinkle with pepper, and serve at once. (2) Hang the smoked roe up in a muslin bag in the kitchen. When sufficiently hard it can be grated and spread on squares of fried bread; a grilled mushroom on each square would make a good finish.129 SAVOURIES SOFT ROES ON TOAST. Croutes de Laitances. Poacli the roes in boiling water for a few minutes, make a slice of toast, spread it with marrow, cut it in fingers, lay one roe on each, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve hot. SARDINE BISCUITS. Canapes de Sardines. 6 sardines. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 teaspoonful mustard. Watercress. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful Worcester sauce. 1 teaspoonful salad oil. Water biscuits. Take the skin and bones from 6 sardines; put the sardines in a basin with a teaspoonful of made mustard, the same of lemon juice and AVorcester sauce, beat all together, then add, gradually, 1 teaspoonful of best salad oil. When the mixture is smooth spread it on small crisp water biscuits, garnish with yolks of hard-boiled eggs passed through a sieve and surround with watercress. DEVILLED SARDINES. Sardines d la Diable. 4 sardines. | Toast or crofitons. Cayenne. Skin and remove the bones of the sardines and dust them liberally with cayenne pepper. Put 2 teaspoonsful of the oil in which they were packed, in a small frying-pan, and let them get very hot. Remove them carefully and lay each on a strip of hot toast or fried bread and serve very quickly. DEVILLED SARDINES (Another Method). Sardines d la Diable, 6 boneless sardines. Cayenne. Mustard. Hot toast. Lemon. Skin 6 boneless sardines, spread some made mustard and a dash of cayenne on each side of them, grill them, lay them on fingers of hot toast or strips of bread fried in oil, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve hot. R130 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. SARDINE SAVOURY. Bouchees de Sardines. 1 saltspoonful French mus- tard, lemon juice, chopped gherkin ami parsley. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. chopped lax. 2 oz. boneless sardines. 1 dessertspoonful oil. Anchovy biscuits, or fried croutons and anchovy paste. Pound all except the egg whites smoothly and rub through a wire sieve. Serve on anchovy biscuits or on fried croutons spread with anchovy paste. Garnish with chopped aspic and white of egg, and with strips of beetroot, cucumber or mustard and cress. TOMATO BASKETS. Corbcilles de Tomates. Small tomatoes. Essence of anchovy. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Parsley. Take as many small tomatoes as you may require, scoop out the middles; mix 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs with a little of the inside of the tomatoes and add a little essence of anchovy. Pub all through a hair sieve, fdl up the tomatoes and garnish with hard-boiled white of egg. Make handles with parsley stalks and decorate with parsley. SAVOURY TOASTS A LTTALIENNE. Croules d l'ItaUanne. Fried croutons. Cold chicken or veal. Boned anchovies. Parsley. Tomato puree. Fry some croutons of bread in boiling oil till crisp, place a boned and rolled anchovy on each. Warm soae finely shredded cooked chicken or veal between two plates over boiling water, place some on each crouton and sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top; make a thick tomato puree, slightly flavour it with tarragon vinegar, and pour it boiling hot round the croutons.CREAM AND WATER ICES. *-C-* — HINTS ON ICE MAKING. Ices can be made in a milk-can stood in an ordinary pail, if no proper freezer is obtainable. The can must not be quite filled, as the mixture expands as it freezes. The lid must fit tightly to keep the salt freezing mixture out. The lid must also be removed occasionally and the mixture stirred from the sides to the middle to insure the whole mass being equally frozen. Stand the filled milk-can in a pail, and pack it round with ice and salt, in the proportion of twice as much ice as salt. About 6 lbs. of rough ice are required to 1 pint of the mixture to be frozen. Cover the pail to prevent the ice melting too rapidly. APRICOT ICE Creme Glacee aux CREAM. A bricots. 1 lb. fresh apricols. Juice of 2 lemons. 10 oz. castor sugar. O 3 egg yolks. 1 pint milk. ^ pint cream. Blanch and pound 12 apricot kernels and let them stand for 2 hours with the lemon juice and an equal quantity of water. Strain off the liquor, add 5oz. sugar to it and the apricots, and stew gently till the fruit is soft. Pass it through a hair sieve, and pour on to it a custard made with the eggs, milk and 5 oz. sugar; add the cream whipped, mix well and freeze. APRICOT WATER ICE. 1 lb. ripe apricots. 1 lb. loaf sugar boiled in 1 Glace aux A bricots. A few drops bitter almond essence. 8 lumps of sugar rubbed on a lemon rind. pint water to a syrup. Boil the apricots in ^ pint of syrup, then rub them through a hair sieve into a basin. Add a few drops of almond essence, the 8 lumps of sugar, and the rest of the syrup. When cool, put it in a closed tin or mould and freeze it. K 2132 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. BANANA ICE. 6 ripe bananas. I 1 lemon. 1 pint sweetened cream. I 1 tablespoonful liqueur. Rub the bananas through a sieve, discarding all discoloured parts. Mix them with the sweetened cream, add the liqueur and lemon juice and freeze. Fill the half or whole banana skins with the ice; and serve. BROWN BREAD ICE. Creme Glacee au Pain Bis. 4 pint brown breadcrumbs. 1 tablespoonful noyau essence. b oz. castor sugar. \ pint milk. i pint cream. Bake the crumbs till crisp in the oven with 2 oz. of the sugar. Boil the milk and remainder of the sugar, pour it over the baked breadcrumbs. When a little cool, add the liqueur and stiffly whipped cream, and freeze as usual. BISCUIT ICE. Biscuit Glace. 3 stale sponge-cakes. 4 oz. ratafias. J,- pint cream. £ pint milk. 5 oz. castor sugar. 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 1 liqueur glass of Cura^oa. Pound the ratafias and sponge-cakes and pass them through a hair sieve. Make a custard with the cream, milk, eggs and sugar, strain it and let it get cold. Then add the Cura^oa and freeze. When half frozen add the crumbs, mix well and finish freezing. CARAMEL ICE CREAM. Glace Caramel. 2 oz. granulated sugar. 1 pint cream. 4 pint of milk. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 dessertspoonful vanilla essence. Put the castor sugar into a small frying-pan and stir it over the fire till it melts, turns brown, and boils. Watch it carefully, for if overcooked it becomes sugary. Turn the cooked sugar into the boiling milk, to which the granulated sugar has been added, stir it over the fire for a minute, and let it cool. When cold, add the cream whipped, with the vanilla essence. Mix thoroughly and freeze as usual.CREAM AND WATER ICES. 133 CHERRY WATER ICE. Stalk and stone the cherries, and pound the kernels in a mortar. Pass them through a sieve together with the fruit. Allow \ lb. castor sugar to each ^ pint of pulp, and add finally a little lemon juice. Freeze in the usual way. The flavour of the kernels should be rather pronounced, and if not strong enough a few drops of almond essence or kirsehwasser will improve it. CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE. Creme Glacee au Chocolat. 3 oz. chocolate. 3 egg yolks. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 pint of cream. Ice and freezing salt. Dissolve the chocolate in a little wate'r over the fire, add the sugar and work it till very smooth with a wooden spoon. Peat the egg yolks, and pour the hot chocolate on as quickly as possible. Mix thoroughly by beating with a whisk. Strain through a hair sieve, add the whipped cream, and fraeze when cold. COCOA-NUT ICE. 3 egg yolks. 1 pint milk. 6 oz. castor sugar. 4 pint cream. 4^ oz. freshly grated cocoa-nut. Make a custard with the eggs, milk and sugar, and add the cocoa-nut. When it is cold, add the cream, well whipped. Freeze, and serve. COFFEE ICE CREAM. Creme Glacee au Cafe. $ pint strong coffee. j lb. sugar. | pint water. ^ pint thick cream. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes, add the coffee. When cold, add the cream, well whipped. Mix and freeze. For iced coffee only half freeze the mixture. LEMON CREAM ICE. Creme Glacee aux Citrons. j pint thick cream. 3 lemons. G oz. sugar. 4 pint water. Boil the sugar, water and thinly peeled lemon rind together. Strain when cold, and add \ pint of lemon juice and the well whipped cream. Mix thoroughly and freeze,m DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. GINGER ICE. Creme Glacee au Gingembre. H pints rich custard. 2 tablespoonsful syrup of the 2 oz. preserved ginger. ginger. ^ pint cream. Cut the preserved ginger into small pieces and add it to the custard, with the syrup also. Whip the cream stiffly and add it lightly to the mixture. Stir it occasionally till it is quite cold, and set it to freeze. GOOSEBERRY FOOL ICE. 1 quart gooseberries. A little water. Loaf sugar. 3 eggs. Ice and freezing salt. Stalk and tail the gooseberries, and stew them in sufficient water to cover them, with sugar to sweeten them, till tender. Pass them through a fine sieve, and mix with the well beaten yolks of egg. Freeze, and serve. GREENGAGE WATER ICE. Glace aux Reine-Claude. 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1^ pints water. 18 ripe greengages. Proceed as for apricot Juice of 1 lemon and 1 orange. 1 dessertspoonful orange-flower water. water ice. ICE PUDDING. Creme Glacee aux Frui's. \ pint cream. 4 yolks of eggs. Castor sugar. | pint milk. Candied fruits. Vanilla. Make a custard with the yolks, milk and sugar to taste, being very careful not to let it boil, in case it curdles. Add vanilla, and when cool, stir in the cream, and the candied fruits cut small. Pour the mixture into a closed mould and stand it for 2 or 3 hours in a pail, packing it round with ice and freezing salt,CREAM AND WATER ICES. 135 LEMON WATER ICE. Gloce aux Citrous. 4 lemons. | 1 pint water. 4 lb. loaf sugar. j 2 egg whites. Peel 2 lemons very thinly and put the rinds into the cold water, add the sugar and boil for 10 minutes. When cold, add the juice of 4 lemons. Strain the mixture, add the stiffly beaten egg whites, and pour into the freezer. ICE MERINGUES. Meringues Glace.es. Meringues | Cream or water ice. Have some well flavoured cream or water ice, preferably straw- berry, vanilla or coffee. Fill each half of the meringues with the ice just before serving, and join them together. MUSCOVITE CREAM ICE. Masco rile Glcicee. Fresh strawberries or 1 lb. jam. £ pint milk. Sugar to taste. £ pint cream. 1 liqueur glass maraschino. 4 egg yolks. Ice, freezing salt. 4 oz. isinglass. A little vanilla. Make a pint of puree by crushing the strawberries through a sieve, or use the jam. Sweeten to taste. Make a custard with the milk, egg yolks and a little sugar, and dissolve the isinglass in it while hot. Let it cool, add the fruit puree, a little vanilla, and more sugar if desired. Set the basin on ice and whisk it well. As soon as it begins to set, stir in the stiffly whipped cream and the maraschino. Put it into a mould or tin and freeze. PEACH WATER ICE. 1 11). loaf sugar. 14 pints water. G ripe peaches. Glace aux Peekes. Juice .of 1 lemon and 1 orange. Orange rind rubbed off on lump of sugar. proceed as for apricot water ice,136 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. PINE-APPLE WATER ICE. Glace a VAnanas. 1 11). loaf sugar. 1 pint water. Pine-apple to wei gli f lb. when peeled. Juice of 1 lemon. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes. Pound the pine-apple to a fine paste, add to it the lemon juice and boiled syrup, mix all well together, rub through a hair sieve, and freeze. • PISTACHIO ICE. 24 oz. pistachio nuts. 4 pint custard. £ pint cream. Ice and freezing salt. Pound the pistachio nuts finely and pass them through a wire sieve. Mix the custard, which should be sweetened, with the nuts, and then add the cream, stiffly whipped. If necessary to improve the colour, add a few drops of apple or spinach green. Freeze in the usual manner. £ lb. almonds. G oz. castor sugar, PRALINE ICE. Glace Pralinee. Yolks of 3 eggs. 4 pint cream, pint milk. Blanch the almonds, put them on a tin in the oven till a pale coffee colour, pound them in a mortar with 4 oz. sugar, adding a spoonful or two of milk during the process. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, 1 gill of cream and the milk ; pour it boiling hot on the burnt almond paste; when cold, add a gill of whipped cream and freeze at once. PUNCH A LA ROMAINE. 1 lb. sugar. 1 glass rum or kirschwasser, G lemons. 2 whites of egg. 1 pint syrup. Ice and freezing salt. Strain the lemon juice into a stew-pan, add the sugar and 14 pints of water and the thinly cut rind of 1 lemon. Boil up, skim, simmer for a few minutes, strain, lot it cool and freeze it in a freezing pan packed round with ice and salt. In tho meantime heat up the syrup, beat the egg whites stiffly, and mix them with the syrup when it has reduced a little and is still actually boiling. Remove from the fire and stir until cool. Now add the rum or kirsch, add it to the ice and mix thoroughly. This punch must not be frozen stiffly. Serve in punch glasses or goblets.137 CREAM AND WATER ICES. RASPBERRY AND CURRANT WATER ICE. Glace rouge. 1 pint fruit. \ lb. loaf sugar. It pint water. 1 egg white. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes to make a thick syrup. Strain it, and add it, when cold, to the fruit which has been rubbed through a sieve. Mix and add the egg white, stiffly beaten. Freeze and serve. SORBET AU RHUM. 8 large lemons. ^ lb. lump sugar. 2 wineglassesful best rum. 1 pint boiling water. Wash and dry the lemons thoroughly, peel them thinly, so that none of the white pith comes away. Place the peel in a deep basin, add to it the sugar and water, stir slowly till quite dissolved, and leave till cold. Then add the juice of 6 lemons and 4 drops essence of lemon. Strain through a hair sieve into the freezer, and when nearly frozen, add the rum, mixing it in lightly but thoroughly. Pile up in tall custard glasses and serve at once. STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. Glace aux Fraises. | lb. loaf sugar. 1£ pints of water. 1 lemon. 1 lb. fresh strawberries. Boil the sugar and f pint of water together, and then add ^ pint of cold water and the juice of 1 lemon. Pass the straw- berries through a sieve and add them to the mixture. Freeze when cold. TANGERINE WATER ICE. Glace aux Tangerines. 0 Tangerine oranges. 1 pint water. ^ lb. loaf sugar. 2 egg whites. Pub some of the lumps of sugar on the rinds of the tangerines. Boil all the sugar to a syrup in the water for about 10 minutes. AVhen cold, add the strained juice of the tangerines. Whisk the egg whites stiffly, add them to the mixture, and freeze.138 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES VANILLA ICE CREAM. Creme Glacee a la Vanille. 2 eggs. ; }j pint milk or almond milk. ^ lb. loaf sugar. I Vanilla. 5 oz. isinglass. Put all the ingredients with the exception of the vanilla into a jug. Stand it in a saucepan of boiling water and stir till it is thick and creamy. When cold, strain and flavour with vanilla. Mix well and freeze. STRAWBERRY CREAM ICE. Creme Glacee aux Fraises. Can be made like the vanilla ice using ^ lb. fresh strawberries instead of the vanilla. Half the strawberries can be crushed and the rest put in whole.SWEETMEATS. The following recipes for making sweetmeats are given because they do not require any special apparatus. For sweet making proper, a sugar-boiling thermometer, aluminium saucepans, special moulds, etc., are necessary. The simple sweatmeats here given want only the best quality sugar, paste colours instead of liquid colours, and a few essences and flavourings. The recipe given for fondants is the foundation for most sweets. ICED ALMONDS. Beat the white of 1 egg with sufficient finely sifted icing sugar to make it thick (using at least 4 oz.). Colour half of this pink, and leave the other half white. Blanch some Jordan almonds and dip each one in the mixture till well and roughly coated. Set them in a cool oven on a baking-sheet, taking care they do not colour. CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 4 lb. grated chocolate. 1 breakfastcupful brown sugar. | breakfastcupful milk. 2 tablespoonsfid treacle. 1 oz. butter. Boil all the ingredients together till it thickens. After 20 to 30 minutes boiling, drop a little into cold water, and if it sets, the mixture is ready. Pour into well buttered dishes, and cut into squares when it begins to set. Coffee caramels are made by using coffee essence and cream (about 1 gill) instead of the grated chocolate. COCOA-NUT KISSES. 1 lb. loaf sugar. ^ oz. butter, f gill water. Desiccated cocoa-nut. Boil the sugar and water together till it becomes spun sugar, when a spoon is dipped in and the sugar dropped from it. Add the butter with the pan off the fire, keep it off and stir the mixture against the sides of the saucepan till it becomes cloudy. Then add the cocoa-nut and take it quickly out of the saucepan with a spoon, putting small pieces on to paper. It dries and hardens very quickly. If desired to have it coloured, mix in the colouring before adding the butter. For cocoa-uut ice, press the mixture firmly into a box or straight mould,DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 140 EVERTON TOFFEE. 14 lbs. brown sugar. | 4 pint of water. | lb. butter. Boil the sugar and water together for 20 minutes, then stir in the butter and let it boil for another 10 minutes, when it should be ready. Test it by dropping a little into cold water. If quite brittle under this test, pour at once on to a flat buttered dish. When it begins to set, mark it in squares with a knife, and divide when cold. FONDANTS. 1 egg white. Flavouring. 4 to 6 oz. icing sugar. Colouring. Put the egg white into a basin, and stir in finely sifted icing sugar till the mixture is very smooth and stiff. Flavour it with vanilla, coffee, rose, lemon or almond essence, and colour with a small quantity of paste colour. Knead it well on a sugared slab or board, and mould it into balls or shapes. This is for fillings for chocolates, fruits, walnuts, etc. Crystallised fondants are made by rolling the balls into crystallised coloured sugar. They can also be coated with desiccated cocoa-nut. ALMOND FONDANTS. 'Make the cream as directed in the recipe for fondants. Flavour and colour variously. Blanch some almonds, chop them slightly, and mix with the cream. Form them into oval shapes, and roll in granulated sugar. Another method: Blanch the almonds and cover each whole one with the fondant mixture, and roll in granulated sugar. CHERRY FONDANT CREAMS. Flavour some fondant mixture with cherry-brandy or kirsch, and roll it into small balls. Halve some large glace cherries, fill them with the fondant ball, and press the two halves together. Insert a stem of a thin strip of Angelica, and tie them in bunches of twos and threes. CHOCOLATE FONDANTS. 4 oz. best plain chocolate. Almonds. Fondant mixture. Ginger, etc. Put the chocolate into a jam-pot and stand it in a saucepan of water till it is melted. The chocolate must not get heated,141 SWEETMEATS. only be allowed to dissolve. Make small balls of different coloured and flavoured fondant mixture, or use cubes of pre- served ginger, blanched almonds, etc. Take each ball or cube on a wire fork or very fine skewer and dip it in the melted chocolate. Slip each one carefully on to waxed paper and let them dry till next day. CREAM WALNUTS. Prepare the cream by putting one white of egg into a basin, and adding finely sifted icing sugar till the mixture is thick and smooth, stirring all the time. Add a few drops of any flavouring liked—vanilla, coffee essence, rose, lemon or almond, and colour with a small quantity of paste colour. Knead it and mould it with the fingers into balls or shapes. For cream walnuts coffee is the best flavouring. Roll the cream into balls and place half a dried walnut on either side of a ball, and flatten by pressing the walnuts on well. MARRONS GLACES. Peel the chestnuts whole, and boil them with a small quantity of sugar, till tender. Boil 1 lb. loaf sugar with ^ pint water till it becomes spun sugar. Remove it from the fire, and dip the chestnuts in at cnce, leaving them in a few minutes to become saturated. Take them out carefully with a silver fork and place them on a warm sieve to dry in a warm place. Warm up the syrup the following day, and repeat the dipping and drying processes. The whole chestnuts should be placed on tiny sweet papers. Many chest- nuts break in the cooking. MARZIPAN. \ lb. ground almonds. | \ ll>. finely sifted sugar. A little orange-flower water. Put the ingredients into a copper saucepan over a slow fire, and stir till the ingredients are well blended, and no longer stick to the hand when touched. Turn the mixture on to a sugared board, and mould it to any shape required. Parts can be coloured green and pink if liked. This can be used as a sweetmeat, or employed to fill stoned dates, French plums, or glace cherries. Marzipan potatoes are made by rolling into small oblong shapes, denting them a little, and rolling them in powdered chocolate.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 14 2 ORANGE CREAMS. 1 orange. | 4 oz. sieved icing sugar. Grate the rind of the orange, add the finely sifted sugar, and squeeze in sufficient orange juice to make a stiff paste. Knead well and work it with the hands. Cut it into small pieces, mould it to shape, and place a tiny piece of orange peel on the top of each. Lemon creams may be made the same way. ICED POPCORNS. lb. loaf sugar. Flavouring and colouring. 1 wineglassful water. 1 pint popped com. Boil the sugar and water together in a small enamelled sauce- pan for 15 minutes, and flavour to taste with lemon, vanilla or ratafia. Put half the corn into a bowl, pour the syrup gradually over it, stirring with a silver fork before turning out on to a dish to cool. Warm the syrup again, and colour it pink. Pour this over the rest of the corn, and turn this out to cool. TURKISH DELIGHT. \ oz. isinglass 1 gill water. 1 lb. granulated sugar, Kind and juice of 1 orange. Kind of 4 a lemon and all the juice. Dissolve the sugar in half the water, 'and the isinglass in the other half. Bring both to the boil, then mix together off the fire. Boil all steadily for at least 20 minutes, then remove from the fire and add the finely cut lemon and orange peel. Leave for 15 minutes, and then add the juice of the orange and lemon. Strain it into wetted tins, and when cold, turn it out and cut it into squares. Roll it in cornflour and leave it in a cool, dry place for 2 or 3 days, then roll in icing sugar and leave for a day or two. Omit the cornflour if to be used at once, but unless this is done it soon melts.BREAKFAST DISHES, CHEESE SAVOURIES, ETC. ARTICHOKES WITH CHEESE. Topinambours au Gratin. 2 or 3 large Jerusalem ai tichokes. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. Pepper, salt, lemon juice, and cayenne to taste. 1 oz. breadcrumbs, gutter. Boil the artichokes till tender. Beat them up with a fork and add pepper, salt, lemon juice and a pinch of cayenne. Place a layer of this mixture in little ramakin cases, then a little grated cheese, another layer of artichoke mixture, and sprinkle some breadcrumbs and grated cheese on the top. Put a tiny piece of butter on each, bake for 10 minutes in a sharp oven, and serve very hot. MULLYON BLOATERS. 2 bloaters. 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs. 2 oz. butter. Pepper. Cut the heads and tails off the bloaters, split them down the back and remove all bones. Mix the breadcrumbs with a little pepper, melt the butter, dip the pieces of bloater in it, cover with the breadcrumbs and grill over a clear fire or bake in a hot oven. Serve very hot. 1 gill cream. 1 teaspoonful essence of anchovy. CHEESE CREAMS. Cremes au Fromage. 1 oz. grated cheese. ^ oz. isinglass. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. Salt and cayenne pepper mixed. Whisk the cream till stiff, add the isinglass dissolved, and mix in the other ingredients. Decorate with cut vegetables, hard-boiled egg or truffles some very small dariole moulds, pour the mixture in at once and place on ice to set. Turn each out on to a slice of hard-boiled egg, decorate with strips of red chili and garnish with watercress.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 144 CHEESE H oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Gill of milk. 3 oz. grated cheese. EGGS. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 egg. Breadcrumbs. Frying oil. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, stir till it thickens, and boil 5 minutes; add the seasoning and 2 oz. of the cheese. When well mixed, put on a plate to cool, form in the shape of eggs, cover with egg and breadcrumb, drop into smoking hot oil, fry a golden brown, drain on kitchen paper. Dish in a circle, sprinkle the remaining ounce of cheese over and place the parsley in the centre. CHEESE NUGGETS. Pepper and salt to taste, and a little mustard if liked. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. \ pint milk. Mix the dry ingredients well together, forming them into a stiff dough with the milk. Take up rough pieces with two forks, place on greased tins, and bake 15 minutes. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. 2 oz. butter. 8 oz. flour. 1 per p' x '-too* CHEESE b. breadcrumbs or Florador. PUDDING. ^ pint milk. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 saltspoon mustard. 1 egg. Warm the milk and butter together, pour it over the bread- crumbs and cheese, add the seasoning and well beaten egg, mix well, and pour it into a buttered pie-dish. Bake for ^ an hour. 1 oz. butter. ^ saltspoon salt. 1 oz. butter. 4 oz. flour. \ gill milk. CHEESE RAMAKINS. Rarnequins de Frontage. 1 tablespoonful cream. 2 eggs. 2 oz. grated cheese. Pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk and cream, stir till it thickens, boil for 3 or 4 minutes. Add the cheese, yolks of eggs and seasoning off the fire. Whip the whites of eggs very stiffly and stir lightly in, pour into ramakin cases, sprinkling grated cheese over the top ; bake in a quick oven 10 to 15 minutes. Serve in the cases (see illustration, page 151).1 -4 5 Breakfast dishEs, etc. CHEESE STRAWS. Failles de Fromage. 2 oz. butter. £ saltspoonful salt and cayenne 3 oz. tlour. pepper mixed. 2 oz. grated cheese. Mix all the ingredients to a paste. (It will be found quite moist enough without adding egg or milk.) Roll it out about £ inch thick, cut it into narrow strips, lay them on a baking- sheet and bake about 5 minutes, or till they are a pale golden colour. Tie them up in little bundles with narrow ribbon. CURRIED EGGS. Oeufs a G hard-boiled eggs. 1 dessertspoonful curry powder. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. ^ pint stock or water. 1 oz. dripping or butter. a Karl. 1 small onion. 1 tablespoonful grated cocoa-nut if liked. 1 teaspoonful Hour. Salt. Boiled rice. Fry the minced onion in the dripping or butter, and when hi owned, add the curry powder. Then add the flour smoothly stirred with the stock or water, lemon juice and salt. Boil all up for a few minutes. Cut the eggs into quarters, lengthways, heat them in the sauce, and serve in a border of boiled rice. JAPANESE EGGS. Oeufs a la Japonaise. G hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter. 3 sardines. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Boiled rice (about 2 oz.) 1 pint white sauce. Chopped parsley. Shell the eggs, cut them in halves, take out the yolks, and pass them through a sieve. Mix with them ^ an ounce of butter, the sardines, skinned, boned and sieved, a dust of cayenne and pinch of salt; form into balls and fill in the hollow of each white. Have some hot boiled rice on a dish, place the stuffed eggs on this, stand the whole over boiling water. Put \ oz. of butter into the white sauce, bit by bit, add seasoning, pour over the eggs and rice, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. LDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 14G TOMATOES WITH STIRRED EGGS. 3 round tomatoes. 2 eggs. 1 dessertspoonful milk If oz. butter. 1 teaspoonfu] chopped parsley Pepper and salt to taste. Cut the tomatoes in halves, scoop out a small piece from each centre, season with pepper and salt, place a small lump of butter on each, and bake till soft, but not broken. Beat up the eggs, add seasoning to taste, the milk, and chopped tomato from the centres. Melt 4 oz. butter in a saucepan, pour in the egg mixture and stir over the fire till set. Pile a little egg on each half tomato, sprinkle with parsley, and serve hot. STUFFED EGGS. 4 eggs. 2 lablespoonsful cheese. grated Oeifs Farcis. A little liquid butter. Salt, pepper, cayenne. A little mixed mustard. 4 drops of vinegar. Boil the eggs hard, shell and halve them and remove the yolks. Pound the yolks to a paste with the other ingredients, adding only sufficient liquid butter to moisten the mixture. Cut off a little piece from the end of each halved white so that it will stand, and fill them with the mixture. Place each half on a small round of hot buttered toast, heat in the oven, and serve at once. EGGS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 4 poached eggs. | 4 squares buttered toast. 4 tablespoonsful tomato sauce. Trim the poached eggs carefully, place one on each square of toast. Pour a tablespoonful of tomato sauce (or any other sauce preferred) over each, and serve at once. WHIRLED EGGS. Thin slices buffered toast spread with anchovy or bloater paste. 1 oz. Put the water, slightly salted, in a saucepan over the fire and keep) it at a fast boil. Stir with a wooden spoon or ladle G eggs. 1 quart boiling water. Pepper and salt to taste, rntter.147 BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. in one direction until it whirls rapidly. Break the eggs, one at a time, into a cup, and drop each carefully into the centre of the boiling whirlpool, which must be kept in rapid motion until the egg is a soft round ball. Take it out carefully with a perforated spoon and put it on a slice of buttered toast; put a piece of butter on top of each egg and keep it hot till all are ready to serve. Dust with salt and pepper, and serve hot. EGGS IN WHITE SAUCE. Oeifs a la Lyonnaise. 7 hard-boiled eggs. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. £ pint milk. 1 tablespoonful flour. Salt and pepper. Cut 6 of the hard-boiled eggs in half, lengthways. Fry the sliced onion in the butter, without allowing it to colour. Take out the onion, add most of the milk, and mix the rest with the flour smoothly. Cook the sauce for 10 minutes, season with salt and pepper, put in the halved eggs and heat through. Dish them up carefully and pour the sauce over them. Cut the remaining hard-boiled egg in half, sieve the yolk, and cut the white in rings to garnish the dish. Serve very hot. POTTED SALMON. 1 lb. salmon. | ^ lb. butter. Salt and pepper. Boil the salmon and pound it in a mortar with part of the butter; add a little salt and pepper. Put it into small pots, melt the remainder of the butter, and run it over the top <4 each pot. Serve cold. CROUTES OF Rounds or squares of buttered toast. £ teaspoonful finely chopped parsley. HADDOCK. U oz. butter. a lb. cold dried haddock. Salt, cayenne. 1 hard-boiled egg. Remove bones and skin from the fish and chop it finely; place it in a saucepan with the butter, cayenne and salt, and let it get hot through. Put a portion of the mixture on each piece of toast, sprinkle one with chopped white of egg, another with sieved yolk and a third with chopped parsley. Serve hot. L 2148 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES HADDOCK AND RICE. lilz a la Nightingale. Lightly toss some dry boiled rice in a little butter, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and when quite hot, add the shredded whites of 3 hard-boiled eggs, and the white parts of a dried haddock. Pile up lightly on a hot dish; pass the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs through a sieve and strew over the rice. A little grated cheese can be added if liked. Brown in the oven for 5 minutes. HADDOCK TOAST. Slices of buttered toast. 2 eggs. 2 oz. smoked haddock. 4 oz. of butter. Free the fish from bones, mince it finely, and add it to the butter which has been melted in a saucepan. Add the eggs, un- beaten, and a little pepper. Stir over gentle heat until set, but watch very carefully that it does not burn. Serve hot on small pieces of buttered toast. MACARONI AU GRATIN. ± lh. Naples macaroni. \ lb. grated cheese. ] pint thick Bechamel sauce. 1 oz. butter. Put the macaroni in boiling salted water, and boil for 20 minutes, strain off and put it in cold salt water till wanted, then cut in 1^ inch lengths. Butter a fireproof dish, place some of the Bechamel sauce with grated cheese mixed in on the dish, arrange the macaroni on that and put more sauce on top; sprinkle a few browned crumbs over the top, also a few bits of butter and let it cook in a quick oven about 20 minutes, standing the dish in a tin containing boiling water. MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN. Champignons an Gratia. 4 lh. mushrooms. Breadcrumbs. Chives. Parsley. Chervil. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill white wine. Seasoning. Butter thickly the bottom of a fireproof china dish, and scatter it with breadcrumbs, mixed with a few chopped chives, parsley and chervil. Fill the dish with washed and peeled mush- rooms, placed stalk upwards, scatter more breadcrumbs, herbs, and a good sprinkling of seasoning on them, and a few small149 BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC. pieces of butter on tho top. Pour 1 gill white wine over all, and bake in a brisk oven about 20 minutes. Serve as soon as it leaves the oven. STUFFED MUSHROOMS. Champignons Farcis. i lb. mushrooms. 1 tablespoonful chopped tomato. 1 teaspoonful minced parsley. 2 oz. butter. Wash, dry and trim the cup-shaped mushrooms, chop up the stalks with the parsley and tomato, and warm the mixture for a few moments in a little butter. Fill the mushrooms with this mixture, place them on a buttered baking-dish and bake them about 6 minutes, basting them with clarified butter when taking them from the oven. OMELET. 1 tablespoonful cream milk. or 3 new-laid eggs. 1 oz. butter. Salt and pepper to taste. % teaspoonful casumen. Melt the butter in a round frying-pan, removing any frotb that rises. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the milk, casumen, salt and pepper. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix them lightly with the yolks, pour the mixture into a frying-pan, let it cook for 2 or 3 minutes, double it (see illustration), shake it off on to a hot dish, and serve at once. While it is cooking pass a knife round the edges and shake the pan a little to prevent it sticking. CHEESE OMELET. Same as above, but add a little grated cheese to the yolks, and when the omelet is cooked, sprinkle grated cheese inside, over, and round it. MUSHROOM OMELET. Chop some mushrooms small, stew them in milk thickened with flour and butter and slip the mixture into the omelet be- fore doubling it over. TOMATO OMELET. Heat some tomato puree or sauce and slip it into the omelet before doubling it over.150 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. POLISH RICE. Jiiz a la Polonaise. 1 oz. fresh butter. 1 onion. ^ lb. rice boiled as for curry, 3 baked potatoes. 2 oz. cheese. Cayenne and salt to taste. Filleted anchovies or smoked sardines. ^ lb. rice. 1 oz. butter. Melt the butter, add the onion finely minced, a tiny pinch of cayenne and salt, and fry for 2 or 3 minutes; add the boiled rice and the pulp of the baked potatoes. Mix all well together and fry for 10 minutes, turning lightly with a fork. Add the cheese, allow it to melt and become stringy; pile up the rice in a hot dish and garnish with filleted anchovies or smoked sardines, previously made hot in butter, and drained dry. Serve at once. TOMATO RISOTTO. Risotto aux Tomates. 2 dessertspoonsful grated cheese Tomato sauce. Salt and cayenne. Boil the rice in boiling water about 20 minutes, then put it on a strainer and under the cold water tap for £ a minute to separate the grains. Return it to the saucepan, dry it, add the butter, salt, cayenne, tomato sauce, and part of the grated cheese. Serve very hot, with the rest of the grated cheese sprinkled over it. SPAGHETTI. | lb. spaghetti (finest maca- 1 large tablespoonful tomato roni). puree. 1 large tablespoon ful grated cheese. Wash the spaghetti well, and boil it till tender, being careful not to overboil it. Strain off the water, place it in a dish, mix with it the tomato and cheese. Toss it all lightly together with two forks until the cheese forms threads. Dish it up immediately. BREAKFAST TOMATOES. 1 Hi. large tomatoes, d lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. Squares of buttered toast. Poached eggs according to number of tomatoes. Scoop out part of the middle of the tomatoes, fill up the hollows with minced mushrooms, place them in a stew-pan with the butter, and simmer for about \ an hour, or till perfectly tender. Place each one carefully on a small square of buttered toast and lay a poached egg on top of the Lmato.BREAKFAST DISHES, ETC 151 12. —FOLDING OMELET. {P/ge 1-19.) 13. —OMELET. (Page 149.) 14— CHEESE RAMAKINS. {Page 14L)CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. • <>« ALMOND CAKE. \ lb. sweet, and 1 oz. bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste. 5 oz. flour. fl eggs. ^ lb. sifted sugar. 3 oz. butter. 1 lemon. Beat the egg yolks, add the almonds, stir in the sugar, then the flour and the grated rind of the lemon. Add the butter creamed, and when all is well mixed, add the stiffly beaten egg whites. Butter a cake mould, pour in the mixture, and bake from 1| to If hours. ALMOND RINGS. £ lb. flour. ^ lb. fresh butter. ^ lb. castor sugar. | lb. ground almonds. 2 eggs. 1 oz. casumen. Place the casumen, 5 oz. of the flour and all the butter before the fire for a few minutes, then mix it with the sugar, almonds and eggs. Turn the mixture on to a floured board and roll out thin, using the remaining 3 oz. of flour in so doing. Take 2 round biscuit cutters, one two sizes smaller than the other and stamp the paste out in rings, place them on a greased tin, sprinkle them with ground almonds and white sugar, and bake 15 minutes in a brisk oven. ALMOND ROCK CAKES. 4 oz. almonds, blanched and cut into spikes. 3 oz. mixed peel. 1 oz. flour, lb. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 whites of eggs. Beat the whites, and mix all the ingredients together to a light paste. Place the mixture in small heaps on wafer paper. Bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes.CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. 153 BALLETTES. \ lb. fresh butter. 1 oz. creme deriz (Groult’s). 2 oz. line flour. 3 whole eggs. £ oz. baking-powder. Grated lemon rind. 3 oz. vanilla sugar. H oz. ratafia crumbs. Pink icing. Carmine. Stir the butter, sugar, a little colouring and the lemon rind grated, together for 20 minutes. Then mix in the creme de riz, fine flour, and ratafia crumbs (or ground almonds) alternately with the eggs, and stir for 15 minutes. Add the baking-powder, and pour the mixture into little cups which have been covered with cold butter and cake crumbs, and bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. When cold, dip them into pink icing, and sprinkle chopped pistaches on the top. BERLINKOES. H lbs. of flour. 10 oz. fresh butter. 1 lb. castor sugar. 5 eggs. Pind of 1 lemon. Beat the butter to a cream, add to it gradually the sugar, eggs and grated lemon rind, and lastly the flour to form a stiff dough. Butter a baking-tin well and sprinkle it with flour; form little wreaths with the dough, place them well apart from each other on the prepared tin and bake for about ^ hour in a good oven till dark yellow. Before baking, brush the cakes over with white of egg and sprinkle with coarsely chopped al- monds, sugar and cinnamon. BISCUIT SANDWICHES. i lb. Eureka aerated Hour. £ teaspoonful each of cinnamon and mixed spice. 2 oz. brown sugar, -j lb. butter. 1 egg. Sweet fruit jelly. Icing. Mix the flour, sugar and spices together. Cream the butter and beat the egg, and add these to the dry ingredients, mixing till quite smooth. Roll out quickly, and cut into small rounds, and bake about 15 minutes. Spread a very small quantity of apple, blackberry or other sweet jelly on a biscuit and press another one on it. When quite cold, ice with a thin white suaar icinn.154 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. BRETZEL (GERMAN BISCUITS). G oz. butter. 5 oz. castor su 1 lb. flour. gar. 4 yolks and 2 whites of egga. Grated lemon rind or orange- flower water. Cream the butter and sugar together, stir in the eggs and then the flour and flavouring. Roll pieces into thin strips with the hand, shape into double rings and place on a baking-sheet. Brush them over with yolk of egg and sprinkle with coarse sugar. BUTTER CAKES. 4 lb. flour, 4 lb. butter. 4 lb. brown sugar. 2 egg yolks. Ground cinnamon. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and cinnamon, of which a teaspoonful will probably be required ; form it into a paste with 1 egg yolk. Flour the pastry-board and rolling- pin, roll the paste out rather thinly, cut into rounds with a fluted cutter, and place on a greased tin to bake. Brush the biscuits over with beaten egg yolk, place a half almond or slice of candied peel in the centre and bake till crisp (about 10 minutes), COCOA-NUT CONES. 6 oz. grated cocoa-nut. 4 oz. castor sugar. 14 oz. Remy Wafer paper. 2 egg whites, ina cornflour. Mix the cocoa-nut, sugar and cornflour, and bind them with the stiffly beaten whites. Form into neat little cones at equal distances on the wafer paper, or if this is not obtainable, on a greased baking-tin. Bake them in a very slow oven till they are firm. CHOCOLATE CAKES. 2 large eggs. 1 tablespoonful chocolate. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 4 teaspoonfid The weight of the eggs in butter, castor sugar, and flour. Daking-powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, beat the eggs and sift the flour. Add the egg and flour alternately to the butter and sugar, beat all for 10 minutes, then add the powdered chocolate, vanilla, and baking-powder. Butter some little dariole moulds thickly, and sprinkle them with mixed castor sugar and flour; then pour in the cake mixture and bake 10 minutes in a slow oven. Let them stand a few minutes before turning out. When cold, cover each with chocolate icing, page 158, and sprinkle with chopped almonds or pistachcs.155 CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. CHOCOLATE CORNFLOUR CAKE. 4 lb. butter. j lb. Remylina cornflour. 4 eggs. ^ lb. castor sugar. ^ lb. fine flour. 2 oz. chocolate powder. Beat up the butter, sugar and eggs together for 10 minutes. Mix the cornflour, flour and chocolate powder together, and add them to the mixture. Mix lightly and bake in a well buttered tin for 1 hour. Ice the cake when cold with chocolate glaze. CHOCOLATE FINGERS. i lb. flour. | lb. castor sugar. 3 oz. powdered chocolate. 1 teaspoonful 1 egg. Half a teacupful of milk. Vanilla essence, making-pov\ der. Beat the egg and milk together, and add a few drops of vanilla essence. Sift in the dry ingredients, and add the baking-powder just before baking. Pour the mixture into a well buttered shallow tin, and bake in a brisk oven about ^ an hour. When cold, ice it with chocolate glaze and sprinkle it with chopped pistachio nuts. Cut it into fingers when it is set. CHOLLAS. Proceed as for Vienna bread (see page 163|); turn the dough, after it has risen 3 to 4 four hours, on to a floured board; cut off 2 good sized pieces to form the under part of the twists, then cut off 6 small pieces, roll each with the palm of your hand into a long thin roll and make them into 2 plaits of 3 each to form the tops of the twists; brush the top of each loaf with beaten yolk of egg, place the plait on top, brush that with egg and sprinkle with poppy-seeds. Bake on a floured tin in a quick oven about ^ an hour. If it sounds hollow when tapped under- neath, the bread is done. LITTLE COFFEE CAKES. } lb. flour. 4 eggs. 6 oz castor sugar. 10 oz. icing sugar. 2 dessertspoonsful coffee essence. Put the eggs, sugar and 1 dessertspoonful coffee essence into a saucepan, beat well, and whisk over boiling water till the mixture is warm. Then beat off the fire till cold and stiff. Add the flour gradually, and when well mixed, pour into a well15G DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. greased flat tin. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes, and when cold, cut into fingers and ice with coffee glaze and decorate with white icing. Coffee glaze : Melt 6 oz. icing sugar, 1 tablespoonful water, and 1 dessertspoonful coffee essence over the fire till warm and liquid. Pour it over the fingers, and when cold, decorate the outside with white icing through an icing tube. White icing: £ lb. icing sugar stirred into a small egg white. It must be stirred 20 to 30 minutes till quite stiff and smooth, or it will not go through the tube easily. CURRANT LOAF. 2 lbs. of dough. | 3 oz. well washed currants. 2 oz. brown sugar. Set the dough to rise till ready to use it. Work the sugar and currants into It and set it to rise again. Pat it into a bread- tin and bake like ordinary bread. If it sounds hollow when tapped, it is done. 4 oz. butter. 3 oz. flour. 2 oz. castor su gar. DAINTY CAKE. 2 eggs. G drops orange-flower water. 4 lemon. Beat the butter and sugar together, add the yolks of eggs, then the flour and orange-flower water, and the grated lemon rind. When thoroughly mixed, add the stiffly beateu whites of eggs. Half fill small buttered tins, sprinkle the top with blanched and chopped almonds, and bake a delicate brown. DUNDEE CAKE. £ lb. Vienna flour. \ lb. butter. \ lb. castor sugar. 3 oz. sultanas. 2 oz. currants. The rind of 1 lemon. 2 oz. chopped peel. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 3 eggs. 2 tablespoonsful milk. 2 oz. almonds. Bub the butter into the flour, add the sultanas, currants, chopped lemon rind and candied peel, and then the sugar and baking-powder. Break the eggs into a basin, whip them tho- roughly, add the milk, and mix all into the dry ingredients. Pour into a well buttered and papered tin, and cover the top with split and blanched almonds. Bake about lj hours.157 CAKES, bread and biscuits. FAIRY CAKES. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. Their weight in castor sugar. Ratafia or almond flavouring. The weight of 1 egg in butter, ltemylina cornflour, and fine flour. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the well beaten eggs ; mix the flour and cornflour and baking-powder together, and sift it in to the mixture gradually. Flavour it with almond or ratafia essence, and bake in little buttered tins. Scatter a few chopped almonds on the top of each cake before baking. LITTLE FRUIT CAKES. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 5 oz. flour. i teaspoonful Beat the butter and sugar 3 oz. glace cherries. 1 oz. angelica. 1 oz. cition peel. Few drops essence of lemon, baking-powder. to a cream, add the flour and eggs alternately, then the fruit, cut small, and lastly, the baking- powder. Mix well and quickly, half till well buttered fancy moulds or patty-pans with the mixture and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. GINGER ^ lb. flour. | lb. castor sugar, j lb. butter. BISCUITS. ^ oz. ground ginger. 1 po'er x A little milk if necessary. Partly melt the butter, mix in the flour, sugar and ginger, beat up the egg, pour part of it into the mixture, use enough egg and milk to make a very stiff paste, turn it on to a board, roll it out* to a \ inch in thickness, cut in rounds, place them on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven 10 to 15 minutes. i lb. flour. GINGERBREAD CAKE. 1 oz. blanched and chopped almonds, i teaspoonful ground ginger. I teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 1 pinch of salt. ^ gill warm milk. Beat all the ingredients well together for \ of an hour, turn the mixture into a well greased cake-tin, place a few shredded almonds on top and bake in a slow oven for 2 hours. 2 oz. brown sugar. | lb. golden syrup. 1 small egg. 2 oz. butter.158 dainty dinners And dishes. ALMOND ICING. 4 lb. ground almonds. 2 egg whites. 4 lb. icing sugar. Flavourings. Mix the almonds and sugar together, then add sufficient un- beaten egg whites to make a stiff paste, flavour, and turn it out on to a sugared board. Work it w7ith the hands to a smooth paste. Form it into a round the shape of the cake, put it on the top, and smooth it with a knife. If this icing is firm, it may be covered at once with Royal (sugar) icing; if it is soft, leave it to dry in the kitchen for a day before icing again. BUTTER ICING or VIENNESE ICING. 2 oz. fresh butter. 1 dessertspoonful brand}', coffee 4 oz. icing sugar. essence or other flavouring. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the sieved sugar, add the flavouring, and stir well till it is very smooth. Pipe it on to the cake in roses, etc., or use it as a layer between little cakes. CHOCOLATE ICING. 4 lb. icing sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 2 oz. grated chocolate. 2 tablespoonsful cold water. Place the sieved sugar in a basin and stand the basin over a pan of boiling water. Stir in the chocolate, water and vanilla, and stir well till all is melted and smooth. Pour it over the cakes, or dip little cakes into the icing. Coffee icing is made in the same way, using coffee essence instead of the water and chocolate, and omitting the vanilla. White vanilla icing is also similarly prepared, using a little more vanilla essence. ORANGE ICING. i lb. icing sugar. | The juice of one orange. Place the sieved sugar and the strained orange juice in a basin, and set the basin over a pan of boiling water. Stir the sugar and juice together till it is well melted, and pour at once over the cake. This is a semi-transparent icing. ROYAL ICING. i ]b icing sugar. A few drops of flavouring 1 or 2 egg whites. essence. Colouring if desired. Sieve the sugar, add the flavouring and stir in 1 unbeaten egg white, and stir well. If too thick, add a little more egg wdnte, and stir till the mixture is very smooth. Beat it for at least 15 minutes, then cover the cake, smoothing it with a150 CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. knife dipped in cold watei’. Colour the rest of the icing, pink, yellow or green, and decorate by pressing the sugar through an icing bag and fancy icing tubes. INVALID'S CAKE. 2 eggs. | 3 oz. flour (or farinaceous food, 2 oz. tutter. such as Mellin’s or Brnger’s.; 2 oz. ca-tor sugar. A little flavouring. 4 teaspoonful baking-powder. ^ oz. casumen. Stir the butter and sugar together for 5 minutes, add 1 egg and half the flour, then the other egg and the rest of the flour and flavouring. When well mixed, add the baking-powder and casumen, and bake in a buttered tin about 20 minutes, or 10 minutes in small tins. Turn out on to a sieve to cool. LAWN TENNIS CAKE. 3 oz. glace chen ics. 3 oz. almonds shredded. 6 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful 6 oz. castor sugar. 74 oz. flour. 3 eggs, jaking-powder. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and then the eggs, beating in one at a time. Mix the flour and baking-powder in gently, then add the cherries, cut up, and the almonds shredded. Turn at once into a well greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for 30 to 35 minutes. Icinq: Cover with almond icing, page 158, and then with 4 lb. icing sugar and 2 tablespoonsful maraschino or water, just melted, and poured over the cake. Decorate with cherries, etc., while the icing is still soft. MACAROONS. | lb. grounl almond*. 4 egg whites. 4 lb. castor sugar. Almond essence. Waff r paper. Whip the whites stiffly, add the essence, sugar and almonds, and stir it lightly. Drop the mixture on to wafer paper, and place strips of almond on each. Bake in a slow oven till firm, and of a light brown colour. GERMAN MACAROONS, ^ lb. ground almonds. 3 small whites of eggs. 4 lb. very line castor sugar. 2 sheets wafer paper. Juice of £ a lemon or 1 dessertspoonful orange-flower water. Beat the whites stiffly, add the sugar gradually, and stir till the mixture is quite smooth, then add lemon juice, and lastly1G0 dainty Dinners and dishes. the ground almonds. Mix thoroughly for about 10 minutes, then place little heaps of the mixture on wafer paper, bake on a flat tin in a very slow oven till a light golden colour. The macaroons should not go flat, and when cold, are not very crisp. lb. x ‘2 5 oz. Hour. butter. 4 eggs. MADEIRA CAKE. I 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 5 oz. castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful brandy. Cream the butter and sugar, add alternately the flour and yolks of eggs, previously well beaten, beat all for 10 minutes, then add the baking-powder and very stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Line a mould with buttered paper, fill it with the mixture, place a piece of citron peel on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. . lb. butter. b. castor sugar MADELENES. ^ lb. flour. Weight of lb. in Pfrt'S Cream the butter, add the Stigar and the egg yolks. Mix the flour in very gradually, then add the stiffly beaten egg whites. Half fill small Madelene moulds (greased), and bake in a quick oven. : MARBLED CAKE. | tcaspoonful carbonate of soda. 9 oz. flour. \ lb. butter 2 eggs.. 1 oz. mixed peel 2 oz castor sugar. brown sugar, 4 oz. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 tablespoonful treacle or golden syrup. ,t pint of milk. Mix together half the flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, half the car- bonate of soda and cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Whisk the whites of the eggs, add half the milk, and stir into the dry ingredients; lastly, add half the butter melted, and work all well till thoroughly mixed. This is for the light stratum. For the dark mixture: —Mix the rest of the flour with the brown sugar, the rest of the carbonate of soda and cream of tartar, and the peel cut up finely. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to the remaining half of the milk, with the treacle and the rest of the butter melted. Mix thoroughly, beat vig- orously and let it stand for ^ an hour. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, fill it with alternate light and dark layers, and bake about U hours in a moderate oven. If golden syrup is used instead of treacle, the colour of the, dark layer must be deepened by ground spice.CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. 161 MILK BREAD. H lbs. flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 pint milk. 2 teaspoonsful cream of tartar. 1 large teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Salt. 2 oz. casumen. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and mix with the rest of the ingredients very quickly. Put the dough into a greased tin and bake in a sharp oven about ^ an hour. PENTECOST BISCUITS. £ lb. flour. lb. butter, j lb. castor sugar. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful of noyau. Reserve part of the white of the egg and 1 oz. of the sugar for decoration, for which some small pieces of citron peel will also be required. Place the butter in a basin and stand it on the top of the oven for 2 or 3 minutes so that it may be warmed through, but not reduced to the consistency of oil. Mix in the flour and sugar, the egg (well beaten), and the noyau. Make it into a stiff paste; turn it on to a floured board, roll it out thin, and cut it into shapes with small round cutters or with the top of a wine-glass. Place them on a floured baking-tin, brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle them with the castor sugar, and put a piece of citron peel on the middle of each biscuit. Bake them in a moderate oven for 15 minutes, and when done, place them on a sieve till cool. RICH PLUM CAKE. £ lb. flour. | lb. butter. 5- lb. currants. 5- lb. moist sugar. 5 lb. peel. 2 oz. whole almonds. £ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. I teaspoonful sal-volatile. 1 pinch salt. 1 gill warm milk. 2 eggs. Mix the soda and flour, rub in the butter, add the other dry ingredients, and then the well beaten eggs, beaten with the warm milk. Beat this mixture 10 minutes, then add the sal- volatile and beat 2 minutes longer. Put quickly into a buttered tin and bake in a quick oven for 2^ hours, not opening the oven-door for f hour. MDAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 162 RICH PLUM CAKE FOR HANUCAH. 6 oz. butter. £ lb. currants. £ lb. candied peel. ^ lb. flour. 1 tablespoonful treacle or golden syrup. A little mixed spice. 6 oz. brown sugar. ^ lb. sultanas. 2 oz. almonds. | pint hot milk. 3 eggs. ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Blanch and chop the almonds, cut the peel thinly, pick the sultanas, and clean the currants. Warm the butter slightly and cream it with the sugar; add the eggs, one at a time, and beat in the treacle. Mix in the fruit, then the flour in which the spice has been mixed, and lastly, the soda dissolved in the warm milk. Mix all thoroughly and pour it into a cake-tin which has been lined with 3 thicknesses of kitchen paper. Let the paper come 2 inches above the top of the tin. It need not be greased. Bake about 3^ hours in a slow oven. It is improved by icing, when quite cold, as follows : Almond Icing. ^ lb. ground almonds. | £ lb. icing sugar. IV ix well together with sufficient orange-flower water to bind it. Spread this smoothly on the top and cover with Royal Icing. 1 lb. icing sugar. | 2 egg whites. Stir these together till quite smooth and thick. Spread the top and sides with this icing, and colour the remainder pink. Decorate with a forcing pipe. GERMAN POUND CAKE. 8 oz. butter. 10 oz. flour. 8 oz. castor sugar. 4 eggs. 1 lemon. 4 oz. sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. Cream the butter with the hand in a basin; add the flour, previously passed through a sieve, the castor sugar and eggs, mixing all thoroughly with the butter. Grate the rind of the lemon°into the basin, add the sultanas and the peel shredded, stirring all with a wooden spoon. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper,°pour in the mixture, and bake for 2 hours.1G3 CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. QUEEN CAKES. 3 oz. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. currants or sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. 2 or 3 eggs. ^ gill warm milk. | teaspoonful baking-powder. 6 oz. flour. Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs and milk gradually, mixing well, beat the dry ingredients in lightly, lastly add the baking-powder. Butter the fancy Queen cake-tins, dust them with castor sugar, half fill them with the cake mixture. Bake in a moderate oven 15 to 20 minutes. ROUT CAKES. £ lb. ground almonds. | lb. castor sugar. Yolks of Decorations of glace fruit, etc, to taste. 2 eggs. Mix the almonds and sugar together with enough egg yolk to form a pliable mixture. Dredge board and rolling-pin with fine icing sugar, roll paste out | of an inch thick, see that the edges are even, and make the paste in a cool place. Let it lie a short time, then divide it into diamonds, fingers, rounds, rings, straws, etc. Cover a baking-sheet with grease-proof paper, lay the cakes on with a palette-knife, cover with paper, and bake in a very cool oven till firm ; remove upper paper before cakes are quite done. Test this by breaking one through, if done it should bo dry and crumbly. Decorate to taste. SALT STRAWS. £ lb. Vienna flour. £ oz. butter. I good saltspoonful salt. H oz. German yeast, lj gills tepid milk and water. Mix the flour and salt together, rub the butter smoothly into it. Cream the yeast, mix it in the milk and wmter, pour it into the flour, make a light dough, sprinkle the top with flour, cover with a clean cloth and set the dough to rise in a warm place for hours. Turn the dough on to a floured board, roll it out very thinly, cut it into narrow strips 3 to 5 inches Ions:, using as little flour as possible. Roll each strip lightly with the palm of your floured hand, brush over quickly with milk and sprinkle wuth rough, dry salt; set them on a lightly-floured tin and bake in a slack oven till perfectly dry, crisp, and of a pale golden colour.1C,4 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES RICH SEED CAKE. 4 lb. Hungarian flour. 4 oz. butter. 1 oz. caraway seeds. A little grated lemon rind. 4 lb. castor sugar. 3 eggs. 2 oz. candied peel chopped. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the well beaten eggs, and the Hour sifted. Beat thoroughly, add the rest of the ingredients, stir all together, pour the mixture into a tin lined with buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven about 1^ hours. SHORT-BREAD. 4 lb. butter. 2 oz. castor sugir. 4 lb. flour. Citron peel. Beat the butter to a cream with your hand, add gradually the flour and sugar, and knead all together till it is quite a stiff paste; the more you knead it the better it will be. Flour a board, break off small lumps of the paste and pat each out with the palm of your hand to the thickness of 4 an inch. Cut them to the desired shape, decorate with citron peel, place on a tin and bake to a pale straw colour in a moderate oven, watching them carefully while there, as they burn very quickly. SNOW CAKE. 4 lb. arrowroot. 4 butter. 4 lb. castor sugar. Whites of 3 eggs. Essence of almonds, or vanilla. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the sugar and arrowroot gradually, beating the mixture all the time. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, add to the rest and beat well for 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven for about 1 hour. SHREWSBURY BISCUITS. f, oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 A few drops of flavouring essence. Currants if liked. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the flavouring and the egg and beat thoroughly. Stir the flour in gradually (add the currants if used) and make it all into a smooth paste. Roll out about 4 of an inch thick, cut into fancy shapes and bake about 10 minutes on a greased tin.CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. 165 SPONGE-CAKE. 3 eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. flour. Grated rind of i a lemon. ^ oz. casumen. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, stand it over a pan of boiling water, and whip for about 20 minutes, or until warm and frothy. Stir in the casumen and flour, sifted, very lightly and add the lemon rind. Butter a cake-tin or mould well, dust it with mixed castor sugar and flour and pour in the mixture. Bake about f of an hour in a slow oven. SNOWDROP CAKES. 1 cup of butter. 2 cups of sugar. 3 cups Eureka aerated flour. 1 small cup of milk. Whites of 5 eggs. Vanilla and nutmeg to flavour. Cream the butter and sugar, add the flour, milk, flavouring and stiffly beaten whites of eggs ; grease some small round moulds or patty-pans and bake in a hot oven from 10 to 15 minutes. SULTANA SCONES. h lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. -j- pint of milk. A few sultanas. ^ oz. cream of tartar. £ oz. carbonate of soda. Bub the butter into the flour, cream of tartar and sugar. Dis- solve the soda in the milk and stir it into the flour, etc., with a knife. Roll it out, and divide it into two rounds, each round being quartered. Bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. LITTLE HOT TEA-CAKES. 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful baking-powder. 1 gill of milk. Pinch of salt. Mix the baking-powder, sugar and salt into the flour, then rub iu the butter and mix to a paste with milk. Roll out rather thin, cut into rounds with a wine-glass and bake on a floured tin in a hot oven about 20 minutes; cut in halves, spread with butter, and serve hot.166 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. VANILLA FINGER BISCUITS. 1 small egg. 1 oz. Remylina cornflour. 8 oz. castor sugar. A few shredded almonds. 4 oz. ground a'monds. Vanilla. Cream the egg and sugar together till light and smooth, add the ground almonds and vanilla. Work well, put in the corn- flour and knead till it looks a smooth dough. Roll out on a floured board ^ inch thick. Cut into finger strips and bake on wafer paper. When almost done, brush over with beaten egg, and sprinkle with shredded almonds. VIENNA BREAD. 2 lbs. Vienna flour. 1 pint milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. German yeast. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. 2 eggs. 2 oz. casumen. Mix the flour, casumen and salt together in a large basin and make a hole in the centre. Warm the milk and butter to blood- heat, beat up the eggs and pour the milk on to them. Cream the yeast and sugar together, add them to the egg and milk mixture and pour the liquid into the hole made in the flour. Mix all to a light dough, sprinkle a little flour over the top, cover with a clean cloth and set to rise for 3 or 4 hours in a warm place. Turn on to a floured board, cut pieces of the dough off and form into cottage loaves, crescents, knots, horseshoes, etc., with as little flour as possible. Place on a floured tin, brush over with beaten egg and bake in a hot oven about 10 to lo minutes. VARIEGATED CAKES. 1 teacupful castor sugar. 24 teacupsful flour. 4 teacupful milk. 2 oz. butter. Whites of 4 eggs. A few drops of essence of ratafia. Green and pink colouring. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the flour gradually, the milk, stiffly beaten whites and the flavouring. Divide the mixture into three basins, colour one pale green, the other pink, and leave the third white. Grease some small moulds or patty- pans, put a little of each mixture in each mould (the white in the middle), giving a slight stir with a skewer to each colour as you add the next. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven.li!7 CAKES, BREAD AND BISCUITS. WALNUT CAKE. 6 oz. breadcrumbs soaked I 6 oz. shelled walnuts, in ruin. 10 oz. castor sugar. 6 eggs. | 10 oz. icing sugar. 6 drops hot water. Beat the yolks and castor sugar together, add the pounded walnuts, breadcrumbs soaked in rum and stiffly beaten whites. Turn into a well greased cake tin and bake § of an hour in a moderate oven. When cold, ice as follows:—Have hot water in a large bowl, place a small basin containing the icing sugar in this, add G drops of hot water, stir quickly, and spread over the cake at once, decorating with pieces of walnut.JAMS. *o« APRICOT JAM. | lb. sugar to 1 lb. fruit, and allow J pint water to every 5 lbs. fruit. Boil the sugar and water together till clear, and then add the apricots, quartered and stoned. Boil it all for 4 an hour quickly, stirring all the time. Crack and blanch some of the kernels, and add them to the jam just before taking it off the fire. If it has thickened sufficiently, pour it while still hot into jars. APRICOT MARMALADE. 3 lbs. sugar to 4 lbs of apricots. Peel, quarter, and stone the fruit, put it in the preserving-pan, and simmer till the fruit is pulpy, stirring it constantly. Add the sugar, some of the kernels blanched, and boil it all together for 20 or 30 minutes. Stir it often, taking great care to prevent it burning. Pour it into jars, and cover when cold. BLACKBERRY JAM. Allow | lb. sugar to 1 lb. fruit when picked, and allow J pint of water to every 6 lbs. of sugar. Cook the sugar and water together from 10 to 15 minutes to clear it, then add the fruit, and boil it from f to 1 hour, stirring it all the time. If good cane sugar is used, jams need hardly any skimming. Pour into jars while hot, and cover them the following day. BLACKBERRY JELLY. Allow about J pint water to 5 or G lbs. fruit, according to the dryness of the fruit. Boil the fruit and water together from 30 to 45 minutes till all the juice runs out. Strain the juice through a cloth, being careful not to press the fruit. Allow f lb. of sugar to each pint of juice, and boil this together quickly for about 20 minutes, stirring all the time. Drop a little on to a cold plate, and if it does not spread, the jelly is ready to be poured into little pots.JAMS If,9 CHERRY JAM. This jam is greatly improved by stoning the fruit lirst. Allow 1J lbs. of sugar to every 2 lbs. of stoned fruit, and 1 pint of water to 7 lbs. of fruit. Boil the sugar, water, and cherries together for £ of an hour, stirring and skimming all the time. Put it into jars or pots, and tie down when cold. DAMSON JAM. Allow f lb. of sugar to every 1 lb. of fruit, and 1 pint of water to 7 lbs. of fruit. Boil the sugar, water, and fruit together for f of an hour, stirring and skimming all the time. Put it into jars or pots, and tie down when cold. DAMSON JELLY. Wash the damsons, and stew them in a little water till tender. Rub them through a sieve, and remove skins and stones. Weigh the pulp, and allow an equal weight of loaf sugar. Boil it up till it jellies, but do not allow it to get too stiff, or the jelly will be tough. Put it into small jars, and cover when cold. GOOSEBERRY JAM. Allow | lb. sugar to 1 lb. fruit, and \ pint of water to 5 lbs. sugar. Boil the sugar and water together till clear, then add the picked fruit, and boil all together quickly, for about § of an hour. Stir it constantly. Slow boiling makes the fruit lose its colour. GREENGAGE JAM. Stone the greengages, and add some of the kernels to the fruit. Allow 6 lbs. loaf sugar and 1 quart of water to every 6 lbs. of fruit, weighed after stoning. Boil the sugar and water to- gether for 5 minutes, until the syrup has cleared itself. Add the fruit, and boil for f of an hour.DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 170 MADEIRA MARMALADE. 2 dozen Seville oranges. Loaf sugar. 0 sweet oranges. (Jold water. 1 wineglasoiul whisky. Cut the oranges into quarters, and remove the pips. Slice them very thinly, and add 3 pints of water to every pound of sliced fruit, and let it stand 24 hours. Then boil until the chips are quite tender. Let it stand another 24 hours, after which weigh the boiled fruit, and to every pound allow 1 lb. loaf sugar. Boil again from £ to 1 hour, when it should be clear and well jellied. Add a wineglassful of whisky when done. A few lemons can be sliced with the oranges, if liked. PLUM JAM. Stone the plums, and add some of the kernels to the fruit. Allow 6 lbs. loaf sugar and 1 quart of water to every 6 lbs. of fruit, weighed after stoning. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes, or until the syrup has cleared itself. Add the fruit, and boil for § of an hour. Jam made by this recipe will be quite firm and clear like jelly, and can be turned out whole from the pot, like a mould. QUINCE AND APPLE COMPOTE. Take the cores, seeds, and skins, of the quinces, left from the fruit used for jelly; for every pound of quince trimmings allow 1 lb. peeled and cored apples with f lb. sugar io each pound of fruit, and just enough water to keep the mixture from burning. Boil this all slowly together for about 2 hours, stirring frequently, pass it through a sieve and pot it. QUINCE JELLY. Peel, halve, and core the fruit, weigh it, and to each pound allow 1 pint cold spring water, dropping the fruit into this as quickly as possible, and let it all simmer together gently till the fruit is broken, but not mashed, or the colour will be spoilt. Let it now run through a jelly-bag, or clean cloth at its leisure, with no pressure of any kind, and when all the juice is extracted, measure it, and boil it in a delicately clean preserving-pan for lo minutes; then for each pint of juice add £ lb. or 1 lb. sugar, and boil all well together till it turns pink and will jelly, skimming most carefully all the time.171 JAMS. QUINCE MARMALADE. Take the quinces that remain after the juice has been strained off for jelly, pound them in a mortar, weigh the pulp, and to each pound allow f lb. cane loaf sugar; boil this all sharply, stir constantly, and let it boil gently for about an hour after the pulp boils up. Pot and tie down as usual. RED CURRANT JELLY. TTse fine, ripe fruit. Pick the currants off the stalks, and put them in a covered jar. Set this jar in a pot of water over the fire, boil the water up, and let it simmer evenly, till the juices are well drawn out. Pour the juice through a cloth or jelly-bag, without pressing the fruit, to ensure a clear jelly. Measure the juice, and boil it for 20 minutes. Then add 1 lb. good lump sugar to every pint of juice, and boil again for 15 to 20 minutes. Test if it has jellied by pouring a little on a cold plate. This jelly must be well skimmed during cooking to keep the colour good. Pour into warmed glasses or small pots. STRAWBERRY JAM. Allow £ lb. loaf sugar to each lb. of picked fruit, and 1 pint of water to each 7 lbs. of fruit. Boil the sugar and water together till the sugar is melted, then add the fruit, and boil it quickly for ^ an hour, stirring and skimming it all the time. Pour the jam into jars, and tie down when quite cold. RED AND BLACK CURRANT JAMS. are made the same way as strawberry jam. RASPBERRY JAM. is also made like strawberry jam.BEVERAGES. CHOCOLATE. Chocolat. 2 heaped tablespoonsful grated chocolate. Sugar 1 tablespoonful boiling water. 1 quart milk, to taste. Make the chocolate into a paste with the boiling water ; boil the milk and stir in the chocolate paste. Let it boil gently for 10 minutes, froth it with a chocolate-mill, and serve hot with lightly whipped cream on top. COFFEE WITH MILK. Cafe au Lait. 1 heaped dessertspoonful finely ground coffee for each breakfast-cup and 1 extra for the pot. 1 gill boiling water to each cup. 1 gill boiling milk to each cup. Sugar to taste. Heat the percolator with boiling water, put a pinch of salt with the freshly ground coffee, put the coffee in the hot perco- lator above the strainer, pour the boiling water slowly on to it, let it all run through; serve very hot with boiling milk. TURKISH COFFEE. Cafe Turque. 8 heaped teaspoonsful very j pint water, finely ground coffee. A pinch of salt. The coffee must either be freshly ground in the special Turkish coffee-mill, or pounded in a mortar, and sifted through a piece of muslin. Let the water come to the boil, stir in the salt and coffee, stir all well together, let it boil, remove from the spirit- lamp, put it on the lamp again, repeat this twice, then pour at once into 4 small coffee-cups; pour into each a few drops cold water, let the coffee stand till clear, then drink it. If sugar is required, boil it first in the water before making the cofice, as Turkish coffee must not be stirred up before drinking.173 BEVERAGES CHAMPAGNE CUP. 1 quart bottle champagne. 1 wineglass brandy. 2 bottles of soda water. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 sprig borage. Put the champagne into a bowl, add the brandy, and stir in the sugar. Break into small pieces 1 lb. of clear ice, and add it to the cup, adding the soda water just before serving it. CIDER 1 quart of good cider. 2 bottles of soda water. 2 glasses of sherry. 1 glass of brandy. 1 glass curafoa. CUP. llind of half a lemon thinly pared. 1 wineglassful powdered sugar. A little nutmeg. 1 sprig of borage or mint. Mix all the ingredients together, and ice it well. 1 bottle claret. 2 bottles soda water. A little grated nutmeg. CLARET CUP. 6 cloves. Borage or fresh cucumber. 1 teacupful castor sugar. 1 liqueur glass maraschino. Put the claret, spices, cucumber, or borage, sugar, and maras- chino in a bowl, and cover it for half an hour before serving. Add ^ lb. ice, broken up in small pieces, and the soda water, and serve. CLARET CUP (Another Method). 2 bottles claret. 1 tumblerful of sherry. 2 wineglassful brandy. 1 bottle of lemonade. 1 spray of borage. Kind of a cucumber. 2 lbs. loaf sugar. i lb. ice. Put the sugar in a punch bowl, with the borage and cucumber rind, pour in the claret, and add the sherry and brandy. Put the crushed ice in the bowl an hour before serving, and the lemonade immediately before. If borage cannot be procured, use the rind of a lemon, and soda-water instead of lemonade. MULLED 1 bottle claret. 1 pint water. 12 cloves. CLARET. 12 allspice. A little whole cinnamon. Kind of 1 lemon. ^ lb. lump sugar. Simmer the spices, sugar, and the thinly cut lemon rind in the water, and when boiling, strain it into another saucepan over the claret. Warm up, but do not boil, and serve at once.174 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES KING CUP. Juice of 2 lemons, and thinly pared rind. 2 oz. white sugar. Ice. A large piece of whole ginger. H pints boiling water. 3 glasses of sherry. Pour the boiling water over the lemon juice and thinly pared rinds, the ginger, and the sugar. Let it stand till cold, and then strain it. Add the sherry and some lumps of clear ice. LEMONADE. 4 lemons. | 1 quart of boiling water. Loaf sugar to taste. Rub some lumps of sugar on the lemons, to get the oil or essence of lemon. Put them into a large jug, squeeze the juice of the lemons over them. Pour the water over it, and let it stand ^ an hour. If not sweet enough, add more sugar. Strain, and use when cold. ORANGEADE. is made the same way as lemonade, but does not require as much sugar. ORGEAT. 6 oz. sweet almonds. 1 quart of water. 2 oz. bitter almonds. $ pint oraDge-fiower water. 3 lbs. loaf sugar. Blanch, skin, and pound the almonds in a mortar, adding the water by degrees. Strain and press as much as possible of the almond-milk through a cloth. Add the sugar and orange-flower water, and put it into an enamelled saucepan. Bring it to the boil, skim well, and strain it again. Use when cold. EGG PUNCH. 4 yolks and 2 egg whites. 1 quart of water. 4 lb. castor sugar. A little loaf sugar. 3 lemons. 1 bottle white wine. I- pint of rum or brandy. Beat up the 4 yolks and 2 whites till quite light and frothy. Add to them gradually 1 quart of water, the castor sugar, and some loaf sugar, which has been rubbed on the rinds of the lemons. Mix in the strained lemon juice and the white wine.175 BEVERAGES Whisk all over the fire till hot and frothy. Remove from the stove, and add the brandy or rum. Serve hot. RUM PUNCH. 3 lemons. I 1 pint of rum. i lb. loaf sugar. | 1 quart of boiling water. Rub some of the lumps of sugar on the lemons till all the yellow rind has been absorbed. Put them into a punch-bowl, and pour 1 pint of boiling water over them. Add the strained juice of the lemons and the rum. Pour over the rest of the boiling water, adding more than 1 quart if found too strong. Let it stand a few minutes in a warm place, stir well, and serve. WINE PUNCH. 1 lb. lump sugar. I 1 quart water. 1 lemon. / j- pint brandy. ^ bottle of red, and i bottle white wine. Pare the lemon thinly and boil the rind in the sugar and water for a few minutes. Strain it into a bowl, and add the brandy, red and white wine. TEA A LA RUSSE. Slice a fresh juicy lemon, lay a piece in the bottom of each cup, sprinkle with castor sugar, if liked, and pour the tea over very hot. WHITE WINE WHEY. ^ pint of milk. | 2 lumps of sugar. 1 wineglassful sherry. Boil the milk and sugar together, and when boiling pour in the sherry. This will curdle it. Strain it through fine muslin, and drink hot. Currant or raisin wine can be used instead of sherry. This hot drink is excellent for a bad cold.PASSOVER COOKERY SOUPS.—Finely sieved rnotza meal must be mixed in, if thickening is required, instead of Hour. FISH.—Must be dipped in fine rnotza meal and egg for frying. STEWED FISH.—Requires rnotza meal in the balls instead of breadcrumbs, and the sauce must also be thickened with the meal. ENTREES.—Sauces for entrees can be thickened with rnotza meal or potato Hour. Cutlets can be dipped in egg and rnotza meal and fried. PUDDINGS.—The following can Almond Puddings. Apple Macaroon. Apple Snow. Barcelona Cake. Chocolate Cake. Chocolate Souffles. Cranberry Jelly. Compote of Fruit. Fruit Salads. Lemon Creams. Lemon Souffle. Potato be made as usual during Passover. Lemon Whip. Macaroon Basket. Marmalada. Meringues. Nougat. Oranges and Cocoa-nut. Orange Compote. Caramel Custards. Little Cocoa-nut Puddings. Coffee Custards. Slippery Pudding. Souffle.PASSOVER COOKERY. 1 77 The following puddings and cakes are special recipes for Passover : — APPLE FRITTERS. 1 lb. apples. 2 tablespoonsful sieved meal. finely 2 eggs. Frying fat or oil. Cinnamon and sugar. Peel and core the apples, and cut them in neat slices. Make a batter with the eggs and meal, and dip each slice of apple in it. Fry them, drain on paper, dish them up, and sprinkle with castor sugar, and ground cinnamon. PASSOVER PLUM PUDDING. | lb. raisins, stoned. ^ lb. currants, washed. 2 oz. castor sugar. A little spice. ^ a soaked motza. 3 eggs. 1 oz. chopped almonds. 2 oz. finely sieved meal. ^ lb. suet. Chopped rind of a lemon. 1 tablespoonful rum if liked. Chop the suet, stone and chop the raisins, add the other ingredients, and mix well with the whisked eggs. Steam it in a greased basin for 2 hours. It can be served with rum sauce. HOT PRELATO PUDDING. 6 prelatoes. 3 eggs. £ pint milk. 1 oz. ground almonds. 2 oz. castor sugar. Put the prelatoes in a pie-dish; beat up the egg yolks, add the milk, sugar, and almonds, and pour it over the prelatoes. Bake it in a moderate oven about 30 minutes. Beat the egg whites with a little castor sugar, spread it on the top of the pudding ■when it is baked, set it for 5 minutes in the oven, and serve hot. PRELATO TRIFLE. G prelatoes. | 1 oz. almonds. £ pint custard. Arrange the prelatoes on a silver dish, pour over the well flavoured custard while hot, decorate with blanched almonds, and serve cold. N178 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. RUM OMELET. Omelette ciu Rhum. 3 new-laid eggs. 1 tablespoonful cream or milk. 1 oz. castor sugar. £ oz. butter. 1 wineglassful rum. Beat the yolks and whites separately, and then together. Stir in the sugar and milk, and 1 tablespoonful rum. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, pour in the mixture, let it set, pass a knife round the edges of the pan to keep the omelet from sticking, let it cook for 2 or 3 minutes till the underside is firm, and the top frothy. Fold it over, and slip it off the pan on to a hot dish. Pour over the rest of the rum, light it, and serve im- mediately. SPONGE ROLL. £ teacupful motza meal. | ^ teacupful castor sugar. 4 eggs. Beat the yolks, add the sugar, then the motza meal very finely sieved, and, lastly, the stiffly beaten egg -whites. Spread it on greased paper on a baking-tin, and bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. Turn it out on to a sugared board, remove the paper, spread rjuickly with lemon or chocolate mixture, and roll up. LEMON CHEESECAKE MIXTURE. 3 eggs. 0 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 lemons. Melt the butter, add the eggs well beaten, the sugar, rind of 1, and juice of 2 lemons. Simmer all gently till the mixture thickens, stirring all the time. Use cold. WHIPPED CREAMS. 1 pint cream. Grated chocolate, strong coffee, Sugar to taste. or other flavourings. Whip the cream stiff, add the grated chocolate and sugar to taste, and pile it roughly on a dish. Or the cream can be flavoured with a little very strong coffee, or chopped burnt almonds. For the latter, place 2 oz. castor sugar in a little saucepan, let it colour, and then throw in 1 oz. finely chopped almonds. Let them get coated with the sugar, turn them into a mortar, pound them, and use them with the cream.INDEX Menus . ... ... ... oa t—1 1 p PAGE. PAGE Soups. Cod a la Suedoise ... 18 Fish, Fillets of, Fried a la 18 Good Sto'ck . - « 7 1 Francaise .. Good White Stock ... . . . 7 Fish, Fillets of, Rolled, 1!) White Vegetable Stock . . • 8 Cream Sauce Brown ,, „ *. • 8 Fish, a la Rarigotte 19 Almond Soup . • . 8 ,. Salad 20 Artichoke Soup .. . 8 ,, Scalloped 20 Bonne Femme Soup 8 „ Stewed ... 20 (Another method) 1) „ Vol-au-Vent of 21 Calf’s Foot Soup .. . 9 Haddock, Timbales of 21 Cauliflower Soup ... 10 Herrings, Rolled 21 Chestnut Soup . . . 10 Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel 22 Chicken Broth . . . 10 „ „ Normande ... 22 Clear Asparagus Soup .. . 10 „ Portuguese ... 22 Consomme a la Royale . . • 11 Mullet a l’ltalienne 23 Crofttons for Soup ... . . . 1 1 „ Red,en Papillottes... 23 Cressy Soup ... 1 1 Salmon Cutlets 23 Dried Green Pea Soup (Milk) 11 ,, a la Suedoise 24 Egg Balls , . . 12 „ Fritters 21 Giblet Soup ... . . . 12 ,, Pickled Smelts, Brochet of ... 24 Green Flageolets Soup . • t 12 25 Julienne Soup .. . 13 Sole in Aspic... 25 Kidney Soup .. . 13 „ Devilled... 25 Liver Balls ... 13 „ Fillets of, in Aspic 26 Macaroni (Milk) Soup . . • 14 ,, ,, a l’Espagnole... 26 Meat Balls • • • 14 ,, ., a l’Orlie 26 Mock Turtle Soup ... « . • 14 „ „ a la Venitienne 27 Onion Soup (Milk) ... • . • 15 ,, Sava lade of 27 Parmentier Soup (Milk) . . . 15 ,, a la Turque 28 Potato Soup 8 Turbot, Hollandaise Sauce 23 Pot au feu •« • 15 Whitebait 28 Portable Soup 17 ,, Devilled ... Whiting. Boudins of 2!) Puree of Leeks • • • 16 29 Spanish Soup 16 „ Filletsof,alTtalienne 29 Tomato Soup . • • 16 ,, ,, Stuffed 29 Turkey Soup... * * * 17 Entrees. Fisii, Aspic Jelly 30 Cod a la Creme 18 Beef Olives a l’Allemande 30 Cod’s Roe Fried .. 18 Brain Patties 30 N 2• 180 INDEX. PACK. PACE. Calves’ Feet Fritters 31 ,, Head in Batter, Meats. Remouladen Sauce 31 Calf's Head Stew 31 Beef, Braised a l'Espagnole 48 ,, Tongue with Tomato ,. Fillet of. a laLouisXV. 48 Sauce 32 „ ,, Roast 49 Chicken. Blanciuette of 32 ,, Spiced... 49 ., Chaudfroid of 32 ,, Smoked, Roiled 49 ,, Fried 33 Lamb, Roast Keck of 4!* ,, and Rice, Stewed... QQ „ and Sprue 50 a la Suisse... .*>)> Mock Hare ... 50 „ Tartlets of... 34 Mutton a PAllemande 50 ,, Timbale of 34 ,, Grilled 51 Croquettes 34 ,, Leg of, boned 51 „ a l’lm per a trice ... 35 ,, Leg of, a la Durand 51 Curry, Cold 35 „ Leg of, with Toma- Egg Fritters... 35 toes & Mushrooms 52 Eggs, Sa\onry 3!) „ Loin of, Braised Epigrammes ... 36 with Mushrooms... 52 Fillets of Beef with Horse- ., Saddle of, a la radish Sauce 36 Bourgeoise 52 Fillets of Beef ala Jardiniere 37 ,, Shoulder of, Boned 51 ,, „ with Olives... 37 ,, Stewed with Celery 53 Giblet Risotto 37 .. ,, ,, Leeks 53 „ Stew ... 38 Sirloin, Roast 53 Kidneys and Tomatoes 38 Steak, Stewed with Chestnuts 54 Mushroom Patties . 38 ., ,, ., Tomatoes 54 Mutton Cutlets a l’ltalienne 38 Veal, Collared 54 „ a la Reforme 39 ,, Fillet of, Braised 54 Ox Palates, Braised... 39 „ Galantine of ... 55 „ Tongue, Sliced ala Monaco 40 ., White Fricandeau of 55 „ ,, Stewed—Piquante Sauce ... 40 „ „ with Tomato Sauce 41 Poultry and Game. Pigeons. Stewed 41 Potato Cups with Brains . 4 1 Breadcrumbs for Game, etc. 56 Sheep's Tongues Stewed 42 Capon. Roast... 67 Spanish Onions. Stuffed 42 Chicken in Casserole 56 Sweetbreads, Fried ... 42 ., Roast, with Watercress 56 Stewed 4 3 Duck, Roast., with Apple Sauce 57 Tomato Entree, Cold 43 ., Salmis of 57 Veal, Blanquette of... 43 Fowl, Boiled, Avith Sauce ... 57 ,, Cutlets a la Milanaise 4 1 ,, Curried 58 ,, ,, Savoury 44 Game or Poultry, Darioles of 68 ., Cutlets ala Vcnitienne 4 1 Giblet Pie 58 ., Gateau of 46 Goose, Roast, with Apple ,, Quenelles of ... 46 Sauce 58 Tournedos of ., 47 Pheasant, Roast with Water- Venetian Steaks 47 crrss 59181 ]Nt)EX. PAGE. Pigeons, Bordeaux, Roast ... 59 „ and Beef Steak Pie f 9 ,, in Casserole ... 60 Quails, Roast ... ... 59 Stuffing, Sage and Onion ... CO Turkey, Boiled 60 „ Roast, Chestnut Stuffing ... ... ... 61 Venison, Roast Haunch of 61 Potatoes a la Lyonnaise PAG 15. 68 ,, New, Boiled 69 ,, Sautees ... 69 Salsify ... 69 ,, in Batter 70 „ Fried ... 70 Seakale 70 Spinach, Boiled ... 70 Vegetables, Macedoine of ... 70 Watercress 70 Vegetables. Artichoke Bottoms, a la Princesse... ... ... 62 Artichokes, Globe ... ... 62 ,, ,, Stewed... 62 Asparagus ... ... ... 62 ,, Stewed ... ... 63 Aubergines (Egg-plant) wi th Anchovies ... ... 63 Aubergines, Fried ... ... 63 ,, ala Languedoj 64 Beans, Broad 64 „ French 64 Beetroots, Boiled 61 Brussels Sprouts and Chest- nuts ... 64 Cabbage, Red, Stewed ... 65 Cardoons ... ... ... 65 Carrots and Green Peas a l’Allemande ... ... 65 Carrots au Jus 65 Cauliflower a la Varenne ... 66 ,, Fritters ... 66 Celeriac, Fried 66 ,, with White Sauce 66 Celery, Fried 66 Stewed 67 Chestnuts as Vegetables ... 67 Endive, Boiled 67 Leeks, Stewed ... ... 67 Lettuce, Boiled 67 Peas, Green, Boiled 68 Potato Croquettes ... ... 68 .) Loaves ... ... 68 Ribbons • ... ... 69 j, Straws 69 Salads. Salad a l’Allemande 71 J) of Beans, French 71 V „ „ an l Tomatoes ... 71 5? of Cabbage, White ... 72 J? „ ^ Red 72 J) Chicken, a l’Ameri caine 72 ;> Celery ... 72 n ,, and Tomato... 72 j> Country 73 a la Dumas 73 ? 5 a l’Estragon ... 73 n Herring 74 j? of Jerusalem Arti- chokes 74 •> Mushroom 74 •? Potato 75 Sardine en Mayonnaise 75 5? „ en Vinaigrette 75 Spring... 75 J) Swedish 76 Tomato Jelly... 76 JJ White Winter 76 Sauces. Anchovy Sauce 77 Apple „ 77 Bechamel ,, a la creme... 77 Brandy „ 78 Bread ,, 78 Browning for Soups and Gravies 73 Brown Sauce 78 Butter, Black 79index. 18-2 F Caper Sauce, Brown Celery „ Chocolate „ Cranberry ,, Custard ,, Dutch „ Egg _ „ Gherkin ,, Glaze ... Gravy Spice for Stews, etc. Horseradish Sauce „ ,, German Lemon Sauce „ „ for Fowls Madeira „ Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Mayonnaise „ .. „ ,, Green Mint Sauce Mushroom Sauce Mustard Sauce, for Broi'ed Fish Onion Sauce Orange „ Piquante ,, Raspberry Jam Sauce ... Ravigotte Sauce Remouladen Sauce Robert Sauce Spanish ,, Swedish „ Tar tare „ Tomato „ to Bottle ... ,, „ {Another method) Vinaigrette Sauce ... White Sauce „ „ Sweet... Wine Sauce, German Meat Sweets. Almond Meringue ... „ Pudding ... Apple Macaroon „ Snow Apricot Eggs ,, Souffle Barcelona Cake Blackberry Pudding FACE. 90 Beaconsfield Pudding 90 Cabinet Pudding 90 Caledonian Cream ... 90 Caramel Trifle 91 Charlotte Russe, Burnt Al- mond 91 Chestnut Mould 91 Chocolate Cake 92 „ Souffles 92 Citron Pudding 92 Claret Jelly (from Ox foot) 93 Cocoa-nut Tart 93 College Puddings 93 Cranberry Jelly 94 Fruit, Compote of 94 „ Salad 94 ,, „ {Anothermethod) 94 „ Souffle of 96 Gateau of Cherries ... 96 Genoese Pastry 96 Haman’s Ears 96 Jaumange 97 Lemon Creams 97 „ Bie 97 ,, Souffle 98 ,, Wafers 98 „ Whip 98 Luction, A Modern ... 99 Macaroon Basket ... 99 Marmaladas, Egg ... 99 Marmalade Pudding 99 Marzipan Tartlets ... 100 Meringues 100 Mincemeat ... 100 Nougat 101 Noyau Jelly with Apricots... 101 Orange Compote 102 ,, Snow 102 Oranges and Cocoa-nut 101 Pancakes 102 Pine-apple Foam 102 Plum Pudding 103 Pull Pastry for Meat ... 103 Redcap Pudding 103 Red Plum Jelly 103 Rothe Griitze 104 Ruby Jelly ... 104 Sabbath Pudding 104 AGE. 7!) 7!) 79 80 80 80 80 81 81 81 81 81 82 82 82 82 82 83 83 83 83 83 84 84 84 84 85 85 85 86 86 86 86 87 87 87 87 88 88 88 8!) 89 89 89183 INDEX. Samba you rAGE. 105 Stetfan 105 Strawberry Custards 105 ,, Jelly, Fresh ... 106 Victoria Sandwich ... 106 Milk and Butter Sweets. Almond Cheesecakes 107 Amsterdam Pudding 107 Apple Amber Pudding 107 „ Charlotte 108 Batter Puddings 108 Beignets Souffles 108 Bola, Rich ... 109 Canary Pudding 109 Caramel Custards ... 109 Castle Baskets 110 Chocolate Cheesecakes 110 „ Jelly 110 „ Pudding, Light ... 111 Cocoa-nut Puddings, Little 111 Codling Tart, Cream 111 Coffee Custards, Boiled 112 „ „ Steamed ... 111 Cornets 120 Cream, Apricot 112 ,, Black Currant 112 „ Buns 112 „ Chestnut 113 ,, Chocolate ... 113 „ Honeycomb... 114 „ Lecker 114 ,, Pine-apple 114 „ Rice Mould... 115 ,, Stone 115 ,, Tapioca 115 Creams a la Duchesse Marie 113 „ Fruit 114 ,, Gooseberry ... 114 Eclairs 115 Empress Pudding ... 116 Genoese Pastry 116 German Apple Tart 116 „ Puffs or Portland Puddings 117 Lemon Cheesecakes 117 Pancakes, French ... 117 Pine-apple Pudding 117 Pine-apple Trifle PAGE. 118 „ Cream Cake 118 Portland Puddings or Ger- man Puffs 117 Puff Pastry ... 118 Purim Fritters . . 120 Rice Mould 120 Royal Trifle ... 120 Siesta Cake ... 121 Slippery Pudding ... 121 Souffle, Almond 121 ,, Burnt Almond 122 ,, Coffee 121 ,, Potato 122 Thatched Pudding ... 122 Vanilla Slices 123 Viennese Chocolate Cake (Sacher Torte) ... 123 Wafer Cornets 123 Savouries. Anchovies on Toast... ... 124 Anchovy Mayonnaise Toasts 124 Artichokes with Horseradish Sauce ... ... ... 124 Caviar, Mock 125 Cucumber Savoury ... ... 125 Egg and Anchovy in Paste 125 Eggs a la Bonne Femme ... 125 ,, Moulded ... ... 126 „ Tomato... ... ... 126 Foie Gras ... ... ... 126 Herring Roes a la Russe ... 126 ,, or Mackerel Toast 127 Kipper Savouries ... ... 127 Liver Toast ... 127 Marrow Bones with Toast 128 ,, Patties ... ... 128 Savoury Marrow Toast ... 128 Smoked Cod’s Roe Savouries 128 128 Soft Roes on Toast 129 Sardine Biscuits ... ... 129 „ Savoury ... ... 130 Sardines, Devilled 129 „ „ (Another method) 129 Savoury Toasts a l'ltalienne 130 Tomato Baskets 130184 INDEX. TAGE. Ices. Hints cn Ice-making . . . 131 Apricot Cream Ice ... 131 ,, Water Ice... * . • 131 Banana Ice # . 132 Biscuit „ i • • 132 Brown Bread Ice • • • 132 Caramel Ice Cream ... ... 132 Cherry Water Ice ... • • t 133 Chocolate Cream Ice • • • 133 Cocoa-nut Ice ... 133 Coffee Ice Cream • • • 133 Iced Coffee • » • 133 Ginger Ice ... 134 Gooseberry Fool Ice 134 Greengage Water Ice • . • 134 Ice Pudding ... 134 Iced Meringues • . • 135 Lemon Cream Ice ... • • • 133 „ Water Ice ... ... 135 Muscovite Cream Ice ... 135 Peach Water Ice 135 Pine-apple Water Ice • • • 136 Pistachio Cream Ice • t • 136 Praline Ice ... 136 Punch a la Romaine • • • 136 Raspberry and Currant Water Ice i • • 137 Sorbet au Rhum 137 Strawberry Water Ice • . • 137 ,, Cream ,, • • • 138 Tangerine Water „ • • • 137 Vanilla Cream ,, . . • 138 Sweetmeats. Introduction ... 139 Almonds, Iced ... 139 Chocolate Caramels... ... 139 Cocoa-nut Ice ... 139 ,, Kisses ... 138 Coffee Caramels ... 139 Ever ton Toffee ... 140 Fondants PAGE. ... 140 ,, Almond ... ... 140 ,, Cherry Cream ... 140 ,, Chocolate... ... 140 ,, Crystallised .. 140 Cream Walnuts ... 141 Lemon Creams ... 142 Marrons G laces ... 141 Marzipan ... 141 „ Potatoes ... ... 141 Orange Creams ... 142 Popcorns Iced ... 142 Turkish Delight ... 142 Breakfast and Cheese Dishes. Artichokes, Jerusalem, with Cheese • • • 143 Bloaters, Mullyon ... 143 Cheese Creams •. • 143 „ Eggs . . . 144 „ Nuggets . . . 144 „ Pudding .. • 144 „ Ramakins ... ,,, 144 „ Straws • • • 145 Eggs, Curried • • • 145 ,, Japanese . . • 145 Stirred, with Tomatoes 146 „ Stuffed • • • 146 „ with Tomato Sauce 146 „ Whirled • • • 146 ,, in White Sauce • • • 147 Fish, Potted 147 Haddock, Croutes of 147 „ and Rice ... 148 „ Toast 148 Macaroni au Gratin 148 Mushrooms „ „ ... 148 ,, Stuffed ... • • • 149 Omelet • • • 149 „ Cheese > • • 149 „ Mushroom ... • i • 149 ,, Tomato • • • 149 Rice, Polish ... • • • 150 Risotto, Tomato • • • 150 Spaghetti . . . 150 Tomatoes, Breakfast ... 150185 INDEX. PAGE. Cakes, Bread, and Biscuits. Almond Cake ... ... 152 ,, Rings ... ... 152 „ Rock Cakes ... 152 Ballettes 152 Berlinkoes ... ... ... 153 Biscuit Sandwiches... ... 153 Bretzel (German Biscuits)... 154 Butter Cakes... ... ... 154 Chocolate Cakes ... ... 154 „ Cornflour Cake... 155 „ Fingers ... ... 155 Chollas ... ... ... 155 Cocoa-nut Cones ... ... 154 Coffee Cakes, Little 155 „ Glaze ... ... ... 156 Currant Loaf... ... ... 156 Dainty Cake ... ... ... 156 Dundee Cake 156 Fairy Cakes 157 Fruit Cakes, Little 157 German Biscuits (Bretzel)... 154 Ginger Biscuits 157 Gingerbread Cake 157 Icing, Almond ... ... 158 „ Butter or Viennese ... 158 „ Chocolate 158 „ Coffee... ... ... 158 „ Orange ... .. 158 ,, Royal 158 „ White Vanilla ... 158 Invalid’s Cake 159 Lawn-tennis Cake ... ... 159 Macaroons ... 159 ,, German ... ... 159 Madeira Cake ... ... 160 Madelines ... ... ... 160 Marbled Cake ... ... 160 Milk Bread ... ... ... 161 Pentecost Biscuits ... ... 161 Plum Cake, Rich ... 161 „ ,, ,, forllanucah 162 Pound Cake, German ... 162 Queen Cakes.. ... ... 163 Rout Cakes ... ... ... 163 Salt Straws ... ... ... 163 Seed Cake, Rich ... ... 164 Short-bread ... Shrewsbury Biscuits Snow Cake ... Snowdrop Cakes SpoDge-Cake Sultana Scones Tea-cakes, Little Hot Vanilla Finger Biscuits Variegated Cakes ... Vienna Bread Walnut Cake Jams and Jellies. Apricot Jam ... ,, Marmalade... Blackberry Jam „ Jelly Black Currant Jam... Cherry Jam ... Damson Jam... „ Jelly Gooseberry Jam Greengage Jam Madeira Marmalade Plum Jam Quince and Apple Compote „ Jelly ,, Marmalade ... Raspberry Jam Red Currant Jam ... » „ Jelly Strawberry Jam Beverages. Champagne Cup Chocolate Cider Cup Claret Cup ... „ ., [Another method) „ Mulled Coffee with Milk ,. Turkish KingCup Lemonade Orangeade AGE. 161 164 164 165 165 165 165 166 166 166 167 168 168 168 168 171 169 169 169 169 169 170 170 170 170 171 171 171 171 171 173 172 173 173 173 173 172 172 174 174 174INDEX. 180 Orgeat PAGE. 174 Punch, Egg 174 „ Hum ... 175 ,, Wine... 175 Tea a la Russe 175 White Wine Whey 175 Recipes Suitable for Invalids. Apple Snow ... 80 Barley Water iii Boudins of Whiting 20 Chicken Broth 10 „ Boiled 57 ,, Roast 56 ,, and Rice, Stewed... 33 Consomme a la Royale 11 Gruel ... iii Invalid’s Cake 159 Jelly from Ox Foot... 93 Lemonade 174 Omelet 140 Orangeade 174 Orange Snow 102 Slippery Pudding ... 121 White Wine Whey ... ... 175 Passover Cookery. Passover Entrees 176 ,, Fish 176 Passover Plum Pudding PAGE. 177 ,, Soups 176 Almond Puddings ... 88 Apple Fritters 177 „ Macaroon 88 „ Snow ... 89 Barcelona Cake 89 Caramel Custards ... 109 Chocolate Cake 92 ,, Souffle 92 Cocoa-nut Puddings, Little.. 111 Coffee Custards 111 Cranberry Jelly 94 Fruit, Compote of ... 94 „ Salad ... 94 Lemon Cheesecake Mixture. 178 ,, Creams 97 „ Souffle 98 „ Whip 98 Macaroon Basket 99 Marmaladas, Egg ... 99 Meringues 100 Nougat 101 Omelet, Rum 178 Oranges and Cocoa-nut 101 Orange Compote 102 Potato Souffle 122 Prelato Pudding. Hut 177 „ Trifle, Cold... 177 Slippery Puddii g ... 121 Sponge Roll 178 Whipped Creams ... 178 r Printed by WERTHEIMER, PEA & Co., Clifton House, Worship Street, and 46 & 47, London Wall, London, E.C.187 ADVERTISEMENTS. Remylina Is the Finest and Lightest CORN FLOOR . . FOR Blanc-Manges, Custards, Creams, Puddings, Cakes, Shortbread, Jellies, Ices, Thickening of Soups, Sauces, etc. Specially Recommended for the Nursery and Invalids * Miss K. HALFORD, of 2, Woodchurch Road, West Hampstead, and all other leading Cookery Teachers have declared that the Remylina is the finest, lightest, and most delicate Corn Flour ever produced. SOLD AT AIL GROOERY STORES In ^,-lb. Packets, at 2d. each.ADVERTISEMENTS. 188 Breakfast Relishes and Supper Dainties. A. ABRAHAMS’ CELEBRATED PROVISIONS. BEEF. TONGUES. Smoked. Salt. Spiced. Smoked. Salt. Preserved. Soup, Galantine of Chicken, Sausages, Saveloys, Worsht, OF THE FINEST QUALITY. ABRAHAMS’ — Celebrated Sandwiches. Price List and Order Form Orders by Telephone receive sent free on application . . prompt and careful attention. 59, Middlesex St., Aldgate, E C. Telegraph'c Address: “PYCNITE, LONDON.” Telephone No. 54, AVENUE. Agent for Glasgow .. P. L. ORCHUDESCH, 15, Charing Cross Mansions. „ Liverpool .. COHN, 6, Fairclough Lano. ( CHARIK, 21, Hurst Street. „ « ham .. £ PETERS, 29, Smallbrook Street.189 ADVERTISEMENTS. AN ADMITTED ANTIDOTE FOR INDIGESTION. Coombs’ EUREKA SELF-RAISING 18 GOLD MEDALS Is the BEST and ABSOLUTELY PURE. Flour Sold in 3d., 6d., 1/ and 2/6 Bags. cy ^ For Infants vUUi 11 Uo and Invalids 3 Gold Medals. Malted Food Is a Perfect and Invaluable Article of Diet. Sold in 6d., 1/-, 2 6 and 5/- Tins. Coombs’ Effervescing Fruit Saline AN INVALUABLE COOLING DRINK, Allaying Feverishness, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Constipation. Sold in 5-oz. and 10-oz. Tins. Coombs' health Salt A Most Refreshing Drink. Sold in Rib. Tins. Coombs’ Custard, Blanc-Mange, Egg and Baking Powders, Sold in Id., 2d., 3d., 6d., and 1 - Boxes. Total Awards. Prix d’Honneur. 34 Medals (including 29 Gold). 2 Diplomas of Honour.ADVERTISEMENTS. 190 THIRD EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED. ECONOMICAL JEWISH COOK. S\ Modern Orthodox 4 Recipe Rook for . f young housekeepers t Especially adapted as a Class Rook . for Schools. . . ARRANGED BY MAY HENRY, A.A., CERTIFICATED NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, EDITH B. COHEN, CERTIFICATED NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY LONDON: WERTHEIMER, LEA & CO., Circus Place, London Wall, E.C. 1897. PRICE (Bound in Boards) ONE SHILLING AND SIXPENCE. Special Prices for Schools.ADVERTISEMENTS. 101 A WONDERFUL FOOD i i “The most Concentrated, Flesh- forming, Nourishing Food on Earth.” (V^ile •*Lancet,” Juhj 29,p., 151.) SHOULD BE USED DAILY IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD. PRIDEAUX’S CASUMEN THE MARVELLOUS LIFE FOOD. Added in the designated quantities to FOOD AND DRINK it increases their Nutritive value TENFOLD. “CASUMEN” is the nutritive elemontof pure English Milk, extracted and rendered into a light, white, dry, flaky, odourless, tasteless powder. “CASUMEN” will dissolve (without boiling) in nearly all fluids, and can he added to the morning cup of Cocoa, Tea, or Coffee, etc. It may be mixed with flour and with most farinaceous food-stuffs before cooking, vastly increasing their lightness and nourishing qualities. A small quantity of any food containing “CASUMEN” is far more nutritious and digestible than a large quantity without it. “CASUMEN” is the most perfect food known for the prevention and cure of Consumption, by sustaining and restoring the wasting human system ; and for all Kidney troubles. “CASUMEN” is specially recommended to those who lead sedentary lives, professional and military men, students, brain-workers, business men, and all working at high pressure, also sufferers from Tuberculosis, Consumption. Diabetes, Dyspepsia, Gout, Rheumatism, Extreme Exhaustion from Influenza, and all Wasting Diseases, sustaining and restorative alike to those in health as well as the invalid, the weak and the sickly. Send for full detailed prospectus containing full analytical report by The Lancet; a table of the remarkable food value of “CASUMEN,” as compared with articles of everyday diet; directions for use, etc. Price (in boxes), 2 lb., 4s. ; 1 lb., 2s. ; \ lb., is. ; 1 lb., 6d.; and 2 oz., 3d. I lb. post sample is. Bulk in bags, is. gd. per lb., of Chemists, Stores, Grocers, and Dairies, or direct from PRIDEAUX’S PURE CASEIN AND LIFE FOOD CO., LTD., Motcombe, Dorset, England. Directions for the use of “ CASUMEN.” Twenty-five per cent, of the powder to be mixed with Dry Coffee, Cocoa, etc., and then used in the ordinary way. Ten to twenty per cent, can be mixed with Rico, Sago, Arrowroot, Oatmeal, Corn- flour, and all Farinaceous Foods. Dry Casumen may be added to Orange Marmalade with great dietetic advantage. For Sandwiches sprinkle the Dry Casumen over Broad and Butter. Dissolve in a little water before adding to hot liquid. Prideaux’s Pure Casein and Life Food Go., Ltd. Motcombe, Dorset, England.