j f<*K ' "ir> if, rteraxd. • XD,' I -j •3t •,., !. ■ I ^ » ^ 101/ t -r 0 9 '' ', { LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: A A/t\T JOHN HODGKIN. F.LS.'T . ''<• "t'l ' IT ♦ • ' y . Ut vwCOMPLETE CONFECTIONER. [6s. 6cl. BOARDS.]THE COMPLETE CONFECTIONER. OR THE WHOLE ART OF jfCCCSlDiSaiBP MADE EASY : fj iii Instructions to decorate a Table xvith Taste and Elegance. THE XESULT.OF MANY YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH THE CELEBRATED NEGRI AND WITTEN. By FREDERIC NUTT, Esq. THIRD EDITION,WITH CONSIDERABLE ADDITIONS. LONDON: PRINTED FOR MATHEWS AND LEIGH, 18, STRAND. 1806.A 3 ADVERTISEMENT. The flattering reception which this work has experienced from a discerning Public, calls forth a tribute of gratitude from the Author, and merits his warmest thanks. With the assistance of several intelligent friends, this edition is considerably enlarged. It is very extraordinary, that only one work, except the pre- sent, was ever presented to the world, on the Art of Confection- ary: that production has already met with the contempt which it justly deserved. As the Author had the honor to occupy a distinguished situ-ADVERTISEMENT VI ation in this particular ment, he has availed hi several years* experience plication, in compiling t formance which he again to the indulgence and of his readers;. [ vii ] A 4 CONTENTS. BISCUITS, &C. •<!= I -•■■ ■ N«. I. Fi SE Savoy Biscuits. 2. Fine Spunge Biscuits. 3. Orange Heart Biscuits. 4. Naples Biscuits. 5- Syringe Biscuits. 6. Bobe de Chambre Biscuits. 7. Common Savoy Biscuits. 8. Sweetmeat Biscuits. 9. Monkey Biscuits. 10. Spice Biscuits. 11. Toad in a Hole Biscuits.Vlll CONTENTS N®. 12. Millcfruit Biscuits. 13. Masapan Biscuits. 14. Judges Biscuits. 15. 9lueerL S Cakes. 16. Yarmouth Biscuits. 17. King's Biscuits. 18. Chocolate Biscuits. 19. Italian Water Biscuits. 20. Water Cakes with Carr Seeds. 21. French Rusks. 22. Fine Sweetmeat Gingeri Nuts. 23. Turtulongs,fine,for Brea^ 24. Fine Shrewsbury Cakes. 25. Lemon Biscuits. 26. The Way to Blanch Ahi 27. French Maccaroons. 28. Fnglish Maccaroons^ gnh called Common. 29. Ratafia Biscuits. 30. Orange Biscuits. 31. Filbert Biscuits. 32. Pistachio Nut Biscuits. lCONTENTS. IX A 5 N*. 33. Orange Flower Biscuits. 34. Fine Almond Fagots. 35. Fine Ginger Cakes. 36. Fresh Apricot Biscuits. 37. Fresh Barber?'}/ Biscuits. 38. Fresh Damson Biscuits, or Refined Cheese, 39. A Small Fine Almond Cake. 40. A Large Rich Two Guinea Cake. 41. A Small Rich Seed Cake. 42. A Small Rich Plumb Cake. WAFERS. ilv* 43. Lemon Wafer's. 44. Barberry Wafers. 45. Orange Wafers. 46. Bergamot Wafers. 47. Violet Wafers. 48. Peppermint Wafers.CONTENTS. X # DROPS. i l —» a- N*. 49. JBergamot Drops, 50. Black Currant Drops, 51. Chocolate Drops. 52. Damson Di'ops. 53. Seville Orajige Drops. 54. Lemon Drops. 55. Orange Drops. 56. Peppermint Drops. 57. Violet Drops. 58. Barley Sugar Drops. PRAWLONGS, &C. •a===> Lemon Prawbngs. 60. Orange Praivlongs. 61. Pistachio PrawlongSy 62. Burnt FilbertPrazdonCONTENTS. XI A 6 N®. 63. Orange Flower Praivlongs. - 64. Seville Orange Jumbles. 65. Burnt Almonds^ Red. ' 66. Burnt Almonds, White. 67. Pistachio Prawlongs, White. 68. Burnt Filberts, White. 69. Merings in the Form of Fggs. 70. Almond Paste. 71'. Orgeat Paste. 72. Orgeat Syrup. 73. Lemon Syrup. 74. Orange Syrup. 75. Seville Orange Syrup. 76. Apple Syrup. 77. Capillaire Syrup. JELLIES, &c. ■/^i' ■=;-r~rr-> 78. Current Jelly, Red and' White. 79. Rasberry Jelly, for Ices.CONTENTS. XU N®. 8o. Apple Jellyi to put ove\ Fruity or what you li 81. Ilartskorn Jelly. 82. Calvesfoot Jelly. 83. Black Currant Jelly 84. To make Blornonge. 85. Goosberry Jelly. JAMS, &c. •q ..-7 " ^ 86. Ji^SBERRY Jam. 87. Apricot Jam. 88. Strawberry Jam. 89. Barberry Jam, 90. Peach Jam, 91. Black Plumb Jam. 92. Rasberry Cakes, 93. Seville Orange Paste C 94. Millefruit Rock Candy. 95. Rock Sugar of all colourCONTENTS. Xlll N®. 96. Barley Sugar. 97. The way to make all sorts of Carraway Comfits. - 98. Cardamom Coinfits. 99. Carimel Crocont. 100. Whip, for a Trifle. 101. Everlasting Whipsyllabub to put into Glasses. 102. Floating Island. 103. Iceingfor a Rich Cake. 104. To Clarify Sugar for Sweet- meats. * ESSENCE FOR ICES. 105. Cedraty Essence. 106. Lemon Essence. 107. Orange Essence.CONTENTS. XIV WATERS, &C. FOR ROUTi 108. Lemonade. 109. Orangeade. no. Currant Water made c 111. Fresh Currant Water. 112. Cedraty Water. 113. Rasberry Watei\of R^ Jam. 114. Fresh Rasberry Watei 115. Bergamot Water. 116. Apricot Water. 117. Strawberry Water^ of berry Jam. 118. Fresh Strawberry Wr. 119. Barberry Water, 120. Peach Water. 121. Pear Water. 122. Cherry Water. 123. Orgeat,CONTENTS. XV ICE CREAMS. .d=:==a)< N®. 124. Barberry Ice Cream. 125. Rasberry Ice Cream. 126. Strazvbej'ry Ice Cream. 127. Apricot Ice Cream. 128. Fine Apple Ice Cream. 129. Currant Ice Cream. 130. Pistachio 'Ice Cream. 131. Biscuit Ice Cream. 132. Plain Ice Cream. 133. Brown Bread Ice Cream. 134. Royal Ice Cream. 135. Ginger Ice Cream. 136. Fresh Strawberry Ice Cream. 137. Fresh Rasberry Ice Cream. 138. Fresh Apricot Ice Cream. ^39* Cream.XVI CONTENl'S. N®. 140, Chocolate Ice Cream. 141. Seville Orange Ice Cr« 142. Lemon Ice Lream. 143. China Orange Ice Cre 144. Burnt Filbert Ice Cret 145. Burnt Ice Cream. 146. Millefruit Ice Cream. 147. Fr esh Currant Ice Cre^ 148. Cedraty Ice Cre a m. 149. Burnt Almond Ice Cre< 150. Parmasan Cheese Ice ( 151. Damson Ice Cream. 152. Prunello Ice Cream. 153. Peach Ice Cream. 154. Black Currant Ice CrCi 155. Cherry Ice Cream.CONTENTS. xvii WATER ICES, OF ALL SORTS. •c=s;==^ N®. 156 Barberry Water Ice. 157. Basherry Water Icc. 158. Strawberry Water Ice. 159. Apricot Water Ice. 160. Pine Apple Water Ice. 161. Chocolate Water Ice, 162. Seville Orange Water Ice, 163. China Orange Water Ice, j 64. Lemon Water Ice. 165. Punch Water Ice. 166. Peach Water Ice. 167. Currant Water Ice. 168. Fresh Currant Water Ice. 169. Fresh Basberry Water Ice. 170. Damson Water Ice.CONTENTS. XVlll N®. 171. Prujiello IVater Ice. I'll. Black Currant Water j 173. Grape Water Ice. 174. Cherry Water Ice. 175. Pear Water Ice. 176. Millefruit Water Ice. 177. Bergamot Water Ice. 178. Cedraty Water Ice, 179. Fresh Strawberry Wai FRUITS PRESERVED IN BRANDY. <i==SS=» 180. j4pricots, in Brandy 181. Peaches yin Brandy. 182. Morelia Cherriesy In L 183. Mogul PlumbSy in Brc 184. Green Gages, in Bran 185. Green Orange Pluml Brandy. 186. Grapes in Brandy.CONTENTS. XIX PRESERVED SWEETMEATS WET. •«===>' " « N“. 187. Green Apricotsj Wet. 188. Apricots Ripey Wet 189. Preserved Pine Apple Chips^ Wet. 190. Angelicay Wet. 191. Barberries in Sprigsy Wet. 192. Rasberries Whole, Wet. 193. Currants in Bunches, Whole, Wet. 194. Cedraties Whole, Wet. 195. Cherries Sweet, in Syrup. 196. Cherries not Sweet, Wet or Dry. 197. Cucumbers or Gerkins, Wet.XX CONTENl'S. 198. Comport Golden Pippins 199. Comport French Pears^ I Wet. 200. Comport French Pears, Wet. 20r. Damsons Whole, Wet. 202. Grapes in Bunches, We^ 203. Goosberries in the Fo Hops, JV^et. 204. Green Goosberries, Wei 205. Lemons, Whole, Wet. 206. Seville Oranges Whole, 207. Orange Peels, PFet. 208. Orange Chi/ys, Wet. 209. Lemon Chips, Wet. 210. Lemon Peels, Wet. 211. Pears, Wet. 212. Green Orange Plumbs, 213. Mogul Plumbs, 2 r 4. Pine Apples, Whole, li 215. A Small Yellow Plumb, 216. Strawberries Whole, 217. Apricot Chips, Wet. 218. Green Gages, JVet.XXI CONTENl'S. DRI£D FRUITS. <«===»* N®. 219. 220. 221. 222. 223. 224. 225. 226. 227. 228. 229. 230. 231. 232. JD^jmsons, Dried. Mogul PlumhSy Dried. Green Orange Plumbs, Dried. Green Gages, Dried. Pears Candied, or Dried. Cherries, Sweet, Dried. Cherries, not Sweet, Dried. Apricot Chips, Dried. Orange or Lemon Chips, Candied or Dried. Angelica Knots, Dried, Barberries in Bunches, Dried. Lemon Peels, Candied or Dried. Cucumbers, Dried. Green Apricots, Dried. 4-CONTENTS. -xxii N®. 233. Apricots full Grown, j , 234. Grapes in Bunches, Dr 235. Pine Apple Chips, Dri 236. Cedraties Whole or in ters. Dried. 237. Paste Knots, Red, or h MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS I - -ii 235. Perfetto Amore. 239. Persico. 240. Anniseed. 241. Cornelia or Cinnamon. 242. Coffee. 243. Chocolate. 244. Damson Cheese. 245. Apple Cheese. 246. Lemon Pudding.xxm CONTENTS. N®. 247. Carrot Pudding. 248. Citron Pudding. 249. Rice Cake. 250. Rice Cheese Cake. jTl'M 1 “ ^ ’I! ‘ n I 1i •I 1 / B.-5 t \I I PI.4- ! i I./ir■ f I • t A «4 ’ t ,o ri.er<Si I a. I # V <r- o ■i) 1 % « ■VT A "v. . 0 / ••XJL XaAL'1-VPlate 10 i t^ • 1. fine savoy biscuits. Break twelve eggs and put the yolks in a bason, then put in twelve ounces of powdered sugar with the yolks, then rasp the rind of four lemons, and mix and stir the rind up with the yolks and sugar, and beat them with a wooden spoon ten minutes, then whisk the whites m a copper pan, but do not leave whisk- ing them till they are almost strong enough to bear an egg, or they will go to water and be spoiled, and when you B2 THE COMPLI think you have whisked tl then mix the yolks with t wooden spoon as light as pc it is mixed well, take ten o flour as dry as possible, ar with the eggs and sugar, much, only till it mixes wi then take a small tea-spoon a spoonful of the batter and the paper, and as you pu' along the paper push the with your finger, so as to n cuit about three inches long half an inch wide ; then sif over them before you put oven, which must be very careful that they are not bui soon scorch if you do not v and when they are done c the paper whilst they are heCONFECTIONER. 5 N*. 2. FINE SPUNGE BISCUITS, <<! .iJV Take three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and put it in a bason, and take twelve eggs and break the w'hites into a copper pan, and put the yolks in with sugar, and beat the sugar and yolks together with a wooden spoon, till you see the sugar and yolks blow up in bladders of wind; then whisk the whites well till they are almost fit to bear an egg on them; then mix the yolks and the sugar with the whites, with a large spoon very lightly, and stir them as little as possible, only till you see the whites and yolks are just mixed; then take ten ounces of fine flour and mix well with the eggs; then butter the tin moulds well, before you put the batter in them, otherwise you will not get them out when they are baked, and when you have filled the tins, sift a lit- a 24 THE COMPLEl tie powdered sugar on the t( before you put them in tf makes them a very fine lo oven be moderate, and when them out of the tins w'hile tl for they will come out the t hot. . N®. S. ORANGE HEART B ====;!> Take three quarters of a powdered sugar, and put in ; son and put in thirty yolks o the sugar, and take sever orange peels and pound the] tar very fine, quite to a paste a handful of sweet and hal of bitter almonds, and poun( fine, and mix them with a 1 flower water; then put four and whites together, and p the bason with the sugar, peel, and mix them all w5 CONFECTIONER. with a wooden spoon in each hand, and beat them till you see the batter rise very much, though you can hardly beat them too* light, beat them till it turns quite white, and puffs up in blad- ders y then put in half a pound of sifted flour, and mix it with the batter very lightly; then butter the hearts, fill them, and sift a little powdered sugar over the top of them, before you put them in the oven, which must be rather quick, but not^too hot, otherwise they will not be light, and take them out of the tins while thev are hot. N°. 4. NAPLES BISCUITS. Take one pound and a half of Lisbon sugar, put it into a little copper saucepan, and three quarters of a pint, of wine measure, of water, in with the sugar, and one small cup full of orange B 3TOE COMPLE'j 6 flower water, and boil the su Avater till it is all melted; twelve eggs, whites and yol whisk them well, then pour syrup boiling hot in with th whisk them as fast as you can of pouring in the syrup, or f spoil, and when you have p in, keep whisking it till it i and set, and when it is coh pound and a half of flour, as light as possible; then pu of paper on the copper plat( on, then take one sheet of make the edges of it stand i inch and a half high, and po ter in it, sift some powdered si and put it in the oven, an carefully, to prevent its burn top; do not leave the oven c when you think it is near bak and wdien baked, take it onCONFECTIONER. per, and let it stand till cold, then turn it over, and wet the bottom of the paper, till the paper comes off with ease, tlien cut it to what size you like: you may bake it in small tins if you please. N°. 5. SYRINGE BISCUITS. Take one pound of sweet almonds, and pound them in a marble mortar -very fine with whites of eggs, but be careful not to make them too wet with the eggs, only just wet enough to pre- vent the almonds from getting oily, and when you find they get rather dry, then put another white of an egg in them, and pound them so fine, till you can scarce feel the least lump of an almond in it;, then rasp the rind of six lemons very fine, and put in two pounds and a half of powdered sugar, and m’x the su- gar, almonds, and.thepccl altogether as a B 4-8 THE COMPLE1 paste; then take a syringe : of copper, about twelve i and about two inches wide, i and to screw off at the bot little round copper plate, th inside of the syringe with a 1: in the middle of it, in the shi and the mould must have 1 about the middle of it; * tl paste to half fill your mould a rammer of wood the thic mould, put it over the paste it out against your breast uj ser, which must be floure( as not to stick, and it wdll the bottom of the mould, f pieces about three inches lo! them in rings, and put th] paper under them, before ) into the oven, otherwise tb for your oven must be very * Sec.Plate X.9 CONFECTIONER N*. 6. ROBE DE CHAMBRE BISCUITS, •q ■ Take syrup of sugar, and boil it over a brisk charcoal fire, till it comes to carimile, then have some Jordan al- monds ready, and put them into the carimile sugar, stir them up with a large wooden spoon over and over, till you see they are covered with sugar and dry, then throw them into a wooden sieve, and pick them that stick together and break them off, then make some iceing with whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and a little orange flower water, and put the almonds into the iceing, and see them well covered with it, then put two sheets of paper on the plate, and put your biscuits at a convenient distance from each other, so as not to touch ; let the oven be moderate to colour finely the iceing, and when they come out, let B 5THE COMPLE1 10 them stand till they are cold, take them off the papers. 7. COMMON SAVOY B ■<U—:= ^ Break six eggs in a Vv sauce pan, with half a pound c sugar, whisk the eggs and light, keep whibking them h then mix half a pound of with the eggs and sugar wit] spoon ; then take a tea spoc spoonful of batter and pull paper, and as you pull the s the paper, push the batter your finger, so as to make about three inches long, am an inch wide; then sift over them, before you put oven which must be very 1 careful that they are not bui soon scorch if you do not vCONFECTIONER. U B 6 and when they are done, cut them off the paper whilst they are hot, &:c. N°. 8. SWEETMEAT BISCUITS. ■<< - ■-=!>■ A K E some Naples biscuits that have been baked, and cut them in small pieces, about an inch and a half square, and about one inch thick, and lay them on your wire, and put them in the oven just to crisp them, then make some iceing with whites of eggs, and sugar and orange flower water, and dip one side of the biscuit in it; then cut some sweetmeats in small pieces, such as le- mon and orange peel, and angelico, and just thiow over the top of them, put them on your wire; you need no paper under them, then put them in the oven to harden the iceing, and they are done.THE COMPLET 12 N®. 9. MONKEY BISC Take six eggs and break and,yolks separate, and mix of six eggs of powdered sug yolks, and beat them we] then put the whites in a copp whisk them well, and put a ] moil pounded in with the sugar, then mix the yolks with the whites; then take and the weight of them of then mix and stir them altog( lay three or four sheets of pa plate you bake on; and spoonful of batter, and pui upper sheet of paper, then round and about the size of a piece, and join two of the with the spoon; and sift a littl sugar over them, and put t oven, watch them for they aCONFECTIONER. 43 a baking, and when they come out, cut them off the paper while tliey are hot, and put the two under sides of them together. N®. 10. SPICE BISCUITS. ■a. Take three pounds of flour; and three pounds of sweet almonds cut in half, and put them with the flour and three ounces of spice, such as cinnamon and mace pounded, and one pound of powdered sugar, and mix them altoge- ther on your dresser, then take three pounds of Lisbon sugar, and put it in a saucepan with some water and just boil it, and then mix it with the rest of the ingredients on the dresser, and when it is all mixed to a paste, heat your oven very hot, and put three papers next your plate, then roll your paste to the size of a large rolling pin ; then put it on your14 THE COMPLE' paper, and fiat it down wit about three inches wide, b the middle than at the en them in the oven, and wl baked take them out wh them with a sharp knife, eighth part of an inch thick of a rusk, and you will see look very well cut in them. N®. 11. TOAD-IN-A-IIOLE •<T ,.a>» Take one pound of swe< ounce and a half of bitter’d pound them in a mortar v< water, then one pound and Lisbon sugar, and mix it ve the almonds: do not mak< and remember there are no then put one sheet of pap wire, and some wafer paj then take a spoon and ma'15 CONFECTIONER. cuits round on the wafer paper, about the size of a half-crown piece; then put one or two dried cherries in the middle of them; and sift some powdered sugar over them, and put them in the oven, which must have a moderate heat, and when they come out, cut the wafer paper round them, but leave the paper at the bottom of them. N®. 12. MILLEFRUIT BISCUITS. •g=-=T-, > Take a quarter of a pound of pre- served orange peel and cut it in pieces about half an inch long, and not quite a quarter wide; then take six ounces of angelico, cut it the same way, and a quarter of a pound of preserved lemon peel, and six ounces of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds, and let all these be cut the same way as the orange peel, and put some whites of eggs, sugar, and16 THE COMPL] orange flower water in a make an iceing; then put it, and paper your plat< papers, and make them chuse, then take a litt] touch them here and there cochineal colour, it will ma well; let your oven not be just to dry the iceing, as it gether well, let them be col take them off, and they w piece of a rock, &c. N®. 13. MASAPAN BI! ■<!===:»> Take one pound of swi and pound them ver} fine, you can scarce feel the leas may use water to them; tl pound of pow’dered sugar, almonds and sugar in a dec and have a clear charcoal :CONFECTIONER. 17 fierce; stir them’ together over the fire with a wooden spoon, till the paste leaves the pan and keeps itself together, but keep stirring it all the time, and be careful that it does not burn to the pan; put it on a dresser with a little flour under it, and work it up well with your hands till it hangs well together; then roll small pieces of it about three inches long and about half the thickness of your little finger, join the ends of them, and make them in round rings; put them on the back of a wooden sieve, and put them in a stove or any dry place where there is some warmth to come to them, let them stay two or three days till they are quite hard, and when you want to bake them, take about eight w^hites of eggs, and put in a bason, mix some powdered sugar with them, and with a w^ooden spoon in each hand beat it w'ell; put a cup full of ■ A 918 THE COMPLI orange flower water in il add more powdered sugar is occasion, to make it a ness, and beat it about an hour till vou see it rise \ take a wire and put in this iceing in the base them out and turn them with your finger on this win iceing run through this \ other bason until you sei quite through, then lay tl paper on the plate, let very slow, and put them i the iceing is set and thi change colour, then take 1 let them stand till they ar you take them off. N“* 14. JUDGES BIS •a==j)* Xaxe six eggs and brez a copper pan, yolks andCONFECTIONER. 19 ther, whisk them well for about five mi- nutes, mix half a pound of powdered sugar with the eggs, and whisk them for ten minutes, put as many carraway seeds as you think proper, and half a pound of sifted flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon, and put three papers on your plates; then take a spoon and drop them on papers about the size of a crown piece, sift some powdered sugar over them, let them be rather thick in the middle, and the oven rather sharp, and when they come out, cut them off the paper while hot. N®. 15. QUEEN CAKES. •d===p< Take one pound of the best butter, and rub it well with your hand in the preserving pan until it is as fine as cream, then take twelve eggs, yolks and whites together and wliisk them well in20 THE COMPLI another pan over a gentle f do not burn, for they will carej take twelve ounces sugar, and put with' the whisking them for three the eggs and the sugar again and whisk them, ai it does not burn at bottoi pretty warm take it off i till it is cold, then mix your handj take one poi flour, and twelve ounce well picked and washed, r with the rest, butter your t put them on your plate, ' four papers under them, y( be quick, but if you fir for the top, put a sheet them to keep them from ICONFECTIONER. 21 N°. 16. YARMOUTH BISCUITS. «t====^ Take six ounces of currants, wash and pick them very clean, dry them well, rub a little flour among them to make them white, and put half a pound of powdered sugar with the currants up- on a clean dresser j add twelve ounces of flour sifted, and half a pound of the best fresh butter you can get; break three eggs, and mix all the ingredients to- gether to become a paste, that you can roll it on the dresser, the thickness of an eighth part of an inch, and then cut them out either round or what shape you fancy, N. B. Your oven must be rather hot, and put two or three sheets of paper under them, do not bake them too much, only just make, them brown.THE COMPLl X®. 17. KINGS BIS •<I==^ Take half a pound ol work it about in a bason w spoon, then take six egg them well; put half a poi dered sugar in them and about ten minutes j mix sugar with the butter, tV ounces of currants well was them with the eggs, and s flour and mix it well alt< three sheets of paper on th a tea-spoon and drop the paper about the size of a them in a sharp oven, and while they are hot. N°. 18. CHOCOLATE B! 4===^ Take a quarter of a poi colate, and put'it on a tin.CONFECTIONER 23 to make it warm, then put a pound of powdered sugar in a bason, and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with about eight whites of eggs, if you find it too thin, mi!x more powdered sugar with it just to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll it in lumps as big as walnuts: let your oven be moderate, put three papers under them, let the oven just raise them and make them crisp and firm, and let them be quite cold before you take them off the pa- per. N®. 19. ITALIAN WATER BISCUITS. >ls==]> Take six eggs and break them, put the yolks and whites in a copper pan with the weight of the six eggs of powdered sugar, whisk them well for half an hour: take six more eggs and24 THE COMPLE the weight of them of mix it with them, cut a pi about Ahe size of the tof breakfast cup, but not the eighth of an inch, of a round ring, with a j ing from it to hold by take a table spoonful of th with a large knife spre; thickness of the wood un filled up ; lay your knife close to the wood, and lift and you will see your cak per: put as many of them as you can without touchir let your oven be very hot be baked in five minutes, they do not burn at botton are done let them stand quite cold, then wet the ot paper and they will cor25 CONFECTIONER. put them into the oven afterwards, to dry crisp. N°. 20. W'ATER CAKES WITH CARRA- WAY SEEDS. •0. ==r.— Take three pounds of powdered sugar and four pounds of sifted flour, 'mix the flour and sugar together on a clean dresser with half water and half whites of eggs, and as many carraway seeds as you think proper, mix all together so as to make it a very fine paste, that you can roll it on the dresser and the thinner the better, cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter; round and scolloped is the general fashion, but vary the shape to your own fiancy, roll them very thin and they will be the crisper, for if they are not crisp they are not worth eating; put them on a sheet of paper and rather a slow oven, and if you think' it too hot, put as many c2.6 THE COMPL sheets of paper as you th vent them from being bur very little so as just to cha of them, and butter that s you put them on that th( off easily. N®. 21. FRENCH I ■d Take a clean copper p: into it as many eggs as make the u'eight of a p white in this ingredient, tc and a half of powdered j in with the yolks of eggs w’’ooden spoon stir them gether about ten minutes handfuls of carraway sec pounds of flour and mix roll your paste on a cle a roll about fourteen inc the thickness of a largeCONFECTIONER. paper your plate with three sheets of paper besides the sheets your paste is on, lay the paste in a long roll on the paper, and flat it down with your hand, let it be about one inch high in the middle of the paste, and flat it down towards the edges, rather to a point, and after they are baked, wet the pa- per that they may come off whilst they are warm, and be careful not to bake them too .much, or they will not cut without breaking, then with a sharp knife, cut them about* a quarter of an inch thick, in the form of a rusk, and lay them flat on the wire, and put them into the oven so as to rnake them crisp and dry, and they are done. N°. 22. FINE SWEETMEAT GINGER- BREAD NUTS. - -"IW Take two pounds of the best trea- cle and put it in a large bason ; then28 THE COMPLE take half a pound of th butter, and carefully mel oil, pour the butter to and stir it well as you pou three quarters of an ounce pounded ginger, and put two ounces of preserved orange peel cut very smj ounces of preserved angeli cut very small j and one o riander seed pounded, an and a half/of carraway ; mix them well together; two eggs, yolks and whil and mix as much flour as to a fine paste ; make th you choose, put them on plate, and let your ovc, brisk.29 CONFECTIONER. c 3 N®. 23. TURTULONGS, FINE, FOR BREAKFAST. JTake a quarter of a pound of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, one pound and a half of flour, six <?ggs, yolks and whites together, and a very little salt, and mix them altogether on your dresser, and haye a preserving pan on the fire, with clean boiling water in it, roll your batter out about four inches long, and almost as thick as your little finger, join it in two round rings the two ends of them, and put them in this boiling water, not too many at a time, then on the other side, have a bason wdth cold water, and as the bis- cuits swim on the top of the boiling water, take them out, put them in the cold water, and let them lie all night j take them out next morning and put tliem into a sieve, and drain all theTHE COMPLEI 30 water from them ; put th( plate, without any paper i let your oven be very hot, them, and you will see the much, the more they rise see they are not burnt, b be of a fine brown, and the out. N®. 24. FINE SHREW'SBUI ■gar;— ■■r.-D- Take a pound of butter in a little flat pan, rub it fine as cream ; then take o powdered sugar, a little ci: mace pounded, and four and whites together : beat your' hand till it is very take one pound and a hi flour, work it together, ai your dresser, to what size y< very flat, let your oven beCONFECTIONER. 31 c 4 and let them change their colour^ then take them out. N°. 25. LEMON BISCUITS. 4.===I> Xake one pound of sweet almonds^ and pound them very fine in a mortar, and whites of eggs with them, be care- ful to temper them properly, to pre- vent the almonds from turning to oil, and pound them to a very fine paste ; put in three pounds of powdered sugar, and mix it well; take ten lemons, rasp the rinds of them very fine, and mix it with the almonds and sugar; when they are all well mixed, take a knife, and a small piece of board in your hand, and try to drop off the paste on a sheet of paper, about half the size of a nutmeg, and round, put them at a convenient distance from each other, and put them in the oven,32 THE COMPLE^ which if you find too hot, ] four sheets of paper, or n tom, as occasion shall rec your biscuits, to prevent 1 ing, when they come out c let them stand till they are and they will come off the easily. N*. 26, THE WAY TO ALMONDS. . For all biscuits that are almonds, the almonds mus blanched, and for every thi cept it is particularly menti contrary, and the quickest \vi ing them, is this; viz. put a j on the 6re and let it boil, t almonds in for about te drain the water from then on a dresser and rub then you can with both your hand you think they are almosCONFECTIONER. 53 take a butcher’s tray and put them In, and holding each end of the tray fan them up and down till you see almost all the skins are gone over, then lay them on the dresser again, and those that are not blanched do them with your fingers, and fan them again ; and when they arc done keep them very dry or else they will get sour. N°. 27. FRENCH MACCAROONS. Take one pound of sweet almonds and pound them very fine in a mortar, < with whites of eggs, and be careful they do not oil; then take three pounds of powdered sugar and mix with the al- monds and whites of eggs to a fine thickness, so as to come off the spoon well; then put three sheets of paper on your plate, and with a table spoon drop them off at a little distance from each € 534 THE COMPLE': other so as not to touch, pu ther a brisk oven, but mind burn, bake them of a ver) colour and crisp; then let till they are cold, before yo off, but if they are burnt they will not come off at you must be very careful ol N°. 28. ENGLISH MACCAR MONLY CALLED COI\ •<t===^ Take one pound of swe and pound them in a mortj of water, and the rest wh according to the pounding too wet nor too dry, but y pound these almonds quite the French maccaroons; t pound of the best Lisbor mix it well with your air take a wire, and lay one sliCONFECTIONER. 35 on the wire, take some sheets of wafer paper, join them, and lay them on the paper that is on the wire, put your paste in a bason, take a table spoonful of the paste, and drop it off the spoon ; sift some powdered sugar, over them ; let your oven be pretty quick, but do not bake them much, only till the tops are of a fine brown, for these biscuits must be rather moist when eaten ; when they are done, take them out; and cut the wafer paper off round them, but mind and leave the water paper at bottom of them, and round the sides of them. I N®. 29. RATAFIA BISCUITS. i AKE half a pound of sweet almonds, and half a pound of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar very fine, with whites of eggs j put three pounds of powdered su^ar, mix it well with c 6THE COMPLE' 36 the whites of eggs, to the p ness into a bason ; put t\ sheets of paper, on the pla on; take your knife, and made of wood, and drop i paper, let them be round, ai size of a large nutmeg; put oven, which must be quic have a fine brown, and a be careful they are not burr else they will not come o when baked; let them be you take them off. 30. ORANGE BISC Take one pound of swe pound them in a mortar ve whites of eggs; take ten Ch rasp the rind off them vei put it with the almonds; pounds of powdered sugar37 CONFECTIONER. •well, if you find it too thick, put more whites of eggs to it and mix it well; then put two or three sheets of paper under, beside that you have put them on: let your oven have a moderate heat; drop little round pieces of paste on your paper, about half as big as a nutmeg, and put them in the oven: let them have a fine brown, and take them off when cold. N®. 31. FILBERT BISCUITS. ■q ■ ■ — =a> Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in a mortar to break the shells, pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mix whites of eggs with them j take care they'do not oil; mix three pounds of powdered sugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs to a proper thick- ness, let your oven have a moderateTHE COMPLE 58 heat, then with the spadd drop small pieces, the sarr orange and lemon biscuits; or three sheets of paper let them be a fine brown, and let them be cold bef them off the paper. N®. 32' PISTACHIO NUT •<1===^ Take half a pound of p: and blanch them, pound th tar very fine j mix whites one pound of powdered s son, break sixteen eggs, whites of them in a coppe them very strong, fit to be them, put the yolks with t pastachio nuts, beat them spoon in each hand, mi; yolks and pistachio nuts, w: very lightly, then, put one39 CONFECTIONER. quarter of flour, as lightly as possible ; butter your spunge tins, and put the paste in : sift some powdered sugar over them , before you put them in the oven, let the heat be moderate, and put three papery under the tins : do not let your biscuits be burnt, but of a fine colour, and take them out of the tins while they are hot. N°. 33. ORANGE FLOWER BISCUITS. •<U==4>> ’^Fake powdered sugar, what quantity you choose, and put as much white of eggs, as will make the sugar of a tliick paste; pick some orange flowers, and mix as many as you like, in pro- portion to your quantity of sugar, and whites of eggs, in a bason, so as to be thick enough to roll in little lumps, about the size of a walnut; let your oven be rather slack or moderate; put three papers between them and the tin /40 T.HE COMPLE plate, put them in the ov rise to a very light-brow take them off when coId» N°. 34. FINE ALMOND •d==.!>' Cut some sweet almonc >put them and some whites bason together; put a litt sugar, to make the almor gether, mix them well to bason ; put some wafer pa wire, make the almonds heaps with your fingers, a please; sift a little pow over them, before you' put oven ; let them be a little then take them out, and c paper off round them, th; and leave the wafer paper tom of them.CONFECTIONER. 41 N®."^. FINE GINGER CAKES. •<t===]> . Fake four pounds of flour, and put on your dresser j then take a copper saucepan, and break six eggs, and mix them well with a spoon j put one pint of cream in them, and beat them well, put the saucepan over the fire, and stir it till it isjusfw'arm; put two pounds of but- ter into the cream and eggs j and one pound of powdered sugar, and stir it over a very slow fire, just to melt all the butter j put in four ounces of pounded ginger, and when all the butter is melted,^pour it all into the middle of the flour, mix it as w'ell as you can, and when you have made it a fine paste, roll it out with flour under it, on your dresser, cut them to the size of the top of a breakfast cup, and a quarter of an inch thick j put three papers under them, before youTHE COMPLl 42 put them in the oven, v very hot. N. B. These are very stomach in cold weather. N“. 36. FRESH APRICO -a=r=r, /• Take some of the ri] and put them in an ear copper pot; fill the pot i round the jar, cover the close, put it over the fire, mer for four or five ho\ take the apricots, cut an a sieve till next mornii through the sieve with ) every two pounds of jam,]: of powdered sugar, and 1: gether with two spoons into it eight whites of egg very strong, and mix then fill your paper moulds.43 CONFECTIONER. in the hot stove, and do the same as you will see in the receipt of the barberry biscuits, and put them in a dry box. N“. 37. FRESH BARBERRY BISCUITS. f P 1 AKE your barberries, and put them in the oven j pass them through a sieve, and allow to every two pounds of bar- berries, five pounds of powdered sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix the sugar with the barberries j break four eggs, put the whites in a copper pan, and whisk them very strong, mixing them with the jam ; glaze some thick white paper, cut it in small pieces, and make them in small square boxes, commonly / called coflins i put the jam in as smooth as possible, and put them in a sieve; then put them in your stove, and let them be in six or eight days; when they are dry, tear the paper off them, put44* THE COMPL] them in your papered them dry. N“. 38. FRESH DAMSON REFINED CHEE Take some fine damsc .them in a brown earthen p in the oven, and let the find that all the skins v and that the damsons are through; then take them stone them, pass them th W’ith a spoon; put five pc dered sugar to every two p add five whites of esres strong, mix them well will sugar; put them in paper i do the barberry biscuits; 1 the stove five or six days, v the paper off, and put thei box,CONTECTIONER. 4-5 / N®. 39. A SMALL FINE ALMOND CAKE. Take six ounces of powdered sugar, and put it into a bason ; then take five eggs, and put the yolks with the sugar ; and six ounces of almonds, half bitter, and half sweet, pound the almonds very fine in a mortar with the white of an egg or two, put them in with the yolks and sugar,beat them well with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites very strong in the copper pan, mix the yolks and the rest with the whites, as light as possible, and take two ounces of flour, sifted very fine, and mix it with the rest: paper the heap that'you mean to bake it in, with three papers double on the inside of the heap, and four at bottom; let your oven be very brisk, and before you put it in, sift a little powdered sugar over the top of it, if you find after it has been in theTHE COMPLE 46 oven a little time, that it i it on the top, put one or I paper on the top of the c vent its scorching. Th( take above half an hour bi oven is proper for them. N®. 40. A LARGE RICH 1 CAKE. •0=1:=^ l>- Take a large fiat coppc pan ; then take four pounc fresh butter and rub the fine; take another large co break fifty-four eggs, wh ten minutes j put four poi ■dered sugar, and whisk 1 sugar together over the fire it pretty warm, take it off, till cold, mix it well withth your hand, and put in an o and Qnnamon pounded, an of brandy: cut two poundsCONFECTIONER. 47 orange peel, and citron, and one pound of sweet almonds ; take five pounds and three quarters of flour, and sift it, put in half of it, then take four pounds of clean currants and put in. N. B. When you have put half your flour in, then add a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, pounded with a little powdered sugar, just to keep them from oiling, put the rest of the flour in, and paper your large heap, putting four sheets withinside, and at bottom, and let your oven be very brisk. N*. 41. A SMALL RICH SEED CAKE. •0==^ Break fourteen eggs into a copper pan, whisk them ten minutes; then take one pound of butter, and rub it well with your hand to a cream; put one pound of pawdered sugar to the eggs, #^nd whisk them over the fire three mi-48 THE COMPLE nutes, then whisk them till afterwards mix them wit] with your hand as light as > • two or three handfuls of ca in, and some sweet almor a little cinnamon and ma pound and a quarter of f as you can with your han papers inside your heap or five at bottom, and let rather brisk; when you'fii has risen, and the oven t( top, cover it with a sheet ( it will be done in about a; half, or two hours at farth« N“. 42. A SMALL RICH P •1==^D> Take one pound and s currants, wash and pick the then dry them, and rub with them,-to make thei4^ CONt-£CtlON£R. take orte pound of butter, and put it in- to a cdppef preserving pan, rub it with your hand quite to a cream ; take ano- ther pan, and break sixteen eggs, yolks and whites together, whisk them about ten minutes j take one pound of pow- dered sugar, put it in with the eggs, whisk them well over the fire, and be careful it does not burn at bottom; make the whisk go to the bottom, and when you feel they are warm, take it off; whisk them till they are quite cold ; be- fore you put them to the butter, mix them well with the butter with your hand, put the pound and six ounces of currants in with it j put in one pound and a quarter of flour, and mix it with the rest; add half a pound of citron and lemon and orange peel cut in it; and a handful of sweet almonds cut; and a handful of bitter almonds pound- ed with a little powdered sugar j half an ounce of cinnamon and mace pound- D50 THE COMPLI ed and a glass of brandy your hoop, put your cake and let it be of a* regular h N®. 43. LEMON WA •a .--n ^Iake six lemons, and : an earthen pan ; pound a double refined sugar and the lemon juice ; put one egg in with it, and mix it gether with your woodei make it of a fine thickness sheets of wafer paper, and ] of it on a pewter sheet, or t a spoonful on, and cover wafer paper all over with cut it in twelve pieces, an across a stick in your hot sto side the paste is on upperm will find they will curl 5 wl: half curled, take them off v51 CONFECTIONER. D 2 and put them up endways in a sieve, that they may stand up; let them be in the hot stove one day, and you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. N®. 44. BARBERRY WAFERS. •i; m Barberry wafers are made the same way as your lemon wafers, only when you have made as many lemon wafers as you want, mix a little cochineal with the rest of the paste, to make it of a fine pink colour, and if it should be too thin, put a little powdered sugar with it, and dry them the same way as the lemons.52 THE COMPLE N“. 45. ORANGE \VJ «(U==ss=f> Take six China oranges, rind of them very fine, < halves, and squeeze them pan; take three lemons, them in with the orange j rind; add some powderec through a lawn sieve, ar the same thickness as yoi lemon w'afers, and dry th way with wafer paper. N?. 46. bergamot \ •<i=-T=T— Squeeze six lemons intc mix with them some d< powdered sugar sifted th sieve, so as to make it thickness as your lemon some essence of bergamoCONFECTIONER. 55 D 3 well with one white of an egg ; beat it till you see it is very white ; if you find it grow too thick, squeeze one more lemon in, and mind you do not make it too strong of the essence of bergamot, for if you do, it will become bitter, and not pleasant to taste ; then do them the same way as your lemon wafers. N®. 47. VIOLET WAFERS. •!==:===]> Take six lemons, and squeeze them into a little pan; add some fine pow- dered sugar sifted through a lawn sieve, and mix it with the juice, till it is as thick as your I *mon wafers j put some essence of violets, be careful to get your essence very strong j put a little blue colour, so as to make it a very fine colour ; if you find it too thin, put a little more sugar into it, then spread it on the wafer paper, as your lemon wafers,54 THE COMPLE N®. 48. PEPPERMINT '' r*AKE six lemons, and sq into a little pan; add some vt and one white of an egg, very well, so as to make it put some of the strongest o mint into it, so as to ma enough to your palate, tl: the same as your lemon wa N®. 49. BERGAMOT : .<!==]> Pound and sift some sug squeeze four or five lemo the juice and the sugar t( a wooden spoon; drop al drops of essence of berga and mix it well with your j over the fire three or four rr them off your knife about tlCONFECTIONER. 55 D 4 orange and lemon drops, and mate them as round as you can, let them stand till cold, and they will come off well j they must be dropt on writing paper, ✓ N®. 50. BLACK CURRANT DROPS. <<t I,.— -. Oet half a sieve of black currants, and’ put them in a pan; mash them with’ your spaddle, and put them over the fire ; bring them just to a' boil and pass them through a sieve over an earthen pan, put what jelly comes from them in an earthen pipkin, and put it over the fire and let it boil for two hours, stir it all the time at bottom with your spaddle, or else it will burn; put in two pounds and a half of powdered sugar, mix it with the jam and stir it over the fire half an hour, drop it on pewter sheets or plates, in little drops from your knife, and put them in yourTHE COMPLI 56 hot stove, let them be tl find that they are quite d take them off with your ki N*. 51. CHOCOLATE Take one pound and a I late, put it on your pewter 5 and put it in the oven just chocolate 5 then put it ir stewpan, with three quartc of powdered sugar, mix it fire, take it off, and roll it size of small marbles, put t paper, and when they ar€ the sheet of paper by eael lift it up and down, so t may touch the table each that means you will see th quite flat, about the size c put some sugar nonparei and cover all that is on tVCONFECTIONER. 57 then shake them off, and you will see. all the chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpareils; let them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put them’in your box papered. N°. 52. DAMSON DROPS. .Put some damsons in the oven to hake but not so much as to break, then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve; sift some common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix with them, make it very thick, drop them off your knife on paper, put them in your stove to dry: when they are quite dry, turn them on a sieve, and w^et the outside of the paper, and they will come off easily; put them into the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them by in your papered box.THE COMPLE 58 N*. 53. SEVILLE ORANC <U===^ This is the same sort of p Seville orange paste" cake of, only drop them off yo your plate, then put them stove, and when they are fi off with a knife, turn them on a sieve, and put them again for a day ; then pap( and put them in. N®. 54. LEMON DI Squeeze the juice of six a brown pan or bason, tak ble refined sugar, pound through a very fine lawn si with the lemon juice and thick that you can hardly s into a copper stew pan, wi spoon stir it over the fire f59 CONFECTIONER. then take it off and drop them off the point of a knife, of the same size with the orange drops, and let them stand till cold, and they wdll come off the paper. A". B. If you wait for their cooling, put them out in some cold place : they must be dropt on writing paper. N°. 55. ORANGE DROPS. Rasp six China oranges very fine, squeeze them in a small pan or bason with the rind; squeeze two lemons with them, without rasping the rind, sift some powdered sugar and mix with the juice, make it of a fine thickness, put it over the fire in a small stew pan, and wdth a wooden spoon turn it for five minutes, then take it off the fire, and drop them off the point of a knife, as round as you can upon white paper, about the size of a silver two pence j let D 6THE COMPLE^ 60 them stand till they are co’ will come olFi then put tt box. N*. 56. PEPPERMINT Squeeze three or four le bason, and mix some pow with the juice, the sugar m through a lawn sieve: m proper thickness, and pi of peppermint in with it, you think proper to your p< it of a proper thickness wit it in a saucepan and dry it c stirring it with a wooden s\ minutes, then drop them o your writing paper, the sam last receipt mentions, and le till they are cold, and the; ofFeasiiy, then put them in 5 box.61 CONFECTIONER. N®. 57. VIOLET DROPS. Squeeze six lemons, mix with them some powdered sugar sifted very fine ; put into it two large spoonfuls of es- sence of violets and some blue colour, just enough to make it of a fine blue, viz. a little Prussian blue, pounded and mixed with a little gum water j mix all well together, and dry it over the fire, the same as the others, and drop them off a knife on paper the size of the others j let them stand till cold, do not make it too thin, beTore you put it over the fire to dry 5 when they are cold, put them in your papered box. N°. 58. BARLEY SUGAR DROPS. ; .> These are made the same way as we make the barley sugar, only when62 THE COMPL boiled put the rind of one c in rasped, and drop the marble in little round < as a shilling; let them st; then put them up in pa you take them off the marl powdered sugar at the sic put them in. N*. 59. LEMON PR A' •a===2>* Take some lemons, and off in four quarters; take off from the inside of tl the yellow rind in pieces inch long and about the 1 an, inch wide ; have a p syrup- on the fire, and let comes almost to carimel, prawlongs in, and stir thei with a large wooden spoor cold; put them in a larg63. CONFECTIONER. shake them just to let the sugar that does not stick to them go through the sieve ; lastly put them in your box, and keep them in a dry place. N*.'60. ORANGE PRAWLONGS. T. —» Take China oranges, and peel the rind off in four quarters; take all the white off from the inside of the rind 5 cut the yellow rind in pieces about one inch long, and about the tenth part of an inch wide; have a pan of boiling syrup on the fire,' and let it boil till it comes almost to a carimel; put the prawlongs in, and stir them very much with a large wooden spoon till they are cold; then put them in a large sieve, and shake them, just to let the sugar that does not stick to them go through the sieve; put them in your box, and keeplhem in a dry place.THE COMPLI 64 N®. 61. PISTACHIO PR AW 4i===2> Take some pistachio ]< have a preserving pan on syrup; boil it till it com carimel, put some cochi the nuts; and stir them j come off the fire break the them have two coats of su that they are of a fine col every thing according to of the burnt almonds. N®. 62. BURNT FILBERT RED. »<U . • Take some Barcelona nu them,' put the kernels in pan or sheet, and put t oven to roast; have a pai boiling, and let it boil t ahnost to carimel; put a lit in a cup, when the sugar i65 CONFECTIONER. it to it and the filberts, and stir them very much with a large wooden spoon, till you find the sugar is got hard round them; put them in a sieve, and separate them which stick together; have another pan, with syrup in, and boil it as before and as high; put the same quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before, because the second time you do them, the finer the colour will be, then put them in your box. N*. 63. ORANGE FLOWER PRAWLONGS. Xake orange flowers, pick the leaves asunder from each other, and see that they are quite dry; have a preserving pan with syrup on the fire and let it boil till it comes almost to carimel, then put your orange flowers in; stir them well with a large spoon, continue the stiring till they are cold, then put them in a66 THE COMPL sieve, and sift them, til] powder of the sugar all g them in your box, but do in a damp place. N*. 64. SEVILLE ORAN .<==========»• Take some Seville cut the rind of them as th and the breadth of a silvei and as round as you can ; sieve into your stove ; lei four or five hours; put so the fire, and let it boil a hour 5 put your jumbles and give them three or fou your syrup from them, pi sieve in a hot stove, let t two or three days, till tl dry, then put them in ) keep them dry.67 CONFECTIONER. N". 65. BURNT ALMONDS, RED. > Take some of the finest Jordan al- monds you can get, sift all the dust from them, have some syrup boiling in a pan, and let it boil till it comes almost to ca- rimel, put half a cup full of cochineal in j put the almonds in as fast as you can, and stir them till they are cold; then put them in your sieve and break those that stick together, from each other ; then have another pan of syrup boiling, the same as before, and when they are cold, pick them from each other, for they must always have the coats of sugar on them ; see that your cochineal is properly mixed, to make them of a fine colour, as you must put more cochineal in the last coat than you did in the first.€S THE COMPL N®. 66. BURNT ALMO Take some of the fine monels you can get, and s from them ; then have soi ing in a pan, and let it b' almost to carimel; put in and stir them till they them in your sieve, bre stick together, and ther pan of syrup boiling, the { and give them two co when done pick them fre N®. 67, PISTACHIO ] WHITE. •<t======s==T Take some pistachio have a preserving pan o syrup, and boil it till it c carimel j put in the nutj69 CONFECTIONER. they are all covered with sugar, and give them two coats, the same as burnt al- monds, white. N®. 68. BURNT FILBERTS, WHITE. ><==»• Take some Barcelona nuts and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan, or sheet, and put them in the oven- to roast: then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes al- most to carimel; put your filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, and give them two coats as the burnt almonds, white. N®. 69. MERINOS IN THE FORM OF EGGS. •«===> Take a half pint bason full of syrup, put it in a small stew pan, and boil k to what is called blow; then take the70 THE COMPLl whites of three eggs, put ther copper pan, and wh! strong; when your sugar it against the sides of the s a table spoon j when yoi gar change, and all white, the w’hites of eggs with it not quick your sugar wi powder; when you have light as possible; put in one lemon, stir it as lit ble; take a board aboi wide, and eighteen inch put one sheet of paper your table spoon drop yc the shape of half an egg pow^dered sugar over thei put them in the oven : h be of a moderate heat, wat< close, let them rise, and jus side be a little hard but no inside must be moist; taCONFECTIONER. 71 with a knife, and put about half a tea spoonful of rasberry or strawberry jam in the middle of them ; then put two of them together and they will be in the shape of an egg, but you must handle them very gently. N“. 70. ALMOND PASTE. ■<u — •=» Take half a pound of sweet and one dozen of bitter almonds, and pound them so very fine that you can hardly perceive the least piece of almond in it j use water to pound them with, but do not make them too wet, for if you do, it will be a long time before you can get them dry again; only just to keep them from oiling, take a small saucepan and a wooden spoon and put the paste in the saucepan, and half a pound of powdered sugar with it, mix it well together, be- fore you put it on a slow’fire, keep rub-72 THE COMPLI bing it about with your vt in the pan, and be ca^efu burn, which it will if you not touch the bottom of tli you find the paste does nc pan, and comes altogeth< done. N. B. Put a 1 your dresser, that it may nc N®. 71. ORGEAT <d,i Take two pounds of s\ ounce of bitter almonds, very fine with water; ha of syrup boiling, andlet i come to blow; mix the ah and* stir it over the fire t: very stiff,, stir it all the tiiu dl’e or else^ it will burn at b cold put it in’ your pots, £ der over the paper.73 CONFECTIONER. N®. 72. ORGEAT SYRUP. ■a^===:i)> Take eight ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, pound them very fine, that you cannot feel one piece of almond in it; mix one quart of water, wine measure, with it; strain it through a fine cloth j put in one gill of orange flower water, have two quarts of boiling syrup, and let it boil till it is almost carimel; mix what drains from the almonds with the syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it becomes a fine syrup; put it into your bottles whilst it is warm 5 the next day cork them, and put bladders over the corks. N". 73. LEMON SYRUP. Ta k e six lemons and rasp them very fine into a bason; squeeze the juice of Et 74 THE COMP! one dozen of lemons to mix it well together wit! one quart of fine syrup, pi pan and let it boil till it mel; while your syrup is your lemon juice and r fine seive; take care th; juice to the syrup before or you will have your s) then let it boil three or and observe that it is a fir done take it off; let it time, and put it in your warm; the next day co tie bladders over the corl K®. 74. ORANGE ’ •<!===> Take eight China orang very fine into a bason; dozen of China oranges ai to the rind; mix it all I75 CONFECTIONER. a spoon in the bason; drain all the juice through a fine lawn sieve; take one quart of fine syrup, and boil it till it is almost carimel; put the juice to the syrup, but mind you make it a fine syrup; put it into your bottles, cork and bladder them the next day. N°. 75. SEVILLE ORANGE SYRUP. Xake one Seville .orange, and rasp it very fine; squeeze eight Seville oranges and one lemon with the rind; mix it all well with the spoon; take one quart of fine syrup, and boil it till it is almost carimel; strain your juice through a fine sieve, and mix it well with your syrup, mind you make it a fine syrup ; put it in your bottles while a little warm; cork and bladder them the next day. E 2 f76 THE COMPLE'^ N“. 76. PINE APPLE «<1====3)< Dra IN the syrup from apple chips, when you are them that are preserved, as in your receipt of pine appL the syrup three or four tin it into your bottles while ^ and bladder them the next N®. 77. CAPILLAIRE Take two quarts of line boil it to blow; boil twi two gills and a half of o water, skimming it all the in your bottles, and cork it day; put pieces of blade corks, but mind that it is before you take it off.77 CONFPXTIONER. N®. 78. CURRANT JELLY, RED AND WHITE. ■a==JS>- PuT your currants into a preserving pan, mash them and put them over the fire; when they are all broke and just upon the boil, take your spaddle and put them in a hair sieve; let all the juice drain through a flannel bag till it is quite fine, if it is not fine enough the first and second time, put it through again; take as much sugar as you have got jelly, and let it boil almost to cari- mel, then put your jelly in, and let it boil ten minutes, skim it all the time; then take it off, mind it is a fine jelly, and put it in your glasses. N®. 79. RASBERRY JELLY, FOR ICES. •a —; Put your rasberries in *the preserving pan; wash them well with your spaddle, E 3THE COMPLE 78 ■j put them over the fire, : all the time they are on; v ready to boil take them i them through a hair siev' letting no seed go throug jelly into another pan, and lire, and let it boil twenty m you put the sugar in, stiri time, or else it will burn at fourteen ounces of sugar to of jelly,let it boil twenty mil it all the time, whe.n cole brown pan and pots; sift dered sugar over it; let : day and then cover it up: good to make ice cream w N®. 80. APPLE JELLY, T YOUR FRUIT, OR WHAT •<U==.S>< ' Take one dozen and a setings, pare and cut the79 CONFECTIONER. into a preserving pan, an-d take the cores from them; cover them with water, and let them boil quite to a marmalade; put them in a hair sieve, let them drain; have as much syrup in another pan, as. there comes jelly through the sieve, and let the syrup boil till it almost comes to carimel, put the jelly to the syrup, and let it boil ten minutes; then put it over your fruits, let it be hot. N®. 81. HARTSHORN JELLY, •a ; Boil half a pound of hartshorn shav- ings in a gallon of water, till one third of the water is boiled away, then strain it off and let it stand till it is cold, melt it again, put in a little bit of orange and lemon peel just to colour it, skim it well, and add half a pint of rhenish or white mountain wine, the juice of one lemon and a half, with half a pound of E 480 THE COMPL] fine sugar; taste it, and if i enough to your palate, ad< the whites of six eggs, wh and put them in; stir thes it boil a little, take it of much more lemon juice a it to your mind; pour f jelly bag, first putting in eggs, and it will run thi does not come clear the fi it into the bag again, anc clearer into your glasses; hang near a fire to keep tl till it all runs off; you ma the liquor will jelly, if wh fire, you.take out a little ii let it cool. N“. 82. CALVES FOO' < , =a> Boil two calves feet i water, till it comes to twcCONFECTIONER. 81 it off, and let It stand till cold, skimming off all the fat clean; take the jelly up clear from the sediment; put the jelly into a saucepan with a pint of mountain wine, half a pound of powdered sugar, and the juice of four large lemons; whisk six or eight whites of eggs; put them in a saucepan, and stir them well with the jelly till it boils; let it boil a few minutes; pour it into a large flan- nel bag, and it will run through ^pretty quick, pour it again till it runs clear; get a large china bowl ready with two lemon peels rasped as thin as^ possible ; let the jelly run into that bowl, and the peels give it both a fine amber colour, and also a fine flavour; lastly put it into ybur glasses.82 THE COMPL N°. 83. BLACK CURRi Put your black currant serving pan over the fire with your spaddle and j boil; take them off anc through a very fine sieve quarter of an hour to currant jelly put fourtet powdered sugar; boil tl nutes ; put it in your pots two'days before you cov put brandy papers over- th you tie the papers. N®. 84. TO MAKE B1 T[ AKE one pint of mill handful of picked isingl isinglass into the milk and the isinglass is melted; stn8^ CONFECTIONER. a sieve; pound four ounces of sweet, and six or seven bitter almonds very fine 5 put a little spice in your milk; when you boil it, mix your almonds with the milk to make it palatable; pass it through a sieve again, put it in your moulds, tlnd let it stand till it is cold. N®. 85. GOOSBERRY JELLY.- Take two quarts of green goosber- ries; and put to them two quarts of water; boil and mash them as they boil, until they are all to a mummy ; drain all the juice from them through a^ flannel bas:; when it is all drained, take as much more syrup, as there is jelly from the goosberries; boil the syrup to blow; put the goosberry jelly into it and boil it about a quarter of an hour, and mind. you make it a fine jelly. E 684 THE COMPU N®. 86. RASBERR' ■g, ii-= —y- Put the rasberries into per pan, stir them well at the pan with a large spadd feet long ; mash the rasbe as you can; put them ovc keep stirring them all the you find they are almost i take them off; have a la over another pan and pass through the sieve 5 the hai must be large enough to k of the rasberries through is no pieces of rasberries I over the fire and stir the spaddleJ let the rasberrie hour, stirring them well tom a^iey boil, to preve burning; put in fourtee powdered sugar to every•V' • CONFECTIONER. 85 berries ; take them off the fire; mix them well together and boil the sugar and the rasberries together half an hour; sift some powdered sugar over the tops of the pan before they are covered. N°. 87. APRICOT JAM. •«==» Get the ripest apricots you can, cut them to pieces and take the stones from them ; put them into a large copper preserving pan, and mash them as much as you can; put them over the fire to warm, mashing them all the time; pass them through a cullender and keep forcing them with a small pestle; when they are all broke put them over the fire and just let them boil for ten minutes, stirring them all the time ; then put fifteen ounces of powdered sugar to every pound of apricots; let them boll together half ah hour, stirring them all ^ . V ‘ \ € 9. THE COMPLE^ S6 the time with your spaddle not burn at bottom; when enough put it into brown ’ %old put some apple jel top of them, and brandy the jelly before you cover tl them stand two days bef( them by.. N®. 88. STRAWBERRY •c====> P icK the stalks from the s and put them into a large serving pan; mash them spaddle to break them as i can ; put them over the fire, quite hot, almost to boil: through a very fine cullend straw^berries you have past nutes, stirring them all the your spaddle; weigh your si and allow fifteen ounces cCONFECTIONER. • 87 sugar to every pound of strawberries ; put in the sugar and boil them together, stirring them from the bottom, (else they will burn) for half an hour ovei the fire; fill your pans ^rne' powd«r«d brfbnr "you put-them iwiU the next day put pa- pers over them. N®. 89. BARBERRY JAM, ■■ Pick your barberries from the stalks, and put them into an earthen pan, then into the oven to bake; when baked pass them through a sieve with a large wooden spoon, taking care there are no skins of the barberries in it j weigh the barberries, and to every two pounds of barberries allow two pounds and a half of powdered sugar; mix the sugar and the barberries together, and put it in your pans, covering it up; set88 THE COMPLI it in a dry place; but wh filled your pans with it, powdered sugar over the tc N® 90. PEACH jA Get the ripest peache« bruise them; put them in pan and let them boil; ma much, stirring them with ) when they are soft pass th< large sieve; pound some b with powdered sugar to ke oiling ; put half an ounce pound of jam; put the jam over the fire and boil then an hour; add ten ounces sugar to every pound of j: sugar and the jam togethe an hour, stirring it all the 1 bottom, else it will burn boiled enough, put it int(89 CONFECTIONER. pans, and when cold put some apple jelly over it, and brandy paper over that. N®. 91. BLACK PLUM JAM. •<u===> Get the ripest black muscle plums you can, cut them to pieces, stone them and put them into a large copper pan; bruise them as much as you can with your spaddle ; warm them over the fire till they are soft j pass them through a cullender with a pestle and get as much through as you can; boil it one hour, stirring it from the bottom all the time, or else it will burn; put six ounces of })owdered sugar to every pound of jam ; take it off the fire and mix it well, put it over the fire ten minutes, then take it olf and put it in brown pans sifting some powdered sugar over it.THE COMPLl 90 N®. 92. RASBERRY «g. i-i;,,, . -...-Ir Take one pound of rasl pound of powdered sugar, well together, with your some small pieces of tin r rings about the , size of piece, and about a quai deep, and have a piece o\ the ring to lay hold by; pewter sheet or plate, pi it and fill it with your over the top of it with yo a pin and pull it along a the ring and lift the ring u] will stick to the plate 3 1 your stove, and let them the next day; then take • your knife and turn them a sieve and let them be day, and when you find dried, put them into yourCONFECTIONER. 91 N“. 93. SEVILLE ORANGE PASTE CAKES. •a===p> Cut one dozen of Seville oranges into halves, and squeeze them into a brown pan j put the peels into a pan of water and let them boil until they are quite soft j take them out and scoop all the inside out of them; pound the peels in a mortar, then take one dozen and a half of large apples, pare and cut them into pieces into a preserving pan j add to them the juice of the oranges and water enough to cover the apples, and let them boil till they come to mar- malade j pass it through a sieve with a spoon, likewise pass the orange peels that are pounded through a sieve j mix the apples and oranges together j have as much syrup in another preserving pan as you have got jam j boil the sugar until it is nearly carimel j mix it with your jam, stirring them well together j92 THE COMPL put it over the fire ten m it all the time with yoi your heart tin moulds, or like, and place them or sheets or plates; fill th( paste, put them into a let them stand till you f will come off easily, an jam’s running ; take then them in a sieve and put t stove until they are quit them lay in your stove on N”. 94. MILLEFRUIT R •<I====D' First get a tin box ( and about eight or nin( and six wires made to g:( the tin box must be made at bottom than at top, hole at the bottom aboi common quart bottle cc you put any thing in p this hole; put a layer ofCONFECTIONER. 93 bottom and a layer of angelica knots ; put a wire between every layer to keep them hollow,- go on with layers of any thing you have got that is well dried and hard, have a pan of syrup and let it boil till it comes to blow, then pour it over them in the tin box and let it stand three hours in a very hot stove; then pull out the cork at bottom and put the box on one side for all the syrup to run out; let it stand half an hour in the stove, then take them out and you will find it wdll be candied all round them, then put them into your papered box. N°. 95. ROCK SUGAR OF ALL COLOURS. <(!=:==^ Take a pint of syrup, put it into a pan and boil it almost to carimel; have a white of an egg in a little pot and mix a little powdered sugar with it, make itTHE COMP 94 very thick with a tea sp syrup off the fire, put th into the boiling syrup; s much in the pan with a h a sieve papered, you mu about it or it will com pour it into your sieve, v be hard like a rock ; and to vary the colour, mix • fancy with your eggs an 96. BARLEY •<!=== Take a small stewj syrup into It and boil it carimel; rub a little but stone just to grease it stick; then take your s handle and let the syrup spout along the stone twist it (while it is hoi and let it stand till cold.CONFECTIONER. 95 N«. 97. THE WAY TO MAKE ALL SORTS OF CARRAWAY COMFITS. ■<1 ■■■■— ,, Take some fine carraway seeds, sift » all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserving pan about two feet wide and with two handles, and two pieces of iron made as a ring on each side, then you must have a pulley fixed to the beam and a cord with a hook to each end so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let the pan sling; then have some fine starch as white as you can get and just soften it, boil some syrup a quarter of an hour and mix it with the starch ; take some gum arabic, put it into some water, then put that into ano- ther pan and make it just warm ; have an iron pot wdth charcoal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only just to keep the pan warm; have a large tub to put your pot of fire at bottom andTHE COMPL 96 your large pan must be o the carraway seeds into ] a large ladleful of gur them with your hands they are all dry; then p of starch, and syrup an over your pan of fire unti are all dry; put the gc or four times to them at starch and sugar, but b more as you find they con it and %nol so much star have' dried them seven put them into your sieve ; the stove, do them the ] so for six or seven days si N°. 98. CARDAMOM Get your cardamoms mists, and they will be i: them into your oven ju97 CONFECTIONER. skins, and they will break; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into your large comfit pan and have a fire under the same as for others ;* mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and do them the same about the pan with your hands. N®. 99. CAR I MEL CROCOXT. Take your copper crocont top and butter it all over, then have son;^ syrup boiling in a stew pan; let it boil*until it comes to carim,^, take the pan off, dip a three pronged fork into the syrup or from the spout of the pan; and you will see strings hang to the fork; move the fork to and fro over the crocont un- til you quite cover it thick, have your little dish of sweetmeats under, take this crocont off the mould, and when cold put it over the sweetmeats and handle it very lightly. FTHE COMPl 98 N®. 100. WHIP, FOR Kt-rsTT..- —.D Take one pint of ere a freezing pot, put the ] ice in an ice-pail, and vvl with a whisk; mix your of an orange in another \ juice of an orange and si to your palate ; put youi mix it, then pour all the dish that your trifle is to the froth of the cream ov what your fancy likes to g add different coloured su and some small biscuit sorts. N®. 101. EVERLASTING ^ TO PUT INTO GL Iake five half pints o f^alf a pint of RhenishCONFECTIONER. 9.9 F 2 pint of sack, and the juice of two large Seville oranges ; rasp in the yellow rind of three lemons, and a pound of double refined sugar well pounded and sifted; mix altogether with a spoonful of orange flower water, beat it well together with a whisk half an hour, then with a spoon fill your glasses. This will keep above a week, it is much the better for being made the day before it is'used. N®. 102. FLOATING ISLAND ; A PRETTY DISH FOR THE MIDDLE OF A TABLE, AT A SECOND COURSE, OR FOR A SUPPER. Take a soup dish according to the size and quantity you would wish to* f, make, but a deep glass dish is the best, 'put it on a china dish; first take a quart of the thickest cream you can get, make it sweet with fine powdered sugar j pour in a gill of fine mountain and rasp100 THE COMPL the yellow rind of a lem your cream very strong as you can ; pour the t froth into a dish; take son cuits and cut them as thi lay a layer of them as lie on the cream, then a la} jelly, again, a layer of N over that put your ere; saved; put as much as ] the dish hold, without r garnish the outside with sv what else you like* N°. 103. ICEING FOR A •<!===»• T. AKE six whites of gcrc Oc them very strong ; then h; syrup in a small stewpan, ; rup boil until it comes to 1 your skimmer; work it j with a spoon, when it is alCONFECTIONER. 101 F 3 a great deal thicker, mix the whites of eggs together, make it very thick, put it over your cakes and put them into your stove; let them dry, then put another coat over them; make it as smooth as you possibly can and let it dry in your stove. N°. 104. TO CLARIFY SUGAR FOR SWEETMEATS. < Take a large deep copper pan and break two eggs into it, then whisk it as you pour the pan half full of clear water, so as to make it like soap suds; put two large loaves of sugar into it, and put it over the fire ; take a large skim- mer, stir it till it is all melted, if you stir it longer your syrup will not be clear; be careful it does not boil over into the fire, for it is dangerous, as it may set the house on fire ; when you find it begins102 THE COMP to boil and the scum rise; fire, but do not stir it t half an hour; then you all the scum will come t a large skimmer and tal put it on the fire, let it 1 nutes, skimming it all tli through a flannel bag- ^ it into a pan or a large st< it as you want it to your N®. 105. CEDRAT •<U—.v;;.. O E T the Cedraties warehouses, rasp the ri: round very fine j put it i ble mortar, and allow f( ot a pound, two pounc sugar; mix it well with till you find it is all o that the rind is well into a stone jar, and squ1Q3 CONFECTIONER. F 4 hard as you can; put a bladder over the paper you cover it with, and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in one month it will be fit to use, N®. 106. LEMON ESSENCE. ‘ ><!===:>• Ix A s p your lemons all round very thin, and allow for every quarter of a pound of rind one pound of sugar; mix it the very same way you do the essence of cedraties, put it into a stone jar, and bladder it up the same. N®. 107. ORANGE ESSENCE. •tr ' ' -..D’ Take one dozen and a half of China oranges, rasp them all round and squeeze six of them in with the rind j mix it well in a bason, let three pints of syrup boil about twenty minutes; mix the orange rind and juice, and just give104 THE COM PL it a boil or two, and whei bottles and cork it up. N®. 108. LEMor r^ASP two lemons anc put to them three, gills of rest water j taste it, and your palate, alter and me right j then strain it thi sieve, and put it in your g N“. 109. ORANGI •€===»< Take eight China orai four of themj squeeze 1 three lemons to the rin two gills of syrup into i water j taste it, and if y( rich enough put some sj squeeze more oranges in your palate; and if notCONFECTIONER. 105 F 5 squeeze in one more lemon; strain it through a lawn sieve, and it is fit for use. N®. 110. CURRANT WATER MADE OF JELLY. •q ■: =» Take two large spoonfuls of currant jelly, and mix it with a little warm water, then put one gill of syrup, squeeze tw’O or three lemons in and let the rest be water; taste and make it to your palate, putting a little cochineal in to make it of a fine colour; strain it through a sieve, and it is fit for use. N®. 111. FRESH CURRANT WATER'. •<!===}>■ Take a quart of fresh currants and squeeze them through a sieve with your hand; put two large wooden spoonfuls of powdered sugar and one lemon in, and the rest water; make it to your106 THE COMPl palate; strain it through is fit for use. N®. 112. CEDRATI •<!== Take a large woode the essence of cedraty, p squeeze three lemons a( syrup and all the rest Wc your palate, mind that is melted; and if it is n put more syrup in; p your lawn sieve, and it i N®. 113. RASBERRY RASBERRY J ■■ Fake two large spoc put it into a bason; squ< in, and let the rest be little cochineal to coloi little syrup to make it pj107 CONFECTIONER. F 6 through your sieve, and be careful all the seeds are clean out, it is then fit for use. N®. 114. FRESH RASBERRY WATER. •<!==>• Take one pint of fresh rasberries; and pass them through a sieve with a wooden spoon; put two large spoon- fuls of powdered sugar in, squeeze one lemon in, and let the rest be water; make it palatable, and put a little co- chineal in to colour it; pass it through a sieve, and it is fit for use. N®. 115. BERGAMOT WATER. 4===!)< Squeeze six lemons and to that add three gills of syrup, and let the rest be water; mind you make it rich before you put the essence in ; when it is to your taste, put a tea-spoonful of essenceTHE COMPL 108 of bergamot in ; pass it tl and it is fit for use. N°. 1 ] 6. APRICOT •a===>' Take two large spoonf jam, and one gill of sy four lemons, put a haiK almonds pounded and a li sugar in the jam, so as to the same bitter taste as t the apricots; let the rest 1 make it palatable, pass very fine lawn sieve, and i K®. 117. STRAWBERRY STRAWBERRY J ■«===X>* Take two large spoonf berry jam, squeeze three add one gill of syrup and 1 i109 CONFECTIONER. to make it palatable; pass it through a lawn sieve, and it is fit for use. N°. 118. FRESH STRAWBERRY WATER. Take one pottle of strawberries and pick the stalks from them; pass them through a sieve with your wooden spoon; and put in two large spoonfuls / of powdered sugars squeeze one lemon, and let the rest be waters make it palatable, pass it through a sieve, and it is fit for use. ✓ N°. 119. BARBERRY WATER. Take two large spoonfuls of bar- berry jam, and put them in a bason; squeeze two lemons, put in one gill of syrup and the rest waters, put a little cochineal in, and if you find it not rich enough, put a little more syrup, makeno THE COMPLE it palatable, pass it through it is fit for use.. - N°. 120. PEACH \Vi Xake two large spoonft jam in a bason j put one h; ter almonds with a littl sugar; squeeze five-lemon gills of syrup, and let the r make it palatable, pass Steve with a spoon, and it i N“. 12T. PEAR w^ •g, —= -i> Get some large pears, ra a bason; if your pears a will be sufficient, if small, squeeze six lemons, put of syrup and let the res make it rich and palate through a lawn sieve, aiK use.Ill CONFECTIONER. N®. 122. CHERRY WATER. KT •— -a>» ' Take one pound of Kentish cherries, pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them; take the cherries and kernels, put them into a bason and add four gills of syrup; squeeze four lemons in, and let the rest be water; make it palatable, pass it through a sieve, and it is fit for use. N*. 123. ORGEAT. Take six ounces of sweet and one dozen bitter almonds; pound them very fine so that you cannot feel one piece of almond; mix one quart of water with them, strain it through a lawn sieve and put one gill of orange flower water to it, and it is fit for use.112 THE COMPLl ICE CRE. OF ALL SOR - —«»i »«»■ N®. 124. BARBERRY 1C •<3==D< Pare a large wooden barberry jam and put into one pint of cream; squec2 in, mix it well 5 add a lit to colour it j put it into y pot and cover it over 5 put - pot into a pail and some i the pot; throw a good dt the ice in the pail, turning t for ten minutes; then ope and scrape it from the side;113 CONFECTIONER. again, and keep turning it for some time, till your cream is like butter, and as thick; put it in your moulds, put them into a pail and cover it with ice and salt for three quarters of an hour, till you find the water is come to the top of the pail; do not be sparing of salt, for if you do not use enough it will not freeze; dip your mould into w’ater, and turn it out on your plate to send to table. N°. 125. RASBERRY ICE CREAM. Take a large spoonful of rasberry jam; put it into a bason and squeeze one lemon in; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal to colour it; pass it through a sieve into a bason; put it into your freezing pot, and do as above directed in your barberry ice cream.THE COMPLl il4 N®. 126. STRAWBERRY Take a large spoonful ' jam; add a pint of crea cochineal; put it into ; pot, and follow the first your rasberry cream. N°. 127. APRICOT ic 4' ,r~ Take one spoonful of put it into a bason and lemon, in ; take a hand almonds pounded with dered sugar, put them al cream and put it into youi115 CONFECTIONER. N®. 128. PINE APPLE ICE CREAM. ' •<{==> Take one gill and a half of pine apple syrup, put it into a bason and squeeze in one lemon and a half; add one pint of cream, make it palatable, then put it into your freezing pot and freeze it till it is as thick as butter; if you would have it in the shape of a pine, take the shape and fill it; then, lay half a sheet of brown paper over the mould before you put it into the ice; and let it remain some time, and be careful no water gets into the shape. N°. 129. CURRANT ICE CREAM., •«===J> T[\ke one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a bason with half a gill of syrup; squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint of cream116 THE COMP] and a little cochineal, through a sieve and fn others. N®. 130. PISTACHIO I •<l===^ V "Break six eggs into beat thenri well with a w put in a pint of cream, 1 with the eggs and put in lemon, one gill and a hall a little cinnamon and ma stir it all the time, else it it boil till you find it gn comes to a curd; then ta four ounces of pistachio and pounded very fine in the custard; pass it throu^ put it into your freezing fCONFECTIONER. 117 N*. 131. BISCUIT ICE CRtAM. •<U=S=!)* Break sik eggs into a stewpan and beat them well with a wooden spoon j add one pint of cream, the rind of one lemon, two gills of syrup and a little spice; boil it till you find it just thick* ens, stirring it all the time; crumble some Naples biscuits and ratafia biscuits; pass them through a sieve with the other ingredient, and put it in your freezing pot» N®. 132. PLAIN ICE CREAM. •<!==={>> Put one pint of cream into a freezing pot in a little ice, whisk it about till it hangs about the whisk; then take the whisk out and put as much pow* dered sugar as will lay on half a crown; stir and scrape it about with your ice scraper till you find it all fro-118 THE COMPI zen; put it into your rr them in your ice to take N®. 133. BROWN BREA] •«====£ Do the same with a as in the plain ice crea you have frozen it, rasp of brown bread and pi you put it into your mou N°, 134. ROYAL IC] Take the yolks of \ two whole eggs; beat t with your spoon; then ta one lemon, two gills of s^ of cream, a little spice orange flower water; m and put them over the them all the time with when you find it grows119 CONFECTIONER. .off, and pass it through a sieve; put it into a freezing pot, freeze it, and take a little citron, and lemon and . orange peel with a few pistachio nuts blanched ; cut them all and mix them with your ice before you put them in your moulds. N®. 135. GINGER ICE CREAM. •<!====!>• Tax E four ounces of ginger preserved, pound it and put it into a bason, with two gills of syrup, a lemon squeezed, and one pint of cream; then freeze it. N®. 136. FRESH STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. ■a=3f=.i>‘ ^ TTake one pint of fresh strawberries, pick the stalks from them and pass them through a sieve with your wooden spoon; add four ounces of powdered120 THE COMPL sugar to them, and one ] freeze it, &c. N®. 137. FRESH RASBERR Take one pint of rs them through a sieve; p of powdered sugar and a then freeze it. N°. 138. FRESH APRICO' <t ■ ■■■■— .!> Take four ounces of t cots you can get, pass th sieve with your wooden sp ounces of powdered suga of cream, and freeze it. N®. 139. COFFEE ICE •<u====o TAK E one ounce of and put it in a stew pan121 CONFECTIONER. of cream; put it over the fire and let it simmer and boil ten minutes or a quar- ter of an hour; drain all the coffee from it, break four eggs into a pan and add one gill and a half of syrup; beat them well up together, put the cream that comes from the coffee into it; give it a boil, stirring it all the time, pass it through a sieve and freeze it. N*. 140. CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. •<L. - ~ Take one ounce and a half of cho- colate and warm it over the fire; take six eggs, one gill of syrup, and one pint of cream; put it over the fire till it be- gins to thicken; mix the chocolate in, pass it through a sieve and freeze it. GTHE COMPLl 122 N®. 141. SEVILLE ORANG •g= - - -» Rasp the rind of one 5 into a bason, and squee two lemons; add two gill one pint of cream; mix i through a sieve, and free; N®. 142. LEMON ici Rasp one lemon and or fourj add two gills one pint of cream; mix pass it through a sieve a: N*. 143. CHINA ORANG . ■ -,T Rasp one China orange and one lemon and i two gills of syrup ant123 CONFECTIONER. cream; pass it through a sieve and freeze it. N*. 144. BURNT FILBERT ICE CREAM. Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream; put four eggs into a stew- pan, with one pint of cream and two gills of syrup; boil it till it grows thick, pass it through a sieve and freeze it; then mix your filberts with it before you put it in your moulds. N°. 145. BURNT ICE CREAM. . •«===>• Take six eggs, one gill of syrup and one pint of cream; boil it over the fire until it becomes thick; then have two ounces of powdered sugar in ano- ther stewpan, and put it over the fire; let it-burn till all melts, stirring it all the time, and when you see it is burnt of G 2124 TTIE COMPLl a fine brown, pour the ot quickly, pass it through freeze it. N®. 146. MILLEFR.UIT ] •d====> Take two gills of syr three lemons, put in a p and freeze it; cut some 1 little orange peel, and a li into small pieces; when ready to put into the m your sweetmeats with a lit mix your ingredients well cochineal, as it must appi and there a little red, the the mould. N®. 147. FRESH CURRAN! •<U— I > Take one pint of curran through a sieve with fi^125 CONFECTIONER. G 3 powdered sugar and a pint of cream, then freeze it. N®. 148. CEDRATY ICE CREAM. •a===^ ’'JTake two large spoonfuls of essence ot cedraty, put it into a bason, squeeze in three lemons and add one pint of cream; observe that all the essence is melted, then pass it through a sieve and freeze it. N®. 149. BURNT ALMONDS ICE CREAM. ; -i-Jlh This ice is done in the same manner - as the burnt filbert ice cream. N®. 150. PARMASAN CHEESE ICE CREAM. •g -,--i -jjb- Take six eggs, half a pint of syrup and a pint of cream; put them into a stewpan and boil them until it begins to126 THE COMPLE thicken; then rasp three o masan cheese, mix and through a sieve, and freeze N®. 151. DAMSON ICE ■g.-—= -y Take three ounces of pre sons, pound them and brea of them, put them into a ba in two lemons, and a pir press them through a sieve it. N®. 152, PRUNELLO ic •g Put five eggs into a pa gills of syrup and one pir boil it over the fire till it c then put as much prunello make it palatable; then pai a sieve, and freeze it.127 CONFECTIONER. N“. 153. PEACH ICE CREAM. Take one large spoonful of peach jam, add one handful of bitter almpnds pounded with sugar, squeeze one or two lemons, and put in a pint of cream; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. N®.' 154. BLACK CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, squeeze one lemon in, and add a pint of cream; pass it, and freeze it. N°. 155. CHERRY ICE CREAM. 4==> Take half a pound of preserved cher-» ries, pound them stones and all; put them into a bason with one gill of syrup, squeeze in one lemon and add a pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it.128 THE COMPLE^ WATER I OF ALL SOR' N®. 156, BARBERRY WA •a===!> Take a large spoonful jam, put it into a bason, sqi lemon, add a pint of water cochineal to colour it; pas a sieve and freeze it; be ' that it freezes thick and butter before you put it in y129 CONFECTIONER. G 5 N®. 157. RASBERRY WATER ICE. •<t= ; ■ TV Take a large spoonful of rasberry jelly or jam; put it into a bason, squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of water and a little cochineal, and pass it through a sieve ; if you make it roith jam, be, careful not to let any of the seeds get into your ice ; let it freeze rich like butter, which if it does not, you must add a little more syrup, and then freeze it. N®. 158. STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. Taker large spoonful of strawberry jam, put it into your bason; squeeze in one lemon, add a pint of water and a little cochineal, and if it does not freeze rich enough, add a little more syrup, and freeze it. .130 THE COMPI 159. APRICOT^ A- —■ t Take a large spoonful > put it into a bason, sque in, add a pint of water, a one handful of bitter alrr fine, with a little sugj through a sieve, and frei thick. N N®. 160. PINE APPLE •«====3 Take two gills of pin squeeze two lemons in, water; it must be rich ani if you want to have it to pine, close it well and co with a sheet of paper be in the ice; let it lie fo vered with the ice and s turn it out.131 • CONFECTIONER. N®, 161. CHOCOLATE WATER ICE. Tak E three ounces of chocolate, warm it and mix half a gill of syrup with a pint of water j mix it well and freeze it thick. N“. 162. SEVILLE ORANGE WATER ICE. ’(j ^ Ta KE the rind of two Seville oransfcs off very fine and thin; squeeze them into a bason with one lemon ; add two gills of syrup and half a pint of water ; pass them through a sieve, and freeze them rich. N®. 163. CHINA ORANGE WATER ICE. •<Z===^ Rasp one China orange, squeeze in three and one lemon, put in two gills of syrup and half a pint of water; pass it, and freeze it rich and thick. G 6132 THE COMPLI N®. 164. LEMON WA' Rasp one lemon, squee: put in two gills of syru pint of water; pass it and N°. 165. PUNCH WA' , -a n ■ - PARE the rind very thin c orange, you are not to your parings into a basor two oranges and one lemc gills of syrup and half a p mix it and pass it; freeze frozen and mixed well wit put as much rum in as y make it agreeable to th when you put the rum freezing pot out of the i mix it, which must be wei you put it into the mould'CONFECTIONER. 133 N°. 166. PEACH WATER ICE. •0. ■ —»>■ Take a large spoonful of peach jam, put it into a bason with a large handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, one gill of syrup, and one pint of water j pass it and freeze it rich. N®. 167. CURRANT WATER ICE. •<!- Take a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a bason, squeeze two lemons, add half a gill of syrup and a pint of watery then freeze it rich. N°. 168. FRESH CURRANT WATER ICE. ■1 r. ■:_!)• Take a pint of currants, pass them through a sieve, put in four ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of watery pass it and freeze it rich.134 THE COMPLl N°. 169. FRESH RASBERRY TT. -ir Take half a pottle of ra them through a sieve, the ounces of powdered sug< of water 3 pass it and freez< N®. 170. DAMSON WA Take a quarter of a p( served damsons and brea] put them into a bason, sej lemon, add almost a pint half a gill of syrup ; pass sieve and freeze it rich. N®. 171. PRUNELLO WA •<{===;}> Put two gills of syrup i] squeeze in three lemons, h1S5 CONFECTIONER. water, and as much prunello spice as will make it palatable; press it and freeze it rich. N®. 172. BLACK CURRANT WATER ICE. •<!====>• Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a bason; squeeze in two lemons, and add a gill of syrup and half a pint of water; pass it and freeze it rich. N®. 173. GRAPE WATER ICE. Take two handfuls of elder flowers, put them into a pot, boil a pint of water and pour it over them, cover them close; then take two gills of syrup and the juice of three lemons; drain all the water^ from the flowers, add it to the rest, making it palatable, pass it and freeze it; when it is frozen, put it in136 THE COMPLE the shape of a bunch of < it well and cover the mouli sheet of paper; then put ii and salt for one hour bel it out. N*. 174. CHERRY WA' •0. Take a quarter of a pc served cherries sweet; po a mortar just to break the put them into your basor two lemonSj add one gill pint of water, and a littl mix them well together; p freeze it rich. N“. 175. PEAR wat: Squeeze three lemons i add two gills of syrup’ an of water; rasp four large137 CONFECTIONER. into it; mix them well and make it palatable, pass it through a lawn sieve and freeze it rich; put it into the shape of the pear, and cover the moulds with paper before you put them in the ice* N®. 176. MILLEFRUIT WATER ICE, ■<===»• Squeeze three lemons into a bason, add two gills of syrup, and half a pint of water ; freeze it rich, then cut some preserved orange and lemon peel with a little angelica in small pieces; put them with the ice which must be like butter before they are put in; pass it through a sieve before you freeze it, or put your sweetmeats in, then put a little cochineal in, but you are not to mix that much, only to be a little red here and there, as if to run in veins in the ice, but observe you do this before you put it in the mioulds.138 THE COMPL N°. 177. BERGAMOT ' ■€===5==» Squeeze three lemons add two gills of syrup of water and half a tc essence of bergamot, pas it rich before you put moulds. N®. 178.'Cedraty m ■ T Take four ounces of esse put It into a bason, sqi lemons, and add two and half a pint of wai it through a sieve, freeze you would have it in tl cedraty, after you ha^ mould, close it well an half a sheet of brown pa put it ill the ice.159 CONFECTIONER. N“. 179. FRESH STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. «==========» Take half a pottle of strawberries, pick the stalks from them, pass them through a sieve, put in five ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of water pass it and freeze it rich, if it does not freeze rich put some syrup in. V*140 THE COMPL FRUITS PREI IN B R A N I N*. 180. APRIC •<{===> Get the best apricots ^ palest colour and clea but not too ripe j put th( water, cover them over \ put them over a very them simmer till you soft 5 then take them o in a large table cloth double, and cover them i141 CONFECTIONER. have some of the best French brandy, it must not be coloured, but clear, like water; and put ten ounces of powdered «ugar to every quart of brandy; let the sugar melt, then put your apricots into a glass jar, fill it up with your brandy and cover it up very close with leather and bladder, now and then keep filling up your jar with brandy, for the apricots suck up a good deal: if you do not cover them close the apricots will lose their colour. N®. 181. PEACHES. •«===!> Oet some of the finest peaches, free from all spot colour, what is called the white heart peach; they come in the last in season ; scald them in a stew-pan of water, take them out when soft, and put them in a large tablecloth four or five double; put ten ounces of powdered142 THE COMPL sugar to every quart of I white, let your sugar m well i put your peaches ii and pour your brandy ovi them very close with lea ‘ der, and observe to keep with brandy. N, B. Mix your bran before you scald your pe; N°. 182. MORELLA ( •<1==^ Get some of the finest ries; cut the stalks anc them about half an inch them in your glass jar ; p of powdered sugar to e brandy; when the suga pour it over your cherries, with the leather and blad filling it up.145 CONFECTIONER. N®. 183. MOGUL PLUMBS. •!=======», Take some preserved Mogul plumbs and drain all the syrup from them, put them into your jar, put five ounces of sugar to every quart of brandy; when the sugar is melted pour it over your plumbs, and cover it close as be- fore directed. N*. 184. GREEN GAGES. 4====0’ Take some preserved green gages, and use the same method as your last receipt directs. N®. 185. GREEN ORANGE PLUMBS. ’■<U ■- ‘ * Take some preserved green orange plumbs and use the same method as before directed.144 THE COMF1 N°. 1 86. ■ GRiS •<I====I) Take some preserved g the same method as befo145 CONFECTIONER. PRESERVED SWEETMEATS, I WET. N®. 187. GREEN APRICOTS, WET. >1===9< Take green apricots when they are the size of a small walnut, put <hem in a bag with a great deal of salts and shake them in it just for the salt to take off the silkiness of the skin; then take them out, put them into a large pan with water, place them over a slow fire just to scald them, and when you find they H146 THE COMPL grow soft, then have a pan with a very thin syru but before you put then apricots well from the w sieve; when the syrup b in, but do not put too m at a time, only let the s apricots 5 but observe yoi them in the pan ; boil yo a quarter of an hour, tl out, put them in a flat ea cover them with a sheet mo dust can get in ; the them half an hour, and ii look well, drain the syr through a sieve ; boil th( minutes, then put the ap and just give them two then put them in the flat them close with paper, m them covered with syri when your syrup is of a and the apricots look \147 CONFECTIONER. H 2 into your pots, and when cold put a little apple jelly over them to cover the tops. N*. 186. APRICOTS RIPE, WET. •<1- i-'j- — First take a large knife, split the apricots in half, and with a small knife peel them fine; have a preserving pan on the fire wdth water boiling; put some of the apricots in; when you find they grow soft, have two basons of cold water on each hand and put the softest by themselves, as those that are broken wdll spoil the rest; have a preserving pan on the fire with thin syrup boiling, drain all the water from them, and put the hardest ones in and let them boil ten minutes, then put them in a flat earthen pan, and cover them with paper ; then have another preserving pan on the fire with syrup boiling; put the soft ones in and just give them a boil or two,^ then148 THE CO^^^Ll put them in the some pan and cover them ; the nex( hard ones five minutes, anc the same pan again, but dr; from the soft ones ; boil it on them when hot; do tl or five days successively, an covered with the syrup, th in pots, and pour a little over the top, and be care are not in the least damp, make them work and grov N°. 189. PRESERVED PI CHIPS, WET. •<!. ■ ..r— Xake the top and stalk apple, chip ofip the ends of and the bottoms of ther pine apples in slices about t of the fifth part of an inc earthen deep pan, and on149 CONFECnONER. 1 H 3 sugar; lay some sugar at the bottom of the pan, then a layer of the pieces of pine, but not one over the other; then put another layer of sugar pretty deep, then another of pine, then another of sugar pretty deep, and so on till your pan is almost full; at the top'put a good deal of sugar pretty deep; cover them up with paper and let them stand till you see the sugar is almost melted ; let them and the syrup boil half an hour, then put them in the same pan again, the next day giVe them another boil, and so continue eight days, then drain all the syrup from them entirely; if the syrup is too clodden, just dip the chips in a little water; then wipe them and lay them on your sieve to dry ; mind the sieve is quite dry ; as you put them into the stove, dust a little very fine powdered sugar through a cloth bag over them, put' them in the stove and let them remain there till you think they will not giveTHE COMPLE 1-iO nor be stickey; then put i drawers or box with clean about them. N°. 190. ANGELICA Cut the stalks of the ai a foot long’, put them in a and boil them till they ai then string the outsides < put them into a tub of c( they are all done ; drain off, lay them in a long ea it is three parts full, pour syrup over them and fill it, always keeping the ang with syrup, and let it st day ; there must be a ho of the pan towards the bol may always drain the syi angelica without disturbii syrup, put it to the angc151 CONFECTIONER. H 4 or nine days successively, and let it re main in the same pan for use. N*. 191. BARBERRIES IN SPRIGS, WET. •0. -■ Cut the sides of the barberries open, take the stones out of them, tie six bunches to a piece of wood about an inch long and about the sixth part of an inch wide, wind them on with red thread j put your barberries in bunches on a sieve, and have a preserving pan with'sugar, and boil the syrup half an hour; put the barberries in the syrup, boil them and skim them with paper, give six or seven boils, always get the scum clean otf; put them in a flat earthen pan and cover them with paper; those tied on a stick are called bunches, but what you would wish in sprigs must not be tied to a stick, you may put them in pots as other sweetmeats.152 THE COMPL K®. 192. RASBERRits V ■> Take some of the fin you can get, then with a 1 .the largest and dryest; • bottom of a sieve with preserving pan on the fi in it, boil the syrup ten i put the rasberries in, let f skim them as they boil brown paper; ten or tw sufficient, and of all thing:i the pots are quite dry b your rasberries in, for if least damp it will spoil yc next day cover them wit and let them stand in the ] before you tic them up.CONFECTIONER. 153 H o N®. 193. CURRANTS IN BUNCHES WHOLE, WET. Take some of-the best currants you can getj stone them with a pin and cut them as little as you possibly can ; take a small piece of stick, tie about six bunches to this stick with thread, and lay them oelh sieve; have your preser- ving pan on the fire with your syrup in it, boil the syrup about twenty mi- nutes on a brisk tire; put your cur- rants in bunches into the syrup ; only cover the bottom of the pan with them, nor put too many in j let them have five or six boils, and take the scum off, with paper ^ put them in your pots ; when cold put some apple jelly over the top of them, and mind your pots are very dry as before directed.154 THE COMPLE N®. 194. CEDRATIES WII •<t. TTi ■ • -»• Oet the cedratles at the ] house ; make a hole throu die of them at the thick eu in a large preserving pan and boil them one hour then drain all the water fn them up end ways to dra out of the ends j boil son large preserving pan twe then put the cedraties into en deep pan, pour the syn and let them stand two da meddle with them, then be syrup half an hour; (do no top soft) put them into cover them with paper j drain the syrup from the pour it on them again, an( for ten days, always k' covered with syrup; thCONFECTIONER. 155 H 6 quarters are done the same way only cut long ways before you first boil them; when done put them into your pots, and when cold cover them with apple jelly; take care your pots are dry. N°. 195. CHERRIES SWEET, IN SYRUP. -'1 ~ Let your cherries be the best Ken- tish you can get, stone them, put them into a tub with boiling hot syrup over them, and cover them till the next day^ then boil and put them in the tub again, the next day boil them softly twenty minutes and put them into the tub again, continue this for eight days ; then make a thick syrup for them, put them into it, then in an earthen pan or pot; put some apple jelly over the tops and brandy papers over them ; if you want to dry sweet cherries, put them into your preserving pan, warm them and156 THE COMPLE' drain them well from the s; a sieve j put them into tl and shift the sieve every are dry j then put them int( Whole cherries are preserv way as those, only you lea in and the stalks on thenii 196. CHERRIES NO' I WET OR DRY Let your cherries be th tish you can get, and stone manner; cut a quill as if ) ing to make a tooth pick, the end of it round, take cherry, thrust the quill do the top of the cherry, hold at the same time that you p stone will come.out withou cherry to pieces, which i would do; when you hav(157 CONFECTIONER. all the cherries, put them into a tub, and put a large quantity of powdered sugar over them, so as to put layers of sugar, and layers of cherries till the tub is full; let them stand two or three days till you find all the sugar is melted, amongst the juice of the cherries; then Jet them have one or two boils, pour them into the tub again, and let them stand till the next day; repeat the same four or five days successively; the last time pour what you want to dry on a sieve, and when they are all well drain- ed, have sieves enough to put them on, then put them on the bottom of a sieve only just to cover the bottom, let your stove be very hot; put them in, changing them every day, and turn the cherries, they will dry the better, then paper your box, and put them in ; those you would wish wet, put them in pots as before directed.158 THE COMPL N®. 197. CUCUMBERS IN G •g; I— , Let your cucumbers b free from all spots, put the water, let them stand two then take them out and dra put them in another pan oi them, put them in a tub, stand all night; then dra from them, put them in water, and to every two qi put half a pint of syrup; and let them boil over a minutes; put them in th and let them stand till tl then boil them again, drai from them, and have a ch the syrup of a proper thic boil, put the cucumbers ii them boil gently for a ( hour; then put them into pan, and cover them; leCONFECTIONER. 159 two days, then drain the syrup from them; boil the syrup one minute, and pour it over them ; the next day boil them and the syrup together three or four minutes and repeat the same for five days; then put them in the pots or in a cream pan, and cover them up. N. B. Always observe to let your preserved fruits stand two or three days ^before you put them up. N*. 198. COMPORT GOLDEN PIPPINS, WET. A Let your golden pippins be the largest and soundest you can get; pare them very fine and clean, bore a hole through them large enough to put your little finger through; put some very fine syrup rather thin in a preserving pan, peel some lemons very fine, and put the peel in the syrup, which must be thinner than any thin syrup in the for-160 THE COMPL mer ingredients; put you let them simmer over the i three quarters of an hot them off and when cold then put them in your coi N. B. This is a quick > want a comport in a hurr N*. 199. COMPORT FRI WHITE, WE' ■6-i I Let your pears be larg cut them into quarters loi them in a pan of water, fire which must be slow ; mer three quarters of 2 slowly; then put some lei pan of thin syrup ; drain from them ; when your sy them in and give them fiv then put them in an earf and the next day boil the161 CONFECTIONER. you think the syrup Is got well into them, then keep them in the' brown pan for use. N®. 200. COMPORT FRENCH PEARS, RED, WET. ■«===> Let your pears be large and sound ^ pare and cut them in quarters 5 prepare them as in the former receipt, only put some cochineal in to colour them, while they are simmering over the fire ; put it in by degrees, till you see it becomes a fine red. N°. 201. DAMSONS, whole, WET, ^ Gtet some of the largest and best damsons, and prick them with a pin at each end, boiling some syrup on a brisk fire, in your preserving pan for a quarter of an hour 5 then put your damsons in, and boil them twenty minutes 3 put162 THE COMPLE them in an earthen pan, c( with paper, and skim then quite clean; put them in the next day strain the syru and let it have a good be the damsons into the pot: cold put some apple jelly ( N®.202. grapes in Bu^ •a= Stone your grapes witl have a large preserving pj in it, put half an ounce o the w’’ater when cold, an of paper over them in th them simmer over a slo half an hour; let them s put them into a brown p tub with some water till then draw all the water have some thin syrup boili put the grapes into it, arCONFECTIONER. 163 are in, let them boil five minutes; then take them off, put them into an earthen pan, and cover them with paper ; the next day drain the syrup from them, and boil the syrup a quarter of an hour ; then put the grapes in five minutes ; repeat the same next day, till the syrup comes to a proper thickness, and the grapes look well, but be careful to have syrup enough to cover them. N®. 203. GOOSEBERRIES IN THE FORM OF HOPS, WET. •<u-i—1>- Oet the finest green gooseberries you can, cut them into quarters, and take the seeds out of them ; take a needle and white thread, make a knot at the end, take hold of one of the gooseber- ries that you have cut, and push the needle through the end of the goose- berry that is split, take another and do164 THE COMPI the same, and make it g( the other gooseberry, anc have got eight on; thei they will be in the form o when you have finished y the ends of the thread j a pan of water, scald t them into a tub with th< that you have scalded the lie in the tub, three or they begin to grow sour then put them into som over the fire till they bei not to boil, observe to pi into the water, and the drain all that away fron lay the hops regularly pan j boil some thin syruj them; give them a boil c you think they are do them in an | earthen pan, ^io dry them.165 CONFECTIONER. I N°, 20-1-. GREEN GOOSEBERRIES, WET. Let your gooseberries be the largest and finest you can get, put them over the fire to scald, but do not let them boil, put them into a tub and let them stand three days; then drain all the li- quor from them, put them into another pan with water, and a little syrup with the water; let them be over the fire till they are warm, but not to boil only just to come green ; the next day strain all the liquor from them, ppt the gooseber- ries, into an earthen pan, and pour some thin syrup over them boiling hot; re- peat it once a day for six^days; make the syrup come thicker by degrees, and then put them into the pots.166 THE COMPI N®. 205. LEMONS, Wi -« > 1 Get some large clear have no spots, carve the c with a knife as you like at the stalk of them, the your little finger in, that penetrate the inside; ha serving pan with water, into the water, cover th( and let them boil gentl) them grow tender; then syrup, boiling on the fir water from the lemons ( the lemons into a small syrup over them, and cc paper; let them stand til then drain the syrup fre and boil it a quarter of put the lemons into the t the syrup over them, and till the next day ; then 1CONFECTIONER. 167 and syrup together for twenty minutes; put them into the tub again, keep the lemons covered with syrup, and if you find it shrink, put more syrup to it the next day ; repeat the same boiling, and when you find the syrup has penetrated the lemons, and they are clear, take a clean large preserving pan with more - syrup, and boil it till it is pretty thick ; drain the old syrup from the lemons, put them into the tub, pour the other syrup that is boiling over them, and let them stand three or four days before your look at them, then if you find they have not sucked in the syrup enough, you may drain the syrup from them, and give them another boil for a quarter 'of an hour; pour it boiling over them, and always keep them in a flat earthen pan.168 THE COMPLl N“. 206. SEVILLE ORAl WET. •<I====» Tak E some of the largest S you can get, and very c spots; carve the outsides flowers or according to yo bore a hole at the stalk about the size of half you put them into cold wat< you have carved them t turn black ; let them be about four or five hours ; t on the fire in a large cop boil them slowly about fou take them out of the wa them with the end that undermost upon a sieve, water may drain out of th thin syru,p boil a quarte: in another pan, put the or boil them ten minutes; tl in a small tub, pour thCONFECTIONER. 169 I them and cover them with paper; th/g next day boil the oranges and syrup together a quarter of an hour on a brisk fire; put them into the tub again, and let them stand till next day ; then drain the syrup from them and boil it twenty minutes, observing to keep them well covered in the’syrup; continually boiling your syrup, and putting it over the oranges for six or eight days till you find they are tender, and have taken the syrup ; let them stand*five or six days in the syrup, give the syrup five or six boils again, and pour it over the oranges into a large flat earthen pan, in which keep them for use. N®. 207. ORANGE PEELS, WET. <«==»• Get some of the finest Seville orange peels clean from spots 5 put them into a copper pan, if you have a great num-170 THE COMPL ber to do, and boil then scrape the inside of then none of the pith remains; p one in another round a s the tub.is almost full; • deal of syrup over them covered; let them stand days before you touch th hole at the bottom of the syrup from the peels, boi' over them ; let them stand then boil your syrup again, stand for four or five d then drain all the syrup fr pour it when boiling on th them remain in the tub going to candy them, th out, and wash them wh them. N. B. Observe to kec covered wdth the syrup.confectioner; 171 N®. 208. ORANGE CHIPS, WET. 4===> Take some Seville orange peels, cut a bung or piece of cork round, so that it will go into the orange; with a sharp pen-knife pare them round, which we call turning, and cut your chips about the third part of an inch long; and nearly the same thickness; put them . into a pan of water, and boil them gent- ly over the fire one hour and a half: have another pan with syrup boiling ; drain all the water from the chips, put them into the syrup and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then put them into a large earthen pan, or a small tub, cover them,and let them stand till next day; then boil them again with the syrup a quarter of an hour; put them into the tub again, repeat this for four or five times; then put them into a large pan, not into pots, cover them I 2L72 THE' COMPL well with a syrup, and k use.’ N®. 209. LEMON CHI Take some line lemon off all the rind with a kni into pieces, if you can ab of an inch wide; put ther bage net, and into a preser water; boil them quite have another pan with s and when the chips are b in the water, take them c . and put them into the boi Let them be we fore you put them into tl let them boil a quarter of: put them into a large ear let them stand till next da the syrup from them an( minutes, and pour it over173 confectioner: them till the next day, then boil the chips and syrup together twenty minutes and put them into the tub again; keep them covered with the syrup, and when you think it is well soaked in them, boil them all together; put them' into s your tub, cover them well with syrup and keep them in the tub till you want to candy. \ N®. 210. LEMON PEELS WET. t ' Take the largest and clearest lemon peels you can get; and throw into a large preserving pan with water; let them boil till you find them quite soft and tender, then take them one at a time out of the water, and with a table spoon take all the pith out of the inside clean from them; throw them into a tub of cold water* as you do them ; let them stand in the water four or five days.174 THE COMPLE then put your lemon pee the other, and place them i deep tub; have a large pi of syrup boiling over the fir of the syrup over them, ai tub ; let them stand two c a hole at the bottom of 1 the syrup out j boil the S] four minutes, pour it ov again and keep them ah vered with syrup : repeat syrup in this manner for daysj then keep them in the tub till you want to ca N®, 211, PEARS, •<u^—r ■ > G et some baking pear; a very hard nature, put t large preserving pan wit them simmer over the fire them rather soft 3 take th<CONFECTIONER.- 175 boiling water with a skimmer, and put them into a bason with cold water; pare them in this manner, first cut off the end of the pear, then hold the stalk end in your hand, and bring your knife down the skin strait, so as to make the skin come offin live pieces all round the pearj throw them into another ba- son with cold water; have the preserv- ing pan with syrup in it, let the syrup boil ten minutes; then put the pears in ; but first drain the water well from them, let them boil in the syrup again about ten minutes, skim it with paper, boil them in the same manner six days, draining the syrup off the paper every time till the syrup is of a fine thickness; let them remain in this syrup till you want to candy them.THE COMPLE' 176 N®. 212. GREEN ORANGE PI Let your plumbs be the S' and best you can'get, prid a fork and put them into have a very thin syrup, so t hardly sweet; scald them them have but one gent them in an earthen pan, let till the next day, then d syrup from them, boil and them ; repeat the same ei days successively, then let gentle boil and put them i observe that your pots are dampj put some apple jel when cold; let it be three you tie them up, and keep other sweetmeats in a dry177 CONFECTIONER. I 5 N®. 213. MOGUL PLUMBS, WET. Take the largest mogul plumbs you can get with clear skins, prick them with a fork about ten or a dozen times, mostly about the stalk j throw them into cold water, otherwise they will turn black where you have pricked them, put them over the fire just to scald them, have a pan half full of boiling syrup,, drain all the plumbs from the water through a sieve and put them into the syrup, do not put too many in, only just to cover the bottom of the pan; boil the plumb^^ and the syrup ten minutes, then put them into a flat earthen pan and cover them with paper; the next day drain the syrup from them through a sieve, let the syrup boil, put the plumbs in it and let them boil together; put them into the same pan and repeat the same five or six days; it is best toTHE COMPLE 178 keep these plumbs in a flat till you want to dry any c N“. 214. PINE APPLES, V 'Take the pine apple, the small pieces of leaves i tom of every pine, take stalk, and have a preservin fire with water, and to eve: of water put half a pii so as to make it very fine th: only just sweet; be sure before you put the pines in simmer an hour over the fi day let them boil gently a take them off and cover th the next day let them boil half an hour; put more s) as you use to other fruits, drain this syrup off and boi the same seven or eight dcCONFECTIONER 179 them into an earthen pan, and cover them up very carefully from any dust, and be very careful that your pans are very dry. N®. 215. A SMALL YELLOW PLUMB, WET. -1 — Let your plumbs be clear from spots, run a fork in once at each end and no more, you must not have the plumbs too ripe, put them in water as you prick them j boil a pan of syrup• ten minutes; drain all the water from the plumbs and put them in the syrup; boil and skim them, repeat the same four or five days j then put them carefully into pots, mind you do not break them for they are very tender, and take care your pots are very dry ; let them stand two days before you put them by ; cut small pieces of writing paper, dip them in brandy and put it over your fruit in I 6180 THE COMPLE every pot, this should be fruits, it must be put clos< can get in, then another that; tie them up. N“. 216. STRAWBERRI] WET. O b's E R V E to get the for this purpose in ver ther, viz, that if it has for three or four days, picl and finest you can get; pu into a preserving pan, boil i fire for half an hour and pu berries in while it boils, doi in^o the pan only one strav let them boil twenty minu off all the scum with paper ly; if you find they are li take them off immediately i into your pots, when colCONFECTIONER. 181 jelly over, and be very careful that your pots are not the least damp. • N®. 217. APRICOT CHIPS, WET. •(!===> Take'the chips that you cut off the apricots, and some powdered sugar; take a brown pan, lay a layer of chips and then a layer of sugar over them, and so on till your pan is full; let them stand till the sugar is all melted, boil them and put them into the pan again; boil them the next day, and so repeat boiling them ten or eleven days suc- cessively ; then have proper syrup and put them in a brown pan till you want to dry them. N®. 218. GREEN GAGES, WET. ^ V ■ - ' — tv Let your green gages be very sound, prick them with a fork six orTHE COMPLE 182 * seven times or more aboi put them into cold water, will turn black ; scald the another preserving pan wil rup j drain the water from f put them into a deepearthe them regularly and pour syrup over them; let the next day, then drain all th them j boil it again, and them; repeat so for seven c then take another flat earth< the syrup from them, plac in this pan; boil some fre half an hour and pour it ov ver them up till you wan may put some into pots if;CONFECTIONER. 183 DRIED FRUITS. N®. 219. DAMSONS, DRIED. ■<T '■ - — Take damsons that you have pre- served, drain all the syrup from them, cover the bottoms of the sieves and put them in your stoves 'which must be hot, change the sieves every day till they are dry, and as you change the sieves turn your damsons, and when they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out and paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper between every layer of damsons.184 THE COMPLI N®. 220. MOGUL PLUI •<I==^ Take mogul plumbs tl preserved, drain all the them, wash them in a baso lay them on a sieve; put stove which must be pre them next day on another them stand in the stove days; then put them in pered, and lay a sheet of p every layer of plumbs. N*. 221. GREEN ORA> DRIED. •(U ■■■»■ I Take green orange you have preserved, drain from them, wash them i water, put them on sieve; stove; change the sieves a every day on clean sieves;CONFECTIONER. 185 your box, and use the same care and method as before directed. N®. 222. GREEN GAGES, DRIED. Take preserved green gages, put them over the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put them on the sieves and into the stove j change them every day and turn them, else they will stick; let them be in three days, and then put them in the boxes as before directed. N*. 223. PEARS CANDIED, Or DRIED. f Take the pears out of the syrup, and put them on wires or a large sieve, drain all the syiup from them, w*ash them in warm water to get the syrup off them, drain them quite dry; then have a pan of syrup on the fire boiling, andTHE COMPLl 186 Jet it boil till it comes to b pan off the fire, and take rub it on the sides of the p it turn white > then put ) and take them out, put th and let them stand till cc them in your box. N*. 224. QHERR.IES, SW ■ I ■ Take your cherries and them over the fire, drain from them, put them on f sieves just to cover the them into the stove the nej the sieve, put them in th and let them stand three ( the stove; let them be wel you put them in your bo3 are not, they will grow sc of maggots j paper the directed.CONFECTIONER. 187 N®. 225. CHERRIES not SWEET, dried. •a==a> 1 AKE the cherries that you preserv- ed not sweet, warm them, put them on your sieves and let all the juice run from them ; then while hot put them on the sieves, change them every day and let them be in the stove four or five days, afterwards move them about in the sieves till they are thoroughly dry, then paper your boxes as before directed. r N“. 226. APRICOT CHIPS, DRIED. •0=5 ==^ Ta KE your apricot chips, put them over the fire to be warm, and drain all the syrup from them; then make the chips the size you please, put them on the sieve as you make them, dust some sugar over them through a bag, and put them in the stove; let them be there two days, changing the sieves once or188 THE COMPLl they will stick; when d put them into your boxes N“. 227. ORANGE or L CANDIED or DR] Take your preserved c mon chips, wash them fi with warm water, and thes; from them boil till it co put the chips in and rub the sides with the spoon you see the syrup all canc the chips out with two f them on a wire for the s ofF^ let them stand till C( put them in your boxes a: NV 228. ANGELICA KN Take stalks of preser\ take them out of your panCONFECTIONER. 189 syrup from them with warm water, cut them in slips about a quarter of an inch long, and the length of the angelica when first preserved ; double them into whatever form you like, and if you can, tie them in the form of a true lover’s knot; put them on sieves and into the stove, let them stand till they are quite dry and ready to be candied. N®. 229. BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES, DRIED. ■«=:===»• Take some preserved Barberry bunches, put them over the fire to warm, then on a sieve, let all the syrup drain well from them, then have your sieves ready and put them on j dust some powdered sugar over them through a bag; put them in the stove and let them remain there till they are quite dry, changing your sieves and turning the bunches; they must stand in the stove four days j190 THE COMPLE paper your box, and pu1 before directed. N. B. The above metl currants. N^. 230. LEMON PEELS, OR DRIED. Xake some preserved ] wash them in warm water; on a sieve to drain j boil sc the fire till it comes to bl your peels in ; as soon covered with sugar take the put them on wires for all drop through ; then let th( cold and put them in your N, B. Do orange peel manner.191 CONFECTIONER. N*. 231. CUCUMBERS, DRIED. Take some preserved cucumbers, wash all the syrup from them, put them on your sieves to drain, then into your stove to dry, one day is enough for them to dry j afterwards put them in your boxes as before directed. N®. 232. GREEN APRICOTS, DRIED. •<S========!)* ^lAKEsome preserved green apricots, wash them in a little warm water, put them on your sieves into a hot stove, changing your sieves every day; let them remain two or three days in the stove until they are well dried, then put them into your boxes prepared, and cover them as before directed.192 THE COMPL: N". 233. APRICOTS FU DRIED* ■a. ■ -= l■^=^ Take your apricots ful you have preserved whol halves; wash them in wa them on sieves regular! ' them touch one another; a hot stove for two or thre ing the sieves every day; them into your boxes. N“. 234. GRAPES IN BUN 4. Take some preserved them with warm water, your sieves, and into a h turning of them every your sieves; when well ( into your boxes.CONFECTIONER. 193 N®. 235. PINE APPLE CHIPS, DRIED. T'ake your slices of pine apples that you have in syrup, and wash them in warm water, then put them on your sieves in such a manner that they do not touch each other, then take some fine powdered sugar, put it into a fine linen bag and just shake it over them; keep turning of them every day for three or four days in a hot stove ; when dry put them into your papered box with writing paper between every layer. N°. 236. CEDRATIES, WHOLE, OR IN QUARTERS, DRIED. ■<U Xake your preserved cedraties either whole or in quarters, wash them in a little warm water; boil some syrup in K1^4 THE COMPLl another pan till It comes t a large spoon and mb sides of the pan till it con your cedraties in, take tliei them on your wires over let them drain well, then a hot stove on the wires till the candy dries all roun well dried put them into before directed. N®. 237. PASTE KN01 WHITE. Pare some large apples, into a preserving pan, w enough to come up to 1 apples; let them boil ti to marmalade, then pass sieve into a flat brown ps cochineal and mix it witl .make them a fine colour;CONFECTIONER. 193 K 2 preserving pan with as much syrup in it as you have got apples, and boil the syrup until it comes to blow ; take the syrup off the fire and mix the apples with it in the pan; have sheets or plates made of pewter, about a foot and a half long and about ten inches wide, with edges turned about the eighth part of an inch, to prevent the paste from falling or running oflT; cover your plates with your paste and put it into your stove, which must be hot; let them remain till next day, then take another pewter sheet and with a knife cut the paste round the edges and across the plates, scores about a quarter of an inch wide; then pull it off, and if it comes off easy it is dried enough j when you have got it off in long strings, try to make them into knots according to your fancy; put them on the other plate, then into the stove, and let them stand in the stove two days;196 THE COMPLE then take them out; when put them into papered bo them remain there until ^ candy them.CONFECTIONER. 191 K 3 ' N®. 238. PERFETTO AMORE. <==========»■ For four bottles of brandy, you are to peel six large and fresh lemons» the peel is to be ver}^ thin; it is to be cut in small bits; and put in the brandy with a little salt, half a handful of currants, five coriander seeds, five cloves, and a little cinnamon. The whole is to be infused together for twelve hoursj from which you are to draw of? only two bottles of spirit; then you are to take two pounds of sugar, boiled • and clarified, in two bottles of water with three eggs, this is a red liquor; therefore you are to take a little roche- alum, which you must mix in a little boiling water, and a little cream of tar- tar; mix them in a small mortar; then throw it in the liquor; but first you are to198 THE C0MPLE1 strain it; then mix them and filter it throuijh blottim O i N°. 289. PERSiC( •<l==;S=3>' For four bottles of branc to take four handfuls of bit of the best quality, and th( very fresh, they are to be c bits, with a little salt, t and a little cinnamon; pu brandy: they are to be twenty hours take two bottl two pounds of sugar, with of water, without clarifying liquor will clarify of itself. N”. 240. ANNISEJ For four bottles of brand; take half a pound of annise quarter of a pound of fei199 CONFECTIONER. K 4 cloves to be cut in small bits, with a little salt; put all in the brandy; it is to be infused twelve hours before you distil it; two pounds of sugar must be clarified, with two bottles and a half of water, with the white of two or three eggs well beat together. N°. 24-1. CONNELL A OR CINNAMON. •i. I : , =a> For four bottles of brandy, you must take four ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, thirteen co- riander seeds, a little salt, mixed toge- ther in brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours; vou are to take from the still as much as you can ; two pounds of sugar clarified in two bottles and a half of water, with two or three whites of eggs well beat together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting paper; after you have mixed the spirit, take care to cork your bottles well.200 THE COMPLY N®. 242. COFFEI ^ For four bottles of brand pound of coffee in powde best Turkey; a little salt, a little cinnamon; then mi; for twelve hours before yc two pounds of sugar, two half a pint of water clarified of eggs, filtered through the N®. 243. CHOCOLA •«.==={> FOR four bottles of brandy -pound of the best chocolate, bits,' a little salt, two cloves, cinnamon ; you are to infu brandy ; two pounds of su in two bottles and half a pi with whites of eggs, and filt< the paper.201 CONFECTIONER. N P. You must be particular not to take more than two bottles from every four, except trom the cinnamon, from which you are to take as much as you can get. N°. 244. DAMSON CHEESE. -a a- —D- P icK the damsons free from stalks, leaves, &c. put them into a jar, and tie white paper over them, bake them in a slow oven till quite soft, rub them through a cullender while hot, put the pulp and juice which has passed through the cullender into a stew-pan with fine powdered sugar to your taste, boil it over a.moderate fire till it is as stiff as you can possibly stir it, which will take three hours; keep stirring it to prevent it burning to the pan, and a few minutes before you take it off the fire put the K 5 I202 THE COMPLEl kernels of the damsons ini and mix with it, put it ir moulds, let it stand a day, ar pieces of writing paper the tops of the cups or moulds, in brandy and put close ovei them in a dry place and the for several years. N. B. You may make plun cheese the same way: it is i take the skins off the kernels pivt them into the pan. N®. 245. APPLE CHI 4====3>< Pare and quarter your j take out the cores, put them pot or jar, and put the parini at the top, let them bake in oven till quite soft, take off t cores, and bits of apple w] the top, if they are dry or 1 /CONFECTIONER. 203 put your apples into a stew-pan, with' fine powdered sugar to your taste, and boil them four hours till it is quite stiff, put it in moulds or cups, and lay paper over it moistened with brandy, set it in a dry place and in three weeks it will cut quite smooth. N. B. You may add a little of the* rind of a lemon grated, or a few drops of essence of lemon before you put it into the moulds, also a few blanched' almonds cut into small pieces and-' mixed with it. N®. 246. LEMON PUDDING. Put half a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound of lump sugar into a sauce- pan, and keep it stirring over the fire till it boils, put it into an earthen pot and grate the rind of a large lemon into K 6204 THE COMPLEX into it, and let it stand till it' eight eggs and squeeze the j lemon on them, mix the sug ter with them, put them in a good pufF paste at the I bits of candied lemon peel upon the paste. To be bi usual manner. N*. 247. CARROT PUD » WASH and scrape your c boil them till quite soft, in a tity of water, take off the oi grate a quarter of a pound of part of the carrots, add to of a pound of clarified buttei well beat, and sugar and your taste, bake it in a dish paste at the bottom, add caiK or lemon peel.CONFECTIONER. 205 N*. 248. CITRON PUDDING. •«====»• Boil some Windsor beans quite soft, take off the skins, and beat a quarter of a pound in a mortar till quite fine, then add a quarter of a pound of clari- fied butter, four eggs, well beat, and sugar and brandy to your taste, put a puff paste in the dish and a good quantity of citron, cut in long bits, and laid upon the paste, put the pudding into a dish and bake it in a moderate oven. N". 249. rice cake. •<U===S)* One pound of rice flower, three quar- ters of a pound of lump sugar, beat and sifted, nine eggs, and one tea spoonful of essence of lemon, beat the egg5 before206 THE COMPLE1 you mix it, then put in the clients and beat it half an it in a quick oven: it is fi soon as it is cold, and is new. N®. 250. RICE CHEESE •d—— S teep a quarter of a pounc rice in milk over the fire til: soft, put it into an earthen p a quarter of a pound of bi stirring it till the butter is me it close and let it stand till day, then add a quarter of j currants washed and dried t three eggs well beat, two t£ fuls of ratafia, or brandy, and nutmeg to your taste, your patty pans with puflP p bottom.207 CONFECTIONER. N, B. Be careful not to have more milk than the rice requires, if it is. too thin the currants will sink to the bottom. TFIE END.,5* : * ~ j, - 4 ■ . -ar •*-•. - *■—- t trt ■i N[ 209 ] INDEX. A PAGE Almonds, the way to blanch 32 • burnt, red - 67 burnt, white - 68 Almond paste - - - 71 fagots - 40 cake, a small fine - 45 Anniseed - - - 198 Apple cheese - 202 B Biscuits, fine Savoy - 1 fine spunge - 3 orange heart - 4INDEX. 210 Biscuits, Naples syringe robe de chambre common Savoy sweatmeat monkey spice — toad in a hole millefruit- - masapan judges ■ Yarmouth king’s : chocolate Italian water lemon ratafia orange filbert — pistachio nuts orange flower • fresh apricdf"21t INDEX. PAGE Biscuits, fresh Barberry ' - 43 fresh damson, or refined cheese - - - 44 Blomonge - - - - 82 C Cakes, Queen - - - 19 Water, with carraway seeds 25 fine Shrewsbury - 30 fine ginger - - 41 rasberry - - - 90 Seville orange paste - 91 a small fine almond - 45 a large rich two guinea 46 a small rich seed - 47 a small rich plumb - 48. Comfits, carraway of all sorts 95 cardamom - - 96 « Crocont, carimcl ^ - - 97 Conella or CinnainR - - 199 Coffee - - - - 199 Chocolate - 200212 INDEX. Carrot Pudding Citron Pudding D D Rops, bergamot ■ black currant ■ chocolate ■ damson Seville orange lemon orange peppermint — violet barley sugar DRIED FRUITS. D RiED damsons Dried, mogul plumbs green orange plumbs - ■ green gages-21S INDEX, PAGE Dried, pears, or candied - 185 cherries, sweet - - 186 cherries, not sweet - 187 ■ apricot chips - - 187 orange or lemon chips 188 angelica knots - - 188 barberries in bunches - 189 lemon peels, or candied 190 cucumbers - - 191 green apricots - - 191 apricots full grown - 192 grapes in bunches - 192 pine apple chips - -193 cedraties, whole or in quar- , ters - - - - 193 paste knots, red or white 194 Damson cheese - - - 201 E Essence, cedraty - - 102 lemon - - 103 —- orange - - 103INDEX. 214. F Fagots, fine almond Floating island Filberts, burnt, white J ~ Jumbles, Seville orange Jelly, currant, red and whi rasberry, for ices • apple - - - • hartshorn calves foot black currant goosberry Jam, rasberry apricot strawberry barberry215 INDEX. PAGE Jam, peach - - 80 plumb - - - - 8y I IcEiNG, for a rich cake - 100 Icecream, barberry - - 112 rasberry - - 113 ^ strawberry - - 114 apricot - - 114 — pine apple - 115 currant - - 115 pistachio - - 116 biscuit - - - 117 plain ' - - - 117 ^— brown bread - 118 royal - - - 118 gbrger - - 119 fresh strawberry - 119 fresh rasberry - 120 fresh apricot - 120 coffee - - - 120216 INDEX. Ice cream, chocolate Seville orange lemon China orange burnt filbert — burnt millefruit fresh currant cedraty burnt almonds Parmasan cheese damson prunello peach black currant cherry L Lemonade Orangeade Lemon puddingINDEX. 217 M PAGE M ACCAROONs, French - 33 English - - 34 Merings, in the form of eggs - 69 Millefruit, rock candy - ' - 92 N ' Nuts, fine sweetmeat ginger- bread - - 27 I O / Orgeat - - iii syrup - - 73 paste - - 72INDEX. ‘218 P Prawlongs, lemon —; orange ■ ■ ■ — pistachio, re pistachio, w burnt filbert orange fiow' Paste, almond - orgeat Perfetto amore TO PRESERVE FRUITS IE •<t=;==^ Preserved apricots in bra Preserved peaches ditto - — morella cherries mogul plumbs inINDEX. 219 PAGE Preserved green gages, ditto 143 green orange plumbs, do 143 grapes ditto - 144 TO PRESERVE SWEETMEATS, WET. •<t===^ To preser\'e green apricots, wet 145- To preserve apricots ripe, ditto - 147 • pine apple chips, ditto 148 angelica, ditto - 150 — barberries in sprigs, do. 151 — rasberries,whole, ditto 152 currants in bunches, whole, ditto - 153 cedraties, whole, ditto 154 cherries, sweet in syrup 155. cherries, not sweet,, wet or dry - - 15G cucumbers and girkins, wet 158INDEX. 220 To preserve comport golden ditto comport French white, ditto comport French red, ditto damsons whole c grapes in bunche; goosberries in th of hops, ditto green goosberries. lemons whole, W( — Seville orange, d orange peels, ditt orange chips, ditt lemon chips, dittc lemon peels, dittc ■ pears, ditto ■ green orange plui ditto — mogul plumbs, w ■ pine apples whole a small yellow plu:221 INDEX. PAGE To preserve strawberries whole ditto 180 apricot chips, ditto 181 green gages, ditto 181 11 Husks, French - - 26 Rice cake - ^ 205 Rice cheese cakes - 206 S Syrup, orgeat - 1 73 lemon - - 73 — orange - - 74 — Seville orange - 75 pine apple - 76 capillaire - 76 Sugar, rock, of all colours - 93 — barley - - 94 to clarify for sweetmeats 101222 INDEX. ' T Turtulongs, fine, for bn Trifle, a whip for W Wafers, lemon - ■■ barberiy orange bergamot violet peppermint Water, currant, made of jel Water, fresh currant cedraty rasberry, of jam fresh rasberry bergamot apricotINDEX. 225 PAGE Water, strawberry, of jam - 108 fresh strawberry - 109 barberry - 109 peach - - 110 pear - - 110 cherry - 111 Water ice, barberry - - 128 rasberry - 129 strawberry - 129 —: apricot - 130 pineapple - 130 • chocolate - 131 Seville orange - 131 -— China orange - 131 ^ lemon - 132 punch - 132 peach - - 133 currant - - 133 fresh currant - 133 fresh rasberry - 134 damson - 134 — prunelk) ■■ 134INDEX. , Water ice, tlack currant grape pear millefrult — bergamot cedraty fresh strawberry Whip syllabub, everlasting in glasses THE END. y. Smeeton, Printer, Sf. MartiBOOKS PUBLISHED BY MATHEWS AND LEIGH. Brown’s Self-interpreting Bible, 2 vol. 4to. third edition, £3. IOj. calf, lettered. N. B. I'his valuable Work is earneftly recom- mended for the Ufe of Families: the Notes are univerfally approved for their pious and practical tendency, and the Marginal References arc far fiiperior to any Work of the kind. The Book is printed in a fiiperior liyle, on a large letter call for the purpofe, and no expence lias been fpared to render it the moll ufefiil Family Bible ever publilhed. Several po- pular divines of the prefent day have been pleafedto give their public Approbation of it. An Inquiry after Happinefs, as it rcfpeiSfs us here and hereafter, by R. Lucas, D. D. > Prebendary of Weftminfter, 2 vol. 8vo. new edition, l4r. boards./ BOOKS PUBLISHED BY MATHEV Robinfon’s Scripture Charadlers Hiftory of the Principal Cl tioned in the Old and New fifth edition, juft publiftied, <£l. I2s. boards. Milner’s Sermons and Life, cc Dean of Carlifle, third edition 8s. boards. The Life of Milner, fold feparati A Poetical Verfion of the Foi figned to render familiar, the of all Subjedls, the Evident Revelation, and to enforce tl tained in the beft of Books, tl ment; by R. Darling, Efq. pri wove paper, large 4to. \2s. b Newton’s (Rev. John)Chriftian 2s. 6t/. fewed. Chriftian Hufbandry, or Com Chriftian in his Field or Garde Walker’s (of Truro) Chrift the ‘ bound. Boftwick on Infant Baptifm, 6a Janeway’s Token for Children the only complete edition e ■with a Frontispiece, 2s. boutBOOKS POBLISHED BY MATHEWS AND LEIGH. Deep Things of God, or Experimental Remarks and Meditations, by Sir Richard Hill, Bart. 3l. Qd. bound. Zimmerman on the excellency of the Know- ledge of Jefus Chrift, &c. price Si. 6d. Extraordinary Interpofition of Providence in the Prefervation of Three Kings, by the Rev. T. Haweis, LL-B. Price 3r. bound. Brown’s Sunday Thoughts, 2s. 6d. bound. The Plalms of David, feledied from various verfions, and adapted for Public Worfliip, by the Rev. R. Cecil, 2s. bound. Adams’s PrivateThroughrs, 4r. bound. Lord Bacon’s Works, 10 vol. <£4. boards. Brown’s Sele£f Remains, fine paper, 4s. bound. Baxter’s Saints’ everlafiing Reft, abridged by Fawcett, 3s. 6d. bound Carr’s (Rev. G.) Sermons, 8i. bound. rjavcl’s Works complete, 6 vol. 8vo. new edition, £2. 2s. boards. Hervey’s Works, complete, 6 vol. l2mo. £l. 4s. bound and lettered. t This edition is the cheapest that is published. Crifp’s Sermons, 2 vol. fine paper, I8r. bound. Ditto, common paper, 13j. bound. Mafon’s Sabbath Meditations, defigned to fup- prefs the Profanation of the Lord’s Day, &c. 2 vol. 6;. bound. ' •BOOKS PUBLISHED BY MATHEWS Mafon on the Importance of Self 3j. bound. Ronialne’s Difcourfes on the Law 7s. bound. on Solomon’s Song, 6s The Pofthumous Works of the Toplady, 6s. boards, 7j. neat lettered. Croxall’s Efop’s Fables, Ss- 6/i. br Dodfley’s Efop’s Fables, 3r. b Cruden’s Concordance to the C Teilament,’ with a fine portra the author, of I. 1 1j. 6^. calf, 1( Johnfon’s Dictionary, pocket £ bound. Serle’s Chriflian Remembrancer, Middleton’s Biographia EvUngellc; fewed, of2. Milner’s Church Hiflory, vol. 1, Ditto, vol. 4 part 1, boa Rogers on the Liturgy, 2 vol. boa Serle’s Horae Solitariae, 2 vol. 8vo. Simeon’s Hundred Skeletons of S fcw’cd.V i-x ' '' ' • ■;• E, ' ^ .■ - • * 4 , ., ■ r~ 7 • If. ^-V?tl.» » ■8! BOOKS r«blis1ic{( by MATHr.AV^anti LEia^i 7 8, Strand, Md S*id by the BeobfeHtrt in Town and Ccuntry. W:. B I- IDDULPH on the Liturgy, ^vo!. fewer!. DoridrHge’* Work* complete, 13 vol. 16*. board*. —*-■ - — Family ExpoOtor, G \oI. ^3. 3s. boards. Wi- — Le^uces, S? vol. 8ro. 13*. boerd*. — Mifecllanjcous Works, 5^ol,£2, boerd*. 'y\ - ,iife ato t iVvgrer*, 3s. 6d. b ..und. •.-Life of C'^^Gardiner, 3s. Jd. uound. — Sermon* to Young People, 2i. bouird. Etidcnce* of ^hiii^wnHjr, Is. bifUn^i^ = -Vren Hyh»»%, -2^ bound. i Colling«(ood's Cookery, 6*. bound. ' 5 JepksV M^iUliOns, 2 vol. 11*. bouwd. I Reaches itey to open Scripture Metaphor*, folio, if2- e leltcred. ' '■h:/ ^ Mufon’s Codta||r r*. bound. % 4»X)gilvy'» Gopct§T Itlr.crary, or new* f ,u 6ii. "* # ^ •. Tb L.0 iif^Ton, lefli' 4-' t .rJtdg* »turc with f j'table byth^j|i. utb f ■e* A," -V^. Rev., John Nck lop, ^f¥n l*.^i- in «fe ^ by Uie Kcv.> Matthew f The Pmoirfes of God, p Sbrrworv prepcl,. .. —^ ^ V Ht-nry, o*v lb«'7th of Msy^. 1710, lalel;. difcovercd iit ^laiiu-r^ e j ferip^, _a!cf.»» v'w beiure puMi^d, ^ King’* Tablfe* of Intcreift, Roy, boarrl.*., 11- X t'u eon.filfte wtiK of the kind ri<a Tables flKwin" *: <• r.unu>er ot Pnj-* belWt*r!> any tn-pjsoxk^t*, di.-.. ’>.V - •at .vu .1/ adapted frtr tnd •MdtS' 4^ oft/rvbfcs, by 1 4 ■ not enp^-di -la of Bumms, a «v .rtp.i.tio4: t - the j. King, 3s. 6d. ^ Btddulph on Conlormity lo tbb WurM, Ss. 61I k Bibles and t onunon Prayer P.i oH's; a tery laige ACTorhndtit, *f f J various Sives and bindings, are conftan'ly kept for Sale, «J Hooks in every braitcb of jLlteiatiire.