UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: CGO0-1 ( Theodore cis ) ilassmark fDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21530348_0002ARTISTICALLY SERVED ICES. 1. Asparagus Ice flavoured, with Asparagus Flavouring. 2. Violet Ice flavoured with Violet Flavouring, and studded with Crystallized Violets. 5 Strawberry, Lemon, Raspberry, 3. Bunches of Roses, Violets, Primroses, Carnations, Orange Blossoms dressed with Ivy Leaves. 4. Three different Roses, also flavoured as Flowers. Chocolate, Cafe au Lait, Orange. ■ — -THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF A COMPLETE DICTIONARY OF ALL PERTAINING TO THE ART OF Cookery and Table Seryice. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD FURNISS, GEORGE CRUIKSHANK, IV. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “ The Chef's Memoranda," “Plain mid Artistic Cookery," “Little-known Foods," “Ice and Ice-Making," “ The Manufacture of British Wines, &S!c.," “Ball Suppers and their Service," “ Wine Adulteration," “ Savoury Suppers," “ Muffins and Crumpets,” “ Sandwiches," “American Drinks,” “ Confectionery! “Notes on Curries," “ Loving-Cups," “Antiquity of Cheese," “ Good Coffee,” “ Lives of Famous Cooks," and numerous other Serial and Special Papers in Technical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets ; Sec. of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); And, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. Corblet, Chef de Cuisine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887; 1st Gold Medal of ist Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. Fiorillo, Chef de Cuisine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal. 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cuisine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Harewood ; Silver Medal,Exposition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cuisine to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889 ; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cuisine, Great Eastern Hotel, London. C. WiLLlN, Chef de Cuisine, late of the Grand Hotel Bristol ; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division II.—Cak to Cro. LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL. Sole Agent: A. W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C.LONDON : A. BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C.241 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Lady Cake.—(1) Mix well together lib. of caster sugar, Jib. of flour, Jib. of butter, and the whites of fourteen eggs. Flavour with 2 drops of oil of bitter almond, and bake on a buttered tin. (2) Work to a cream lib. of caster sugar and Jib. of butter. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar in Jib. of flour and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a gill of sweet milk. Beat all together into a stiff paste and bake in a greased mould. Two table-spoonfuls of whisky or rum is an improvement. (3) Beat 6oz. of butter to a cream ; add gradually to it lib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of almond, 1 teacupful of milk, the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and lib. of flour, in which mix 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder. Mix all well together, and bake in a greased tin, and when cold cover with sugar icing. Lafayette Cakes.—Mix together Jib. of butter, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of flour, six eggs, and Joz. of ammonia salt in powder; bake in round flat tins about Jin. deep, or drop some of the paste on white paper and spread it out into a round thin Cake. Bake these in a moderate oven on baking-sheets. When done, take them off the paper, spread some jam on two of them, and put three together. Trim round the edges with a knife, and cut them into four, six, or eight parts, according to fancy. Layer Cake.—Make lib. of puff paste, nine turns, and roll it out about Jin. thick ; with a round tin cutter 5in. in diameter cut ten rounds out of the paste, sprinkle a little cold water over two baking-sheets, put the rounds of paste on them, and sprinkle them also with water ; sift a little rather coarsely- ground sugar over them, bake in a moderate oven till very crisp, but keep them as white as possible. When cooked, put them on a dish, one above the other, masked alternately with currant jolly, apricot and orange marmalade. Mask the whole, when built up, with apricot marmalade, ornament the top with any fresh fruits that happen to be in season, sprinkle finely-chopped pistachios round about, decorate with icing, and serve. See Fig. 279. Lead Cake.—Put into a basin 2qts. of flour, loz. of salt, 2Joz. of sugar, 21b. of butter, and mix well together ; add twelve eggs, well beaten, mix again, roll the paste out on a wooden slab three times, leave it for about half-an-hour, spread over Jib. of butter, roll it out four times, and fold into a thick Cake. Cut out the edges with a tin cutter, and with a fork prick the top all over. Brush over with whipped yolks of eggs, and bake in a moderate oven for an-liour- and-a-half. Leaf Cake.—Blanch and pound Jib. of sweet almonds with half-a-dozen bitter ones; rub the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs until quite smooth. Bub fib. of butter in ljlb. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in the above ingredients with Jib. of caster sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to make a consistent paste. Work the mixture thoroughly, Ihen Cakes—continued. lay it on a paste-board over which some flour has been sifted, divide into six equal portions, and roll them out very thin. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the Cakes on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake a light yellow in a slow oven. When cooked, slip one of the Cakes off the baking-sheet on to a dish, mask it with a coating of any kind of preserve, put another Cake on the top of that, coat that also with preserve, and so on until the last Cake is on the top. Mask the top of the last Cake with the finest white sugar icing, trim all evenly round the edges with a sharp knife, and serve when the icing is quite dry. Lee Cake.—Weigh twelve eggs, beat them well, then mix with them their weight in sugar and half their weight in flour; when the above mixture is quite smooth, turn it into shallow Cake-tins, in layers about lin. in thickness, and bake them. Squeeze the juice of five oranges and three lemons, together with their pulp, into 21b. of caster sugar, and work it till quite smooth. When cooked, take the Cakes out of the pans, and mask them with the mixture in the same way as iced Cakes are done, putting one above the other on a dish till the whole of the sugar is used up. Spread a layer of it on the top and sides, and serve. Leigditon Cake.—Mix together lib. of butter, 1 pint of cream, 21b. of caster sugar, 4 pints of flour, with 2 teaspoonfuls of fresh yeast mixed in, 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of almonds, and the whites of twelve eggs. Put in a greased tin and bake. Leopard Cake.—Cream Jib. of butter; add Jib. of moist sugar gradually, then the yolks of three eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon, vanilla, or any other kind of flavouring, and 1 salt- spoonful of powdered mace. Put J teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda into lib. of pastry-flour, saving a table-spoonful or so of it, lest the Cake be too stiff. If all be used, add the flour and 1 teacupful of milk alternately, a little at a time, then the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Mix all well together, colour a fourth of the dough with grated chocolate, and put it in the pan in spots. Bake from forty to fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Light Cake. — Put 31b. of sifted flour on to a board or table and with one-fourth of it, ljoz. of yeast, and 1 breakfast- cupful of cold w'ater, form a sponge and set to rise. Make a bay in the remainder of the flour, and work in loz. of salt, 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, the yolks of twenty-four eggs and the whites of twelve, and 21b. of butter. Mix the paste thoroughly, then work in the sponge, add a few table-spoonfuls of well-whipped cream, to make the paste as smooth as possible, put the whole into a well-buttered fluted mould, and let it rise in a warm temperature until it is double its original height; put it at once into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Pull the Cake out to see if it is light and flexible, and then bake again for half-an-hour, or until dark and firm. Turn it out when ready, and serve either hot or cold as required. The Cake I should be of a darkish colour. See Fig. 280. 2 B242 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cakes—continued. (3) Rub into Jib. of fine flour £lb. of butter; when thoroughly mixed add ilb. of moist sugar, £lb. of currants, ^lb. of ground rice, £oz. of caraway-seeds, loz. of candied lemon-peel cut in thin slices, half a grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. When thoroughly mixed, dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J pint of boiling milk. When cold beat up three eggs and stir in with the milk, and make the Cake-dough with it. Butter a Cake-tin, tie buttered paper round the outside, pour the Cake mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Small.—Mix in lib. of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, rub in jib. of butter, and add Jib. of caster eugar, a little ground caraway-seed, cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel. Beat in \ pint of milk, two eggs, and stir in with the above, making it to a dough; butter some small tins, pour the mixture in, and bake in a hot oven. (5) Mix with £ quartern of bakers’ dough 2oz. of butter, |lb. of moist sugar, ^lb. of currants cleaned and dried, a little thinly-sliced candied lemon-peel, and half a grated nutmeg. Let it rise in a warm place, with a cloth over the top. Butter some Cake-tins, knead the dough well, three- quarter fill the tins with it, and leave for an hour to rise. Bake for an hour or so in a moderate oven. (6) Rub into lib. of flour jib. of beef dripping; add 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt. Wash and dry 6oz. of currants and add to the flour with |lb. of moist sugar, \oz. of caraway-seeds, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat two eggs with | pint of milk, and mix the Cake. Bake about one-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oveu. (7) Mix together in a large bowl 3 teacupfuls of flour, 3oz. of butter, and 1 teacupful of sugar; rub well together with the hand, cut loz. of candied orange-peel into small pieces and add it together with 2 teacupfuls of washed and dried currants. Put £ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda on a plate, and with the back of a spoon crush out all the lumps and rub it quite smooth; add this with 1 saltspoonful of salt to the other ingredients in the basin, and mix it in. Beat up two eggs and mix with them a teacupful of butter- milk. Now dip a Cake-tin into boiling water, dry it thoroughly, and line with buttered paper. Mix the eggs and butter-milk thoroughly and quickly with tho dry ingredients, put the Cake into the tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven for an- hour-and-a-quarter. (8) Put into a basin ljlb. of flour, £lb. of moist sugar, and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of baking-powder; rub in with the hands 6oz. of butter, and mix in ^lb. of washed and dried currants. Beat up three eggs with 5 pint of milk and 7 or 8 drops of essence of lemon; with this, mix and beat in the flour mixture in the basin, working it to a dough. Put it into a buttered tin and bake at once. Cakes—continued. Lightning Cake.—Warm and beat 6oz. of butter until creamy, then mix with it 6oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, 7oz. of finely-sifted flour, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the mixture briskly for twenty minutes. Thickly butter the interior of a round Cake- tin, strew baked breadcrumbs over it, shaking out any super- fluity; pour in the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. Turn the Cake out of the mould while warm. Little German Cakes.—Prepare a sponge with |oz. of yeast, a little cream, and about 3oz. of flour, and set it to rise; then work it into 9oz. more flour, 2oz. of pounded loaf sugar, ioz. of salt, the whites of two eggs and the yolks of five, together with -Jib. of warmed butter. Divide this paste into twelve parts, put them into well-buttered moulds, and bake, having previously let them rise. Take the Cakes out when of a light red colour, cut them into slices, sprinkle over with caster sugar, replace in their original position, and serve hot or cold as desired. Loaf Cake.— (1) Put in a bowl 1 Jib. of flour, fib. of moist sugar, and loz. of caraway-seeds ; beat thoroughly eight eggs, and put in with the flour. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of yeast in 2 table-spoonfuls of milk-and-water, and mix with the rest. Set in a warm place for a short time to rise, then mould it and put in a buttered tin. Bake for about two hours in a steady oven. (2) Cream Jib. of fresh butter by warming before the fire, and working with the hand or a wooden spoon. Beat six eggs and mix with the butter and Jib. of moist sugar; when thoroughly mixed, work in lib. of flour, half the grated rind of a lemon, 3 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, 1 teaspoonful of dis- solved ammonia salt, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 1 grated nutmeg, and 1 teacupful of milk. When thoroughly beaten, pour into a Cake-tin lined with buttered paper, and bake for two hours in a steady oven. Lord Mayor’s Cakes.—Beat together for fifteen minutes in a basin set in a larger basin of hot water eight eggs and lib. of caster sugar; when quite thick, add lib. of flour and sprinkle in a few caraway-seeds. Put the mixture into a biscuit-bag; have some pieces of paper cut round, and drop 1 table-spoonful of the mixture on each piece, sift caraway- seeds or sugar on the tops, put them on baking-sheets, and bake in a hot oven. When done, remove the papers and stick the Cakes together in pairs, with white of egg and sugar mixed. Louvernaise Cakes.—Prepare the paste as for Richelieu Cake, and when ready have a square Cake-tin covered all over with paper. Spread the paste over lin. thick with a knife, and put it in a moderate oven for eighteen or twenty minutes. Take it out, and when cool lay the Cake on a table, detach the paper, sprinkle the surface freely with powdered sugar, and cut it into any shaped pieces desired. Dress on a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Love Cakes.—Mix with ljlb. of flour four eggs beaten with 1 teacupful of yeast and 5 pint of warm milk; work into a dough, add gradually lib. of butter, knead thoroughly, and leave it one hour to rise. Mix with it Jib. of caster sugar. Butter small Cake-pans and put the mixture in. Place thin slices of candied lemon- and orange-peel on the top, and bake in a quick oven. Lunch. Cakes.—(1) Large.—Put into a basin 21b. of flour mixed up with Jib. of moist sugar; make a hollow in the centre, put in 1 table-spoonful of thick and not bitter yeast, add J break- fast-cupful of warm milk, not hot enough to scald the yeast, stir in a little of the flour, and let it rise for about forty-five minutes. Add the other f breakfast-cupful of milk warmed sufficiently to dissolve Jib. of butter, stir in ljlb. of well- washed currants, a small quantity of chopped peel, 1 tea- spoonful of ground allspice, and the grated rind of a lemon. Turn the preparation into a well-buttered hoop or tin, set it to rise in a warm place, and afterwards bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out when done, and use cold. (2) Prepare a batter with 21b. of flour, 4oz. of lard, -Jib. each of sugar and well-washed currants, loz. each of cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda, adding sufficient milk to form a dough. Three-parts fill some buttered sponge-cake tins, brush the Cakes over with egg, dust over with sifted sugar, bake in a moderate oven, and use as desired. Luster Cake (German).—Dissolve 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast in J pint of warm milk, and mix it in gradually with Jib. of flour; work the dough well, cover it with a cloth, and set in a warm place to rise. Blanch and pound 4oz. of sweet almonds and a few bitter ones. Warm and beat lib. of butter until creamy with 6oz. of caster sugar, and beat in eighteen eggs, one at the time ; add the almonds, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix in gradually with the beaten eggs lib. of flour, and when quite smooth work in the sponge. Butter a Cake-tin, pour in the mixture, which should only come to half the height of the tin, and leave it in a warm place to rise again. Bake in a moderate oven; it will take an hour to cook. Macdonald Cakes.—Rub 6oz. of butter into -Jib. of pastry- flour ; add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teacupful of cornflour, 3 teacupfuls of sugar, and 1 toaspoonful of essence of lemon or other flavour- ing. Mix well together and make it into a stiff dough with the whites and yolks of four eggs beaten separately and sufficient milk. Bake in two shallow tins, previously greased, in a moderate oven. Madeira Cakes.—(1) Large.—Break three eggs into a basin and beat them up for two minutes ; then add the grated rind of a lemon. Dissolve 6oz. of loaf sugar in a stewpan with J gill of water. Bring this to the boil, and then, when boiling, add it to the eggs. Put this basin into another larger one than that in which the eggs, &c., are, and partly fill it with boiling water, so that the temperature of the batter may, while For details respecting Culinary Processes, Xftensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. UNSVERSin LiSRAkY : rrnc243 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respective/ Culinary Processes Utensils Cakes—continued. Cakes—continued. being made, remain permanent, or not cool below 90deg. Fahr. Change the water in the outer basin every few minutes. Beat the eggs and sugar together for a-quarter-of-an-hour, or until a very thick batter is made, and then let it stand for a few minutes. Whisk it again, and should there bo no settling of the eggs add 4oz. or 5oz. of warmed finely-sifted flour. Sift it in lightly and mix well. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, warm it very slowly so that it will not oil, and then pour the batter into it, beating while so doing. Take a mould, line it with buttered paper, and sift a little sugar over it; pour in the Cake mixture to about half way up the mould, and bake in a hot oven for a-quarter-of-an- hour, but care must be taken not to let the outside brown. When it has been in the time stated draw it to the door of the oven, sift a little sugar over, and place some large slices of citron-peel on top. Put it back in its original place in the oven, shut the door, and bake again, making the time for baking altogether about thirty-five minutes. Take it out of the tin when done, and let it stand upon a sieve to cool. (2) Slightly warm 6oz. of butter, then beat it to a white cream with 6oz. of caster sugar, using a wooden spoon for the purpose. Beat five eggs for ten minutes, then mix them with the sugar and butter, and beat the whole thoroughly together. Sift 8oz. of the best wheaten-flour in with the mixture, mix it well, then add a few drops of essence of almonds and beat it for five minutes longer. Line the bottom and sides of a Cake-tin with strips of buttered paper, allowing the paper to come Jin. above the edge of the tin ; pour in the batter, put a broad strip of citron-peel on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Beat 5oz. of butter and 5oz. of sugar to a cream in a warm basin; then add a little grated lemon-peel and four eggs, one at a time, and sift in sufficient flour to make a light batter. Mix well together, and pour the mixture into a buttered baking-tin; smooth the top over with a knife, and lay a few slices of citron on the top. Put it into a moderate oven, and bake for forty minutes. (4) Break four eggs into a large basin and whisk them well; then add gradually 6oz. of caster sugar, 6oz. of flour, Jib. of butter, warmed enough to melt but not to oil it, the grated rind of a lemon, and lastly J teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda. Beat all well together, and bake for an hour in a tin lined with buttered paper. The ingredients must be added in the order given, and the butter thoroughly incorporated before the next is added. (5) Scotch Mode.—Work ljlb. of fresh butter on a marble slab to extract the water, then put it into a basin, warm slightly, taking care not to let it oil, and work it with the hand to a cream. Thoroughly mix lflb. of caster sugar with the butter, then add, one or two at the time, twenty eggs, working the mixture well after each addition. Beat the mixture till it begins to rise in the pan, then sift in gradually 2Jlb. of flour in which has been mixed a small pinch each of tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda. Lino a Cake-tin with buttered paper, allowing it to rise a little above the edge of the tin, then pour in the batter, and bake in a slow oven. (6) Small.—Work lflb. of butter on a marble slab to extract the water, then put it into a basin, warm it slightly, taking care not to let it oil, then beat it till creamy with 21b. of caster sugar. Mix in gradually with the butter and sugar twenty-four eggs, adding them only one or two at the time, and beating well after each addition. When the mixture begins to rise in the pan, sift in 21b. of flour and lib. of patent flour; work it till quite smooth. Line some small tins with sheets of buttered paper, allowing the paper to rise a little above the edge of the tins ; three-parts fill with the Cake mixture, put one or two strips of citron-peel on the top of each, and bake them in a slack oven. Wken cooked, take the Cakes out of the tins, and stand them up till cold. Madeleine Cakes.—Put 9oz. of orange or lemon sugar into a saucepan on the fire, work in Jib. of flour, the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of two, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a little salt. When the paste begins to thicken, work it for a minute only. Well butter about two dozen madeleine- moulds (see Fig. 281), fill them with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake the Cakes for about twenty-five minutes, or until they are firm to the touch. Turn them out of the moulds, and serve. Madeleine Cakes a la Frintaniere.—Bub the rinds of two small lemons on a lump of sugar ; crush it very fine with a roller, mixing 3oz. of powdered sugar with it. Put 2oz. of this into a saucepan with 2oz. of sifted flour, the yolk of one egg and two whole eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and J saltspoonful of salt. Stir all together with a spatula, and after two minutes, when the paste is well mixed, stir it again for one minute only. Put the saucepan containing the preparation on a very slow fire, stir slightly to prevent it ad- hering to the bottom of the saucepan, and as soon as it becomes liquid take it off. Butter twelve small madeleine-moulds (see Fig. 281), fill them with the preparation, lay them on a baking- sheet, and place them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Eemove, let them cool, and turn them out; cut a piece from the thinnest part of the top of each to serve as a cover, and with Fig. 231. Madeleine Cake and Mould. a dessert-spoon scoop out of each a cavity lin. deep. Put into a saucepan the yolks of eight eggs, Jib. of powdered sugar, a piece of vanilla bean lin. long and split in halves, also 1 pint of sweet cream, and 6oz. of finely-grated cocoa. Mix well with the spatula for two minutes, place the pan on the hot stove, and stir constantly while heating, but under no circumstances must it boil. Bemove it from the fire, and lay the pan in a cool place on the table for thirty minutes, strain it through a sieve into a freezer, and freeze. Fill the cavity of each madeleine with this, replace the covers, lay them on a wire grating, and, with a brush, gently glaze with a glacfi il l’eau made as follows: Put into a sugar-pan loz. of granu- lated sugar with 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and let it come to the boil; remove, and add immediately 2 table- spoonfuls of strawberry-juice, mixing well together, and sprinkle over -with 3oz. of well-chopped pistachios. Glaze the Cakes with this, and place them in the oven for one minute more; dress on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Madeleine Cakes without Butter.—Put six eggs in a basin with Jib. of caster sugar and beat them until frothy, then mix in gradually 5oz. of dried and sifted flour, and grate in a small quantity of lemon- or orange-peel. Grease some small madeleine-moulds (see Fig. 281), fill them with the mixture, and bake in a slack oven. When the Cakes are cooked take them out of the moulds, and keep dry in biscuit-tins until wanted. Madeleine Cake served with Cream and Port-wine Sauce.—Put 6oz. of fresh butter into a stewpan, melt it then put in lOoz. of flour, Jib. of caster sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water. Stir the ingredients with a wooden spoon over the fire until well mixed, then move to the side and stir in six large well-beaten eggs. Thickly butter the inside of a cylinder mould, pour the mixture into it, and bake until lightly browned in a moderate oven. In the meantime prepare the following sauce : Put 1J breakfast- cupfuls of port wine into a small, lined saucepan; mix 1 tea- spoonful of arrowroot quite smooth in a little wine then stir it in with the rest, and add 1 teaspoonful of cloves and a small piece of cinnamon. Sweeten the sauce to taste with loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, turn the madeleine out of the mould on to a fancy 2 B 2244 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. disli, and strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over it. Leave the madeleine until cold, then fill the centre with thick cream that has been whipped to a stiff snow and flavoured with a few drops of orange-flower water. Serve without delay. Madison Cake.—Put lib. of butter and 1 Jib. of sugar into a bowl and beat them to a cream; add J pint of cream, twelve eggs, beaten until very thick, and 21b. of flour, adding Jib. at a time. Work well until perfectly smooth, add Joz. of powdered mace and two grated nutmegs, beating them well in; then add lib. each of currants and raisins and Jib. of citron cut into thin slices and all dredged with flour ; stir lightly without beating, pour the mixture into a pan, or pans, lined with buttered paper, smooth the surface with a knife, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out, and serve as required. Magdalen Cake.—(1) Break ten eggs into a basin and whisk them well, then add Jib. of finely-sifted sugar and beat again until the sugar is taken up. Work 6oz. of warmed butter with the hand until it forms a cream, then mix in the eggs very slowly. Dredge in Jib. of dried flour. Take 2oz. of coarsely-ground sweet almonds, and chop up 2oz. of candied orange-peel. Mix in the 2oz. of peel, butter a Cake-mould, and sprinkle the pieces of almonds over the bottom and sides. Fill the mould with the mixture, sprinkle some shreds of sweet almonds over the top, and bake for half-an-hour in a quick oven. (2) Warm 6oz. of butter, and beat it well; when it begins to look creamy beat in ten eggs, one at a time, then mix in Jib. of flour and Jib. of caster sugar; beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Thinly slice ljoz. of candied orange- peel, and mix it with the batter. Thickly butter the interior of a Cake-tin, arrange round the sides and at the bottom thin fillets of blanched and peeled sweet almonds; pour in the batter slowly so as not to disarrange the almonds, arrange a few filleted almonds on the top, and bake at once. Malaprop Cake.—Beat the yolks of four eggs in a basin, and whisk the whites in another until they are of a stiff froth. Work Jib. of butter with the hand in a warm basin until it becomes like cream, and then mix in Jib. of caster sugar. Stir well together, and add the yolks, a fourth at a time; when all are worked in, sift in lightly Jib. of dried flour, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs. Flavour according to fancy, but if essence is used it must be mixed with the cream. Grated peel, if used, should be mixed with the flour. Put the Cake in a buttered mould, and bake for an hour in a brisk oven. Manon Cakes.—Butter a baking-sheet, and spread on it some very thin puff paste; put a layer of apricot marmalade over it, brush the edge with a little egg, and put another layer of paste on the top of the marmalade. The easiest way to put on this top layer is to roll it out to the required size and then roll it rrp on the roller and lay it on. Then put some wash of egg yolks over the top and score it with a knife, so that it will cut up in strips 2in. by 4in., and mark with broad arrows along its length. These marks or cuts will let out the air from the paste and prevent bubbles or blisters. Glaze with white of egg and sugar before putting into the oven. When cold, cut them up. Manque Cake with Rum.—Warm Jib. of butter, beat it well with Jib. of caster sugar, then mix in gradually fib. of flour, Jib. of pounded sweet almonds, 1 pinch of salt, and 2 wineglassfuls of old Jamaica rum; bind the ingredients to- gether with the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and two whole ones. When well mixed, stir in very lightly the whites of the six eggs, having first well whipped them. Make a large square paper case, butter it well, pour in the biscuit mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Blanch and chop Jib. of sweet almonds, cut them into thin fillets, and dry them in a hot closet. Put the almonds into a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix them well with the whites of two eggs. When the biscuit is nearly cooked, brush the top over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then cover it with the almond mixture. Place the Cake in the oven again to finish cooking it, and slightly brown the almonds, then take it out. When cold, cut the Cake into diamonds, or any other shape preferred, and serve them on a fancy dish. Cakes—continued. Manx Cake.—Take a few lumps of sugar and rub off all the peel from half a lemon. Weigh the sugar, and add sufficient of pounded sugar to make up Jib. Put Jib. of ground rice into a basin and add the pounded sugar. Break four eggs into a basin and whisk them until, upon taking up a spoon- ful, there are no threads, which will be about half-an-hour, then put in the lumps of sugar and let them dissolve; mix all, adding slowly, with the flour. Beat together and put into a buttered tin or mould and bake for about half- an-hour. Marble Cake.—Make the light part of a marble Cake by- mixing 1 breakfast-cupful of butter rubbed in 5 breakfast- cupfuls of flour in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been already mixed with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, the whites of eight eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and beat all well together. Mix in another basin 5 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices; rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, and when quite smooth add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, the yolks of eight eggs, one whole egg, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put in a mould, in alternate layers of light and dark batter. Bake quickly, and turn out when cold. A lion or other suitable mould will answer for this Cake. Marien Cakes.—Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in lOoz. of caster sugar, the finely- grated rind of one lemon, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg. Bind the above ingredients together with six well-beaten eggs and a little milk if necessary, and work the whole well; it should form a rather stiff paste. Dust a little flour over the table, and roll the paste out on it to about lin. in thickness. Cut out the Cakes with a round tin cutter, 2in. in diameter, place them on buttered baking- sheets, ornament them on the top with small fillets of sweet almonds and well-washed and dried currants, and bake till lightly coloured in a slow oven. When the Cakes are done, detach from the tin and leave them till cold. Mazarin Cake with. Rum.—Sift lib. of flour on to a paste- board; take a quarter of it and make a sponge with Joz. of yeast (German) dissolved in a little warm water. Put the sponge in a warm place to rise. Then take the re- mainder of the flour and make a hollow in the centre and work in Jib. of melted butter, J pint of warm milk, Joz. of sugar, and a little salt. When it is made into a paste, add seven eggs, one at a time, beating the paste all the time. When the sponge has risen to double its original size, mix it into the paste. Then take a plain pudding-mould, butter it, and strew over some blanched almonds cut into thin strips. Fill up the mould half way, and when the mixture has risen so as to fill it put it in the oven and bake. When done, turn it out of the mould on to a dish and make a sauce to serve with it as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup at 30deg. into a stewpan with J pint of rum and 2oz. of finely-minced candied citron, boil it and thicken with 3oz. of butter. Cut the Cake in halves horizontally and pour half of the sauce over each, and when all the sauce is absorbed put one piece over the other to resume its previous shape. Put it on a napkin and serve. Melting1 Cake with Sabayon.—Put into a saucepan 5oz. of butter, melt it, pour into a basin, and with a wooden spoon work well until frothy ; add to it the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, one by one, and one whole eg'g; sprinkle in 5oz. of sugar, a little of which is flavoured with lemon, 5oz. of potato-flour, a little salt, and add lastly the whipped whites of four eggs. Mix well and pour it into a buttered flat mould dredged over with potato-flour. Put the mould on a baking-sheet, and bake in a slack oven. When taken out, turn it over on a dish. Put into a stewpan the yolks of seven or eight eggs, together with 6oz. of powdered sugar; mix the eggs up with the sugar and dilute them with J teacupful of white wine. Set the pan on a very slow fire, whip the liquid, without leaving, until it is quite frothy, preventing it boiling over. It must get as light as whipped whites of eggs. Pour this into the hollow of the Cake, and serve immediately. Meringue Cakes.—Make a sponge Cake of the following: Jib. of finest caster sugar and the whites of ten eggs well245 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. beaten together until the sugar is quite dissolved, then add Jib. of butter warmed to melting, 1 gill of milk, Jib. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Beat these up well and spread thinly on a greased baking-sheet. Put into a moderate oven, leaving the door open, and bake. A board should be placed under the tin so that the bottom of the Cake will not bake too quickly. When nearly done cut into squares and cover each one with meringue or icing made stiff. Set back in the oven for a few minutes to finish, and serve. Sifted sugar may also be sprinkled over the icing before returning to the oven to finish baking. Merry Christmas Cake.—Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of cornflour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter. When quite smooth, beat in the whites of eight eggs and 1 teacupful of milk. Bake in flat Cake-tins. When done, spread icing with grated cocoa-nut between the layers, on the top, and round the sides. Milan Cakes.—(1) Large.—Take lib. of flour, Jib. of butter, 41b. of powdered sugar, and four eggs. Sift the flour on the table. Make a hollow in the centre, and fill it with the sugar and butter and the grated rind of a lemon; knead well the butter and sugar for three minutes, add the eggs, one at a time, and work in the flour slowly. Let it rest after mixing for about half-an-hour in a cool place. Then roll it out about Jin. thick, cut out six pieces with a round Cake-cutter, glaze the surfaces with beaten egg and milk, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cold, dress on a dessert-disli with a folded napkin, and serve. Keep the rest of the paste for further use, as it will remain sweet and fresh for two or three days. (2) Bub Jib. of butter in lib. of flour until smooth, then mix with it Jib. of sugar and a pinch of salt. Beat two eggs with J wineglassful of rum, and mix them with the above ingredients, also sufficient cold water to make a stiff dough. Knead the mixture thoroughly ; dredge flour over a paste- board, and roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the dough on it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, sift caster sugar over it, and bake in a brisk oven. Leave the Cake until cold, then cut it into halves; spread a layer of any kind of preserve over one half, and put the other half over it. Put the Cake on a fancy dish and serve. (3) Small.—Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it with C table- spoonfuls of caster sugar until creamy; then mix in 4 wineglaFS- ful of brandy, one beaten egg, and Jib. of flour. Work the mixture until all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated and then roll it out as thinly as possible on a floured table. Cut the paste into small diamond-shaped Cakes, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake in a brisk oven. (4) Put Jib. of caster sugar into a basin with the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, and whip them well. When it begins to froth, add 2 table-spoonfuls of pounded and blanched almonds, passed through a fine sieve, Jib. of warmed butter, and work it for three minutes ; then add Jib. of flour and 4 table-spoonfuls of minced, candied, citron-peel. Make the paste stiff, and then take it out with a spoon in pieces about the size of a walnut; place them on a table slightly floured, roll in the hand until round, and then put them, one by one, on to a slightly-greased baking-sheet, keeping them a little way apart. Put them in a moderate oven and bake for fourteen or fifteen minutes. The quantity of paste as made above will make two dozen Cakes. Mille-Feuilles Cake.—(1) Boll out 2Jlb. of rich puff paste, cut it into sixteen pieces, mark them in the centre where a piece is to be removed, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when ready, remove the centres, fill them with any kind of jam, replace the centres, pile the pieces one on top of another, and the Cake is ready for serving. (2) Bavarian.—Take about lib. or ljlb. of the trimmings of puff paste, and divide it in twelve pieces about the size of an egg ; roll these out into rounds, and put them on baking- tins. Trim the rounds with the top of a charlotte-mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, remove them from the oven, and put another baking-sheet, with a very light weight on the top, to keep them level whilst cooling. Let them get Cakes—continued. quite cold, and then mask them on top one by one with a layer of cream, flavoured with vanilla. Cut each one in quarters, and put them evenly and regularly one over the other. When all are done, mask the Cake with a layer of cream, sprinkle over with chopped pistachios, and put on the ice for thirty minutes. Modena Cake.—Take Goz. of butter and work until it be- comes like a cream, then rub it into Jib. of flour and Jib. of sugar. Whisk six eggs for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and mix the flour and sugar gradually witli the eggs, then add a little grated lemon-peel and some candied lemon-peel, cut into thin slices, and finally mix in about J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Line a tin with buttered paper, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Montblanc Cake.—Take a deep flawn-circle, and line it with some tartlet-paste. Bomove the circle and then pinch the paste on the top as well as against its outer sides, wrap these round with a strip of paper and sew them with thread. Cover the inside of the paste, and the bottom and outside, with buttered paper; then fill up the hollow with flour in order to bake the paste firm. When the flawn is taken out of the oven, take off the paper, remove the flour, and mask the bottom and sides with a rather thick layer of apricot marmalade, and spread over a layer of light frangipane perfumed with orange. Then take fifteen ordinary choux of a round shape and moderately large size; open them from below, and fill the cavity with a Bavarian cream, flavoured with strawberries and thickened on ice. Close these, and dip them one at a time into cooked vanilla icing sugar; lot them drain a little, and then put them at once into the flawn-case. Build up in the shape of a pyramid (see Big. 282), and when the icing is cold the choux should have adhered. Cut pieces of angelica into points, and set between the choux. Montmorency Cake.—Make a sponge of 4oz. of sifted flour and Joz. of yeast, with 1 pint of warm water; put it in a warm place to rise. Then take Jib. of flour, also sifted, rub into it Jib. of warmed butter, make a hole or bay in the centre, and in it put J teacupful of water, ten eggs, and Joz. of pounded sugar. Mix all these well together, and work into a paste, adding five more eggs, one at a time. Allow the sponge to rise to twice its original bulk, and then mix it with the paste together with Jib. of dried cherries, quartered. Half fill a pudding-basin (that has been buttered) with the paste, and when it llias risen to the top of the basin put in a moderate oven and bake. When done, turn it out and put it on a cloth. Boil 1 pint of kirschenwasser with 1 pint of syrup, and serve in a boat with the Cake. Montrose Cake.— Break twelve eggs into a basin and whisk them well for ten minutes, then add a little grated nutmeg, J wineglassful of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. Have ready lib. of butter beaten to a cream and mixed with lib. of caster sugar. Beat it all well up for about twenty minutes, and sift in lib. of flour and Jib. of currants. Put in a buttered tin, and bake. Mountain Cake.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, then rub in 1 breakfast-cupful of butter ; when quite246 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. dc., referred to see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Cakes—continued. smooth, beat in the whites of eight eggs and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix thoroughly and flavour with lemon. Turn the mixture into shallow baking-tins well buttered, and bake. When cold, ice each Cake over, and cover them with jelly. Build up into one large Cake and ice over top. Mousseline Cake.—Prepare a Cake mixture as follows : Take ■Jib. of flour, Jib. of powdered sugar, flavoured with orange- flower water, 2oz. of potato-flour, the well-whipped yolks and whites of eight eggs, the peel of an orange grated on sugar, and a little salt. When made, put it into a buttered shallow mould and bake. The mould should be of the same shape and diameter as the bottom of the dish upon which the Cake is to be formed. When this Cake is done, turn it out of the mould and let it cool. Then put 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of purde of strawberry and raspberry mixed into a small pan, and add quickly sufficient sugar, flavoured with orange-flower water, to make it of the thickness of a batter. Warm it gently, but do not let it boil, and continue stirring all the time. Whip the whites of four eggs until quite stiff and add it to the fruit preparation, then add the juice of a lemon, and put the mixture into a silk bag. Scoop out some of the Cake from the top and put in the hole thus formed a few table-spoonfuls of curacoa, fill the hollow with the preparation of whipped eggs and fruit by means of the bag, raising it up like a pyramid, and forming it into the shape of a pine-apple. Mask the preparation as well as the Cake with a glaze made with 2 table-spoonfuls of puriie of strawberries and raspberries, finely-powdered sugar, and a little water, and let them dry for half-an-hour. When wanted for use, dish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- paper. Napoleon Cake.—Lay in a Napoleon-cake pan (see Fig. 283) a layer of puff paste, spread over that a layer of pastry Fig. 283. Napoleon-cake Pan (Mathews and Son). cream, cover with puff paste, glaze the top with sugar, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Neapolitan Cake.—(1) Pound lib. of blanched and dried, sweet almonds in a mortar, and moisten with the white of an egg ; mix with them lib. of caster sugar, ljlb. of flour, the grated peel of one orange, and 1 small pinch of salt. Mix to a stiff paste with the yolks of twelve eggs, and let it rest for one hour. Boll the paste out to fin. in thickness, cut it with a plain round 5Jin. diameter cutter, place them on baking- sheets, and bake a golden brown ; when done, trim them with the cutter. "When cold, pile on top of each other, spreading alternately between them red-currant jelly and apricot jam. When all the rounds are stuck together trim the outside with a knife, and spread apricot jam over. Boll to about Jin. thick some twelve turns puff paste, cut into small fancy shapes with cutters, lay on a baking-sheet, sift some caster sugar over them, and bake lightly so as not to colour them. Decorate the Cake with these patterns, which may be made to adhere with apricot marmalade or jelly (see Fig. 284). (2) Pound to a smooth paste 6oz. of sweet almonds and loz. of bitter, adding occasionally a little orange-flower water to prevent the mass oiling. Mix with the almonds Jib. of fresh butter, 1 pint of flour, the grated rind of one lemon, Jib. of caster sugar, and 1 pinch of salt; beat the yolks of six eggs, mix with the others, and let them remain in a cool place for half-an-hour. Dust a little flour over a slab, put the paste on it, and roll it out to about Jin. thick ; cut into 2Jin. diameter rounds with a cutter or teacup, flour a baking-sheet, lay the rounds on it, and bake in a good oven a light yellow colour. When done trim the edges, and when quite cold spread the rounds with different jams, and pile on top of each other. Sift a little sugar over the top before serving. Cakes—continued. (3) Get some jelly-cake pans and put in first a layer of pound Cake and then a layer of jelly, and so on until the size required. Trim and ornament. (4) Put Jib. of flour on the table, make a bay or well in the centre, put into that Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of butter, two whole eggs, two yolks, a little chopped lemon-rind, and 1 pinch of salt; mix the butter, eggs, sugar, and almonds first, and lastly the flour ; keep it on ice for one hour, when very stiff sift a little flour on the table, put the paste on it, divide it into twelve pieces about the size of an egg, roll them out into thin round flats, 6in. wide, take them up on a flat lid, and put them on baking-sheets ; cut them round with a great charlotte-mould (so as to trim them) of the diameter which is to be given to the Neapolitan Cake ; then cut out the flats in the centre with a smaller cutter, so as to form flat rings. Bake- the flat rings in a steady oven, taking care to bake them all the same colour. When done take them up with a flat tin without breaking, place them one over the other in sixes, and cover them with a charlotte- mould so as to lightly press them. When cool mask the flats one by one on one side with apricot marmalade; raise one above the other so as to get a nice shape and quite straight. Slightly cut the Cake all round, smooth its surfaces, put it on a solid flat of office-paste, and mask with tepid transparent marmalade ; when the marmalade has cooled and dried, ornament the sides of the Cake with almond paste or white puff paste, or else with cut preserved fruits, and, lastly, with icing sugar squeezed through a cornet; the decoration is entirely dependent upon artistic taste and ability This Cake is better served on the second day. Dish the Cake, fill the hollow with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla, and sugared. Nelson Cake.-—Boll out lib. of puff paste, cover it with 1 Jib. of well-washed currants, Jib. of sugar, and a little spice; sprinkle over a little water to make the currants and sugar bind, cover with another pound of rolled paste, and bake. When done, ice it, let it set, and serve. New-Year Cakes.—Put lib. of powdered loaf sugar and 12oz. of butter into a basin, and beat them to a cream. Add three well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of caraway-seeds, one grated nut- meg, and lib. of flour. When well mixed, stir in J pint of milk and 1 gill of rose-water, and mix well again ; add 21b. more flour, and work the whole to a smooth dough. Boll it out, cut it into Cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. Norfolk Cake.—Beat to a cream Jib. of butter, then add six eggs, Jib. of sugar, 1 teaeupful of cream, 1 pint of flour, half a nutmeg, 1 wineglassful of brandy, lib. of stoned raisins, andTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 247 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Cakes—continued. 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in cream. Mix all together, and bake in a greased Cake-ring, on a baking- sheet. Nourmalial Cake. —Cut four or five slices from the bottom of a large round sponge Cake. Spread over the. slices rasp- berry, strawberry, greengage, or any other jams, each one different. Put the slices back into their original form, covering the top layer over with a thin slice more of the Cake, press them all gently, and with a sharp knife out out the centre, leaving rather a thick rim. Put the part taken out from the centre into a basin, pour over 1 wineglassful each of brandy and white wine, and add the thin peel of a lemon. Let it soak; thoroughly mix in 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream, the yolks of three eggs, and 2oz. of sugar, put this in the centre of the Cake, and cover over with another thin layer of the sponge Cake. Prepare an icing with the whites of three eggs and 12oz. of powdered loaf sugar, cover over the Cake with it, smoothing with a knife; form a design or scroll at the top and bottom, colouring the icing for this with a little cochineal, put the Cake in a dry closet to set the icing, decorate with fruits, leaves, or any thing else desired, and serve. Nun’s Cake.—Cream 8oz. of fresh butter, and mix with it ilb. of sifted flour, Jib. of caster sugar, a grated nutmeg, 1 table- spoonful of cold water, and the yolks of four eggs, pre- viously beaten. Whisk to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, and add to the other. Butter a mould, turn so much of the mixture in that it shall not quite reach the top of the tin, and bake for about one hour in a steady oven. Fig. 285. Parliament-cake Cutter (Win. Smith and Co.). bicarbonate of sc da, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 1 saltspoonful of ground mace. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and let stand; add 3 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour and J pint of milk to the mixture. Then put in the whites of the eggs, and mix all well together. Put into a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven until the Cake shrinks from the tin. Parliament Cakes.—Put lib. of treacle and 2oz. of butter in a basin, set it near the fire until the butter is dissolved. Mix up with lib. of flour 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder—some use alum and pearlash, but these are not advisable. Beat in the warmed treacle and butter until quite smooth, and set in a cool place until next day. Boll the paste out rather thin, and cut into oblong squares with a cutter (see Pig. 285). Butter a baking-sheet, place the Cakes on, and bake for about a-quarter-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Parson’s Cake.—Bub into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour 1J break- fast-cupfuls of butter ; add 1 large teacupful of brown sugar, a little ginger and spice, five eggs well beaten, 3 teacupfuls of molasses, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk. Mix all together, put in a greased tin, and bake. Passover Cakes.—Get some of the flour used by the Jews for this; put Jib. into a basin, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Beat four eggs in a tea- cupful of milk and a teacupful of warm water; stir it in with the flour. When well beaten, pour the mixture in equal quantities on a baking-sheet, and bake in a very quick oven. Plain Cake.—Take J quartern of bakers’ dough and knead in Jib. of butter, Jib. of moist sugar, Jib. of chopped candied peel, lib. of currants, one grated nutmeg, a little ground ginger, and four eggs ; mix well. Set it in a warm place for one hour to rise, and then bake in a greased tin. Polish Cakes.—Boll puff paste very thin, cut into pieces 3in. square, wet the centre, turn each corner over, press the points down in the centre, and put a very small round of paste over them. Bake, and when cool, put dots of jelly on each corner. Polka Cakes.—Beat together in a basin 21b. of butter and an equal quantity of sifted crushed loaf sugar; add twenty eggs, one at a time, and beating continuously, 2Jib. of flour, gradually, as many well-washed and dried currants as desired, and a flavouring of lemon-peel. Turn the preparation into papered hoops, set on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Let them get cold before using. Parisian Cake. -— Put lib. of blanched filberts into a pan over the fire and roast them, stirring them continually with a wooden spoon. Let them get cold, put them into a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a little cream to prevent oiling. Turn them into a basin with 1 qt. of cream, pouring in a little at a time, and strain the whole through a fine sieve or cloth. Have ready peeled and cut into halves 6oz. of pistachio-kernels, also 4oz. of candied orange-peel, cut the same length as the nuts and about Jin. in thick- ness. Prepare a sponge with 12oz. of flour, ljoz. of yeast, and 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and set it to rise. Cream ljlb. of butter, add Jib. of warmed butter, and mix in two at a time, ten eggs and ten more yolks, beating each lot in separately for about two minutes. Then add 18oz. of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of the liquor from the kernels mixed up with 2 handfuls of flour, put another equal quantity of flour on the table, form a bay, mix in the sponge and 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar together, with more milk if re- quired, and form the whole into a rather soft paste. Should the paste be too stiff, more eggs should be added. Now mix in the filberts and candied orange-peel, taking care that they are well incorporated, put the paste into a well-buttered mould, decorating the top and sides with more pistachios, put the Cake into a moderate oven, and bake. When done, turn it out, and serve either hot or cold. Park - Street Cake.—Work Jib. of butter in a warm bowl until like a cream, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar gradually; beat four yolks of eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar until very light, and add to the butter; put in 1 teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon flavouring, J teaspoonful of Portuguese Cake.—Beat in a basin until quite frothy the yolks of six eggs and Jib. of caster sugar ; pound Jib. of blanched almonds with the white of an egg to prevent oiling, rub them through a sieve into a kitchen basin (ground almonds will do as well), and mix with them 1 pinch of grated orange- peel (zest) and the juice of four oranges. When the yolk3 of eggs and sugar are frothy, mix gradually in Jib. of potato- flour and the whites of six well-whisked eggs. Butter and paper a baking-sheet, pour the mixture on this about lin. thick, and bake in a slack oven. When the Cake is done, set it to cool, trim the surface, and mask first with a thin layer of apricot marmalade and then with a layer of orange-flavoured icing. Pound Cakes.— (1) Take 20oz. of sugar and 12oz. of butter and work to a cream ; then add twelve well-beaten eggs, ljlb. of sifted flour, and mace and nutmeg to suit the taste. Make into a dough, put into small buttered tins, and bake in a moderately quick oven. (2) Wash all tho salt out of fib. of butter, squeeze all the water out, and rub it into Jib. of flour ; beat the whites and yolks of eleven eggs separately ; beat Jib. of sugar with the yolks, then rub Jib. of sugar and Jib. of flour together. Mix all these ingredients, part at a time, first one, then another. Beat well, and flavour with 1 wineglassful of brandy and the grated peel of one lemon, or wine and nutmeg. Put into small greased tins, and bake. (3) Bub fib. of butter into lib. of flour; beat the yolks of ten eggs well, and add by degrees to the butter and flour, and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth and lib. of caster sugar. Flavour with 1 teaspoonful of mace and 1 wine-glass- ful of wine. Bake in large cups well greased.248 TIIE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. C Ekes—continued. Cakes—continued. (4) Beat lib. of butter in an earthen pan with your hand one way, till it - is like a thick cream, then put in twelve eggs well beaten with half the whites, also lib. of well-washed currants, lib. of flour, lib. of sugar, and a few caraway-seeds. Beat all well together for an hour ; butter a pan and put it in, then bake it for an hour in a quick oven. (5) Cream lib. of butter, then work with it well lib. of sugar; add lib. of flour, sixteen eggs, and the yolks of four. Mix all well together, and bake in small round buttered tins. (6) Cream lib. of butter and rub into it gradually lib. of sifted and dried flour. Beat the yolks of ten eggs till light, then add lib. of caster sugar, beat again, put in 1 wineglassful of brandy or whisky flavoured with nutmeg or the grated rind of a lemon; mix all together. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in just before baking. Bake in small buttered tins for two hours. (7) Cream lib. of butter, and sift in gradually lib. of flour and lib. of caster sugar ; beat in eight eggs. When all is thoroughly mixed, stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 pinch of salt, and the rind of two oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. Currants, raisins, mixed peel in small quantities, or any other kind of dried fruits may be added if liked. Line some rings (see Fig. 286) with buttered paper, turn the paste in, set them on iron baking- sheets, and bake a light colour. (8) Cream lib. of butter and add lib. of sugar, the yolks of ten eggs, \ wineglassful each of wine and brandy, the whites of the eggs whipped stiff, and lib. of flour. Put into one- fourth of the dough 1 teacupful of currants, and into another part 1 teacupful of ground almonds; leave the rest plain. Fill small round tins three-quarters full. Into half of those with the plain dough put three small pieces of citron, inserting them upright a little way in the dough. Sift sugar over the tops, and put them in a moderate oven to bake for twenty minutes. Ice over the plain and currant Cakes. (9) Take lib. of butter, lib. of sugar, eight eggs, and 14oz. of flour ; mix the butter and sugar together until it is creamy (if the butter is hard it may be warmed a little), break the eggs into a basin and work them into the mixture very slowly, as the (lightness of the Cake depends upon this. Having done so, work in the flour very lightly; seeds, or currants and peel, may be added according to taste. Bake as before. (10) Warm Jib. of butter and stir in |lb. of caster sugar; mix thoroughly together, and then add, one by one, six eggs. When well beaten, sift in gradually lOoz. of flour and the grated peel of two lemons; add Jib. each of washed and dried currants, mixed peel cut small, stoned raisins, or 1 table- spoonful of caraway-seeds if preferred to the fruit. Line with paper some Cake-rings three or four thicknesses round and underneath, stand them on iron baking-sheets, pour in the Cake mixture, and bake. Fig. 286. Pound-cake Ring (Mathews and Son). (11) Put into a basin £lb. of butter and fib. of powdered sugar. Grate in the rind of half a lemon, and with the hand knead well for twenty minutes. Break in five eggs, adding gradually and carefully, and kneading sharply with the hand for ten minutes longer. Then add fib. of well-sifted flour, mixing the whole slowly and thoroughly for five minutes longer. Butter a 2qt. round Cake-mould, and line it with thick paper at the bottom and sides. Fill it with the pre- paration, and put it in a slow oven to bake for fully one hour. Remove, and let it cool for about two hours. Unmould, detach the paper, and lay it on a pastry wire grating. Glaze the tops and sides with a vanilla-flavoured chocolate icing. Lay the Cake on a dish with a fancy white paper. Prepare 3oz. of candied cherries, 2oz. of angelica, 2oz. of red and the same of white pears, both candied ; cut the cherries in halves, the ang-elica lozenge shaped, and the pears each in six parts (except one white one, which is kept whole), keeping the fruits all separate. Place the whole pear on top of the Cake in the centre, stem upward. Then decorate thus: at the base of the pear lay two slices of red pear, carefully, one against the other on one side. Repeat on the other side, and arrange in the same way two slices of the white pear in the middle of the space on one side, and two more slices opposite. Now cover the four spaces nearest the pear with half a cherry each, and arrange four angelica lozenges in the empty place at the end of the layers of pear. Then on each of the four angelica points lay half a cherry. Begin decorating the edge of the Cake all around in a crown shape with one angelica lozenge, putting near the point one half cherry, then another lozenge, and continue the same all round until joined. Arrange the remaining slices of pear in the spaces near the border, and it will be ready to send to table. (12) Slightly warm lib. of butter, add lib. of caster sugar, and mix them thoroughly together with a wooden spoon, then beat in three eggs. Mix in gradually £lb. of flour and a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and then add six more well-beaten eggs. Work the mixture well, then add another |lb. of flour, 1 wineglassful of sherry, a few drops of essence of rose-water, £ wineglassful of brandy, §lb. of finely-chopped candied fruit, and |lb. of chopped citron. Beat the mixture well; butter the interior of a Cake-tin, strew in some finely-sifted breadcrumbs, and shake out those that do not adhere to the butter; put in the Cake-mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. The mixture should only three-parts fill the mould when it is first put in, as room must be left for the Cake to rise. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the tin, leave it until cold, then glaze it over with icing. (13) Warm slightly a large basin, put lib. of sugar and lib. of butter into it, and work them well together with the hand for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Into another basin break eight eggs, and beat them until they are very light; add them gradually to the butter and sugar, stirring them in with a wooden spoon. Mix in lib. of flour, adding it a little at a time, and stirring well in ; add 21b. of washed and dried currants, and jib. of candied lemon-peel cut into small pieces. Put all this when thoroughly mixed into a buttered Cake-tin. Bake it for nearly two hours in a moderately hot oven. (14) German.—Beat 8oz. of warmed fresh butter and 8oz. of caster sugar to a cream ; sift in by degrees lOoz. of flour and add five eggs, one at a time. Beat all together with the hand, add -jib. of sultanas, jib. of mixed candied peels chopped small, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a Cake-tin with buttered paper, and put three rounds of paper at the bottom of the tin; pour the Cake mixture in, and bake for two hours in a moderately quick oven. When done, turn it out, and put on a sieve to cool. (15) As Fritters.—Cut 2oz. of any pound Cake into fingers ; cover them with a thin coating of red or black-currant jam, and press'two together. Dip them into sweet batter and fry in boiling fat until they are of a light colour; take them out, drain them, dust over with caster sugar, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Princess Louise Cake.—Fill two jelly-cake tins with sponge Cake batter; bake them, and when done cut the centre from one of the Cakes, leaving- a rim l^in. wide ; put some jelly on the other Cake, lay the rim on the edge, and fill the centre with Bavarian cream. Put the Cake on a dish, arrange some candied fruits round, and serve. Prussian Breakfast Cakes.—Sift 71b. of white flour into a bowl and rub in Jib. of butter. When all the butter is absorbed, stir in 1 pint of warm water and lqt. of warm milk, the yolks of four eggs, and £ pint of thick yeast, and make into a dough ; let this remain with a cloth over it in a warm place for half-an-hour or so to “prove.” Roll out thickly and mould into rounds about 6in. in diameter ; butter some baking- sheets and put the Cakes on, a short distance from each other; let them rise for a few minutes in a warm place and then bake in a moderate oven. When they are done a light brown, brush a little warm butter over the tops, and serve hot. Queen (or Heart) Cakes.—(1) Cream lib. of butter, mix with it some rose-water, lqt. of flour, and lib. of caster sugar. Add a few currants, washed and dried, and beat all well together. Put into greased heart-shaped moulds (see Fig. 287, A). Bake in a moderate oven, and dredge over with white sugar. (2) 1 teacupful of butter, 1 pint of caster sugar, lqt. of flour, four eggs, 1 wineglassful each of wine, brandy, and thin cream, lib. of currants, washed and dried, and ground spice to taste. Warm the liquids together, and stir quickly into the beaten sugar, butter, and eggs; add the flour, and finally the fruit. Bake in heart-shaped pans in a moderate oven.249 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. 'Cakes—continued. (3) Cream lib. of butter by warming' it and working with the hand. Stir lib. of caster sugar with the butter for five minutes, and add slowly eight eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of water; beat until well mixed, and then sift in gradually 20oz. of flour and a handful of currants that have been washed and dried. Butter some heart-shaped tins, fill with the mixture, dust a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Bub 12oz. of lard into 31b. of flour, and add loz. each of cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda. Make a hollow in Queen-cake Tins the centre, mix in ljlb. of caster sugar, a flavouring of essence of lemon, and sufficient milk to form a dough. With this three-parts fill some greased tins (Fig. 287, b), bake in a moderate oven, turn out when done, and let them get cold. (5) Melt 21b. of butter, cream it by beating when warm with the hand, and add 21b. of caster sugar, the grated peel of four large lemons, and mix thoroughly with a wooden spoon oi whisk. When it is well frothed, add twenty-eight eggs, stirring for a few minutes after every four or five have been broken in. Wash and dry £lb. of currants, and mix them with Cakes—continued. 31b. of flour; stir this slowly into the eggs, &c. When thoroughly mixed, drop it in small lumps on several sheets of stout paper, and bake. (6) Bub 6oz. of butter into 8oz. of flour; add 6oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of currants, washed and dried, and the grated peel of two lemons ; then beat in four eggs. Butter some small heart-shaped tins, fill with the paste, dust a little castor sugar over the tops, and bake until a light colour. When done, turn them out upon a wire tray. These Cakes may be iced if desired. (7) Beat to a cream lib. of butter and lib. of sugar in a basin, add and beat in ten well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of rose-water. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with lloz. of flour, add a little at a time, and beat it in with the creamed butter; add 41b. of dried and floured currants, and stir thoroughly. Have a quantity of small round or other shaped tin moulds (see Fig. 287, A, b, c, d, e, f) well buttered, two-thirds fill them with the mixture, dust a little sugar over the tops, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out, and serve cold. (8) Butter some small heart or other shaped queen Cake-tins (see Fig. 287, A, b, c, d, e, e). Put lib. of butter into a basin, beat with the back of a wooden spoon till it comes to a cream, and add to it 14oz. of powdered white sugar. Break and beat up eight eggs. Take lib. of flour, and add to the beaten butter first 1 table-spoonful of the flour and then a little of the egg, and so on alternately, flour and egg, stirring until all the eggs and flour are mixed in. Then add and stir in fib. of washed and dried currants, half fill the buttered tins, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. Railroad Cake.—Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 6 table-spoonfuls of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, six eggs, 1 teaspoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Make into a dough, and bake in shallow pans in a quick oven. Ramazan Cakes.—Moisten £lb. of very fine ground rice with 1 pint of milk, strain through a sieve into a stewpan, and dissolve in it 1 teacupful of caster sugar; stir over a moderate fire for several minutes, turn it out on a baking-sheet which has been damped with cold water, roll it to about lin. in thickness, and smooth the surface. Sprinkle caster sugar over the top when cold, and divide it into small Cakes with fancy cutters. Regatta Cake.—Mix thoroughly together 21b. of bread dough, 1 pint of sugar, ^lb. of butter, four eggs, 1 wineglassful of wine, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia salt, and lib. of stoned raisins. Put in deep pans that have been greased, and let it prove for half-an-hour. If in cold weather, let it be for fifteen minutes longer. Bake in a moderate oven. Ribbon Cake. — (1) Make a dough with the following ingre- dients : 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, i pint of milk, 3* breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour, % teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Fig. 288. Ribbon Cake. Have three long shallow pans of equal size, divide the dough into three parts, and bake two parts as plain Cake ; add to the remaining dough breakfast-cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped, 1 breakfast-cupful of currants, ^fh. of sliced citron (flour all the fruit), 2 teaspoonfuls of molasses, 2 teaspoonfulsTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 250 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. of brandy or wine, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed ground maee and cinnamon. Bake, and put the fruit Cake between the two plain Cakes, with apple or other jelly between (see Fig. 288). Press it with the hand in putting together. Trim the edges oven, and cover with icing. (2) Warm Jib. of butter and beat to a cream, working in lib. of caster sugar gradually, beating all the time. Flavour with 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind or half a grated nutmeg. Beat four eggs very light and add them to J pint of milk. Mix J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and t teaspoonful of cream of tartar with lqt. of flour ; sift this into the bowl of beaten ingredients; beat quickly and vigorously to thoroughly mix, and then stop. Take three round baking-sheets of the same size, and in each of two put one-third of the mixture, and bake. To the other third, add 4 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 breakfast-cupful of currants, and about 2oz. of citron-peel, cut fine. Bake this on the remaining sheet. When done, take out of the oven, and spread a light Cake with a thin layer of apricot jelly while warm. Place on this the dark Cake, and spread that also with jelly. Place the other sheet of light Cake on the top of that, and lay a sheet of paper over all. Put a piece of board on the Cake, and place two flat irons on it, so as to flatten the Cake as it cools. Rich Cake.— (1) Bub into 41b. of sifted flour lib. of butter and lib. of lard, add 3 table-spoonfuls of baking-powder, 31b. of washed and dried currants, 21b. of moist sugar, lib. of minced stoned raisins, Jib. of chopped mixed candied peel, 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices, and 1 pinch of salt. Make into a dough with eight well-beaten eggs and a little milk. Bake for one-and-a-half hours, or longer, in a moderately hot oven. Cover with sugar icing, and pipe or ornament with crystallised fruits, angelica, or any other way. (2) Bub lib. of butter into lib. of best white flour, then add lib. of caster sugar, 2oz. of ground sweet almonds, eight eggs, and 1 wineglassful of brandy slowly while beating. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, and bake. Richelieu Cake.-—Put Jib. of sugar, Jib. of blanched and pounded almonds, and the yolks of four eggs, into a bowl, and with a spatula mix well together for two minutes. Place the whites of eight eggs in a copper egg-basin, with J salt- spoonful of salt, and with a wire whisk beat them to a stiff froth; add this to the above preparation, with 3oz. of melted butter, 3oz. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Mix slowly together for three minutes. Butter a plain 3qt. mould, line the interior thoroughly, and pour in the prepara- tion; place it in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half, then remove and let it cool, and turn out. Dress on a dessert- dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Fig. 289. Riscasoli Caiie. Riscasoli Cake.—The following receipt is given by Dubois for the preparation of this Cake : Mix together fib. of wheat- and potato-flour in equal parts, lib. of caster sugar, 5oz. of butter warmed to melting, the yolks of six eggs, a little salt, and vanilla or any other flavouring to taste. Make it into a dough with milk, but work in the butter after the whites of eggs. Fill a buttered dome-shaped mould well dusted with potato-flour with this. Bake in a moderate oven. Cakes—continued. When turned out and cooled, cut it horizontally into slices about Jin. thick, then rebuild the Cake into its original form, putting one slice on top of another, soaking each of them with a little alkermes liqueur. Mask them also one by one on the top with a layer of vanilla-flayoured frangipane, and finish with alkermes liqueur. Place the Cake on a cold dish, mask the surface first with a thin layer of apricot mar- malade or greengage marmalade, then with a layer of whipped cream, sweetened, flavoured, and kept very firm. Smooth the surfaces well, decorate them with the same cream, squeezed through a cornet, as shown in Fig. 289, garnish with a ring of macaroons, and serve as soon as ready. Risen Cake.—Cream 9oz. of butter by beating it well when warm with the hand, and add lib. of caster sugar. Put J pint of yeast in ljlb. of flour, mix with it half the butter and sugar, and let it remain till the next morning, previously beating in 3 gills of milk. In the morning, when well risen, add the rest of the butter and sugar, with four well-beaten eggs, a few washed and dried currants, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat all well together for some time. Put it in a buttered tin, and let it rise again in a warm place. It must be very light before it is baked. Robert Cakes.— Beat the yolks of ten eggs with lib. of caster sugar, well whisk the whites, add them, and beat the whole together for a few minutes. Stir in gradually with the beaten eggs Jib. of sifted flour, the grated rind of one lemon, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Bake the batter in jelly-cake tins. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix well with them the juice and grated rind of an orange and lib. of caster sugar. When cooked, take the Cakes out of the tins, leave till nearly cold, then spread them over with the above mixture. Place the Cakes in layers on the top of each other, and serve them. The above quantities will make two Cakes. Rock Cakes.—(1) Bub Jib. of butter in ljlb. of flour in which a little powdered mace and 1 pinch of salt have been previously mixed; when quite smooth, add Jib. of currants, washed and dried, Jib. of caster sugar, four eggs, 6 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Flour a baking-sheet, and when the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, take small quantities on a fork and drop them lightly on the sheet a short distance from each other, and bake quickly. See Fig. 290. Fig. 290. Rock Cakes. (2) Bub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour in which 1 tea- spoonful of baking-flour and a little salt have been previously mixed; then add Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of currants, washed and dried, and a little grated lemon-peel. Mix to a stiff paste with two eggs, which have been beaten, and a little milk if required ; but the paste must be very stiff, or the Cakes will be flat. Flour a large baking-sheet, and with a fork drop small quantities of the paste lightly on it, leaving a short space between each. Bake in a quick oven. (3) Bub 3oz. of butter into lib. of flour, then add 1 teaspoon- ful of powdered ginger, 3oz. of powdered white sugar, and 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, and rub these in also. Take 3oz. of sultana raisins, rub them in a towel to free them from stalks, and when quite clean, mix them in. Put two eggs into a bowl, beat them till they are quite light, add to them J teaenpful of milk, and stir this into the flour, &c., till it is a stiff dough: it should be so stiff that a spoon will stand in it. Butter a flat baking-sheet, and put on to it rough pieces of this dough, about double the size of a walnut. Do not cut the dough, as it would make the shape of the Cakes too smooth; tear out pieces of the requisite251 THE ‘ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to. see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. size with a couple of forks, and drop them on to the tin in such a way that they shall be as rough and rocky as possible. Put them in a hot oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take them out, and let them get cold. Rodon Cake (German).—Dissolve loz. of dry yeast in 1 tea- cupful of warm milk ; mix with it 4oz. of flour, work it well, and set the sponge in a warm place to rise. Blanch and peel Jib. of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, pound them in a mortar until quite smooth, adding occasionally a small quantity of white-of-egg to keep them from oiling. Beat six eggs, and mix with them the pounded almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon, 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, fib. of the finest white flour, and sufficient warm milk to make a thin dough. Mix Jib. of warmed butter with the dough, and then the sponge, which should be well risen. Beat the whole together for twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, then mix in 4oz. of chopped sultanas, 2oz. of well-washed and dried currants, and about 1 table-spoonful of chopped almonds. Thickly butter the interior of a Cake-tin, and stick thin slices of almonds all round the sides and bottom. Pour the Cake batter into the mould, which should be only half full. Leave the Cake in a warm temperature until it has well risen. Bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half, and turn it out of the tin whilst warm. Roll Cake.—Beat separately three eggs till very light, then beat them together with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, or 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of pastry-flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Spread very thin in a long, shallow tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Beat one egg, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Pour this slowly on 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Cook in a saucepan till smooth like cream. Spread it while warm over the Cake, trim the edges with a sharp knife, and roll up, fastening the free edge by wetting with a paste-brush. Roman Cake. — Mix in a basin 4oz. of flour (half wheat and half rice), 4oz. of caster sugar, and flavour with a little vanilla or lemon-peel, 1 pinch of salt, and four eggs. Strain it through a sieve when thoroughly mixed, and then add Jib. of butter which has been warmed; stir over the fire until thick. When this frangipane is sufficiently set, take it off the fire and let it cool. Make a paste with 12oz. of flour, lib. of caster sugar, and fifteen eggs; beat it well, and turn it into a timbale-mould. Bake it, and when cold, divide it into four pieces, each of which cut into slices. Divide the frangipane into two portions, putting each part in a basin by itself, and flavour one with vanilla, the other with ground almonds. Soak one-third of the slices of the Cake in rum, one-third in maraschino, and one-third in rosolio. Put a layer of fran- gipane on a dish, then put in, one above the other alternately, the slices of the Cake. Mask each of them with a layer of currant jelly; cut some preserved fruits into little dice, and sprinkle them on the top. Make another layer of the Cake soaked as before, another of frangipane, and one of fruits, and continue in this manner until the Cake resumes its original shape. Mask the outside either with jelly or frangipane, sprinkle over more fruits, and mask over these with a thick layer of Italian meringue; decorate with the cornet. Put it in a moderate oven for two minutes to set [ the meringue. When quite cold, ornament it with preserved fruits and other confections. Rose or Clouded Cuke. — Mix well Jib. of butter in lib. of flour, add lib. of sugar and twelve eggs, well beaten, leaving out the whites of three. Then dissolve in J breakfast-cupful of boiling water 2 small teaspoonfuls of powdered alum, 1 small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 small teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and mix with 2 small teaspoonfuls of cochineal. Stir this mixture in one-third of the batter, and pour into a Cake-tin a layer of white batter, then a layer of red, beginning and ending with white. This is an ornamental Cake to cut for baskets. Roumanian Sweet Cake.—Put Jib. of flour in a basin, and mix with it 2oz. of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a very small quantity of powdered cloves. Put Jib. of honey into Cakes—continued. a small lined saucepan, place it over the fire until hot, but without letting it boil, then stir it in with the ingredients in the basin, and knead all well together. Cover the basin with a cloth, and leave the paste for an hour. At the end of that time, dredge a small quantity of flour over the table, put the paste on it, and roll it out about lin. in thickness. Lay the paste on a baking-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, strew comfits over the top. Rout Cakes.—(1) Large.—Put Jib. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar into a pan, warm it, and mix in the yolks of five eggs and the whites of four. Beat well with a whisk until the mixture is warm, then remove the pan from the fire, and let it cool. Work in 6oz. of flour, turn the batter into a well-buttered mould sprinkled over with sugar, put it in a slack oven, bake for an hour, turn the Cake out when cold, and serve. (2) Small.—Bub through a sieve lib. of sweet almonds that have been blanched and pounded (or use ground almonds) with lib. of caster sugar; beat into it the yolks of four eggs and the grated rind of one lemon. Make the paste into any shapes, sprinkle the tops with water, and sift caster sugar over them. Butter a baking-sheet, put the Cakes on it a short distance from each other, and bake in a quick oven until lightly coloured. (3) Take lib. of ground almonds, put them in a saucepan, and sift into it lib. of caster sugar; hold it over a gentle fire, and when the paste is so dry that it will not stick to the fingers, take it off. Be careful not to let the paste burn, and keep it moving. Boll it into thin and short lengths, and make a variety of shapes with it. Make an icing, and dip the shapes into it, one side only; drain them. They can be variegated by almonds or coloured pistachios scattered over them. Royal Cake.—Stone 12oz. of raisins, put them into a basin with about J pint of maraschino and four sticks of vanilla pounded with 6oz. of sugar, and cover over the basin until wanted. Work 21b. of butter to a cream, and prepare a paste with it, adding 31b. of flour, twelve eggs, and twelve yolks, and working in the vanilla mixture when the paste is thoroughly incorporated. Put the mixture into a mould, decorate with pieces of candied peel, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the Cake out when done, and serve cold. Buggies Cake.—Bub 1J breakfast-cupfuls of butter into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, in which you have already mixed 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; add 3 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and beat in six eggs and J pint of milk. Flavour to taste, and bake in a moderate oven. St. Amand Cake.—Put Jib. of flour into a basin to warm, and then take a fourth part of it and put it into a small stewpan. Dissolve Joz. of German yeast in a teacupful of warm milk, and add it to the flour in the pan to make it Ji into a sponge. Cover over the pan, and put it in a warm place to rise to double its original bulk. Make a hollow, or bay, as it is called, in the centre of the remainder of the flour, and put in the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, 3oz. of warmed butter, 5 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of butter-milk, and a little salt. TheTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 252 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. butter-milk and eggs must be well beaten together before adding, and the flour sifted in a little at a time, keeping the paste stiff. Work it vigorously for ten minutes, and then add two eggs, one at a time. Mix the sponge into this dough, and work for a few minutes more. Then add another 3oz. of butter warmed to melting. Cover the paste over with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to prove. When it has risen for an-hour-and-a-half, work it again with the hands, adding 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Take a large border-mould with a concave bottom, butter it well, and three-parts fill with the paste, putting it in in layers; on top of each layer put some well-drained preserved chestnuts cut up in small pieces. Put the mould on a baking-sheet, keep it in a moderate temperature, and let the paste again rise for twenty minutes or so. When it has risen to nearly the rim of the mould, cover over the top with a sheet of buttered paper, and put the Cake in a steady oven, and bake for forty or forty-five minutes. Take it out of the oven, and pour into the hollow of it £ wineglassful of maraschino, which let it absorb. Let the Cake cool, put it on a dish, and fill the cavity with chestnut ice finished with whipped cream. Surround the ice with a circle of candied angelica cut to points (see Fig. 291), and dried cherries, and round the base put a circle of crystallised greengages, apricots, or American apples. St. Honore Cake.— (1) This exceptionally beautiful dish requires much skill and patience to prepare. Peel neatly two medium-sized, sound, blood oranges. Separate the sections carefully to avoid tearing the skin, as, should they lose any of their juice, they would be of little use. Lay a sheet of paper over a tin plate, arrange the pieces of orange on top, and leave them in a warm place to dry for four hours. Wipe neatly twenty-four malaga grapes, leaving on each about gin. of stem, so that they will remain firm while using them. Beat up lg pints of sweet vanilla cream, and lay it aside in a cool place until needed. Roll 3oz. of tart-paste into a round piece Sin. in diameter. Lay it on a baking-sheet lOin. wide, and prepare a choux paste as follows : Put into a sauce- pan 1 gill of cold milk with loz. of good butter, place it on a hot fire, and, when boiling, add at once 3oz. of well-sifted flour. Stir briskly with the spatula all round, take it from the fire, set on a table, and add immediately 1 saltspoonful of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute more. Break in an egg, stir briskly for one minute, break in another, mix again, and then another, mixing all together for two minutes. Slide down the pastry-bag a small tube, pour in the above preparation, and press down the top with the hands on to the edge of the paste in the baking-sheet, so as to make an even border |in. high, and with the remainder of the paste press down on to another baking-sheet into twenty-four small, round choux Jin. in diameter, leaving them lin. apart. Glaze the surfaces with beaten egg, and place them in a brisk oven to bake for about twelve minutes. Remove, and let them get thoroughly cold. Spread over the paste, inside the border, 2 table-spoonfuls of apple marmalade; then put it in a moderate oven to bake for twenty-five minutes. Remove, and put to cool for thirty minutes. Make a paper cornet, cut off gin. from the point, and put into it 3oz. of red-currant jolly. Press this out gently, dividing it evenly among the twenty- four small choux. Make lib. of granulated sugar into a rich syrup. Oil 2ft. square of the surface of a marble table, and place at hand the pan containing the syrup. Plunge one of the grapes into this, remove it immediately with a fork, and lay it on the oiled table. Proceed the same with the other twenty-three, being careful to lay them lin. apart from each other. Now dip twelve of the sections of prepared oranges into the syrup, one by one, and lay them on the oiled table exactly the same as the grapes. Dip carefully the surfaces of the small choux into the syrup, and lay on the same oiled table. Then take the St. Honore bottom in the baking-sheet, and proceed to arrange it as follows: With the syrup standing on the right, lift the choux up, one by one, dipping one side of each lightly in the syrup, arranging them, on top of the chou-paste border, close together to form a crown. Should the sugar be too thick, return it to the stove, and let it boil up again; then take it off, and dip the thin part of the oranges lightly in it, and lay them over the small choux, the thick part upward, each one adhering to the other until they form the crown. Dip the tops of the grapes lightly Cakes—continued. into the same sugar, and place one on each join of the oranges, with another in the centre, the stems being upward; attach to the small choux the six remaining grapes, dividing them evenly. Arrange a fancy paper on a dessert-dish, and lay the St. Honore over carefully, then take the frothy part of the whipped cream, transfer it to another vessel, and, with the whisk, beat briskly for five minutes, adding gill of good cognac, g gill of kirsch, and 3oz. of well-pounded and sifted macaroons. Mix well together for two minutes longer, and fill the empty space of the St. Honore with three-quarters of this preparation, keeping it as high as possible. With the use of the pastry-bag and fancy tube, press down the rest of the cream, and decorate artistically the top and sides, taking care not to put any on the oranges, and then send the Cake to table. (2) To make the pastry for this very exceptional Cake, put over the fire in a thick saucepan 1 pint of water, gib. of butter, and goz. of sugar; when the water boils, throw in gib. of flour, and beat the paste until it comes away from the sides of the saucepan. Take the saucepan off the fire, let the paste cool for five minutes, and then beat in eight eggs, two at a time, thoroughly mixing them before adding more: the paste should be soft enough to drop easily from the spoon, but not soft enough to spread when dropped. Drop part of the paste upon a buttered and floured pan in pieces as large as small walnuts; form a ring of more of it, as large as the Cake, is desired, and about lin. broad and high; put more of it in a thin round, the size of the Cake, to use as a bottom or stand. Some cooks make the bottom of a thin round of Cake, but this is not advisable, for if the St. Honore custard stands in the Cake it saturates and softens it. Bake the little balls and ring in a moderate oven; when they are cool, cut a small piece out of each, and fill them with cold St. Honors custard, made as follows: For a Cake of medium size, put into a saucepan over the fire the yolks of six eggs, ljoz. of potato- or rice-flour, and g pint of milk, and stir them constantly until the mixture is quite smooth and begins to thicken. Take it off the fire, and stir with an egg-whisk for a minute. Mix fib. of sifted powdered sugar with the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and whip this meringue with the custard; then return it to the fire, and beat for a moment with the whisk. When quite smooth, pour it into an earthen dish, and cool it; it will be ready for use for the Cake as soon as it is cold. After the custard is made, blanch some almonds by pouring boiling water upon them and then rubbing them on a wet towel to remove the skins; cut some white grapes in clusters of two or three, and make ready some sections of mandarin oranges, or French candied fruits, and some cherries, put each one on the end of a long wire skewer, and dip into thick syrup ready for use. When the pastry-ring and puffs are filled with the cold custard and the fruit is covered with sugar, shape the St. Honore Cake as follows : First lay the fiat sheet of pastry on a round flat dish, on the sheet lay the ring of pastry filled with custard, fixing it in place with melted sugar; then arrange the puffs round it filled with custard and the candied fruit, and finally heap the cold custard in the centre of the Cake. The Cake should not be made until shortly before it is required for use, because it deteriorates by standing, and, if the weather is damp, the candied fruit soon becomes sticky _ (3) Put 1 wineglassful of water into a stewpan with a little sugar, lemon-peel, and salt, and about 3gOZ. of butter. Put the pan on the fire, boil, and then take it off. Take out the zest, and quickly add gib. of flour, making it into a smooth and consistent paste. Put the pan on the fire again for four or five minutes for the paste to dry, then put it into another stewpan, and add four eggs, putting in one at a time, and lastly adding gib. of fresh butter. Then take a tart-sheet, and spread over it a thinnish flat of short paste of about 8in. or lOin. in diameter, and cut it qirite round. Put the first paste into a biscuit-bag, and squeeze out a string about the size of a thin sausage all round the edge upon the flat of paste; egg the paste over, put it on a baking-sheet, prick (or dock) the centre, and put into a moderate oven to bake. With the remainder of the paste, squeeze out some little Cakes (choux) round in form, and put them in the oven to bake. Then put 2oz. of rice-flour and the same of wheat- flour into a stewpan, and add the yolks of four eggs, gib. of253 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PBACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. caster sugar, a piece of lemon-zest, and 1 pinch of salt; add to this 1 wineglassful of milk. Put the pan on a moderate fire, and stir it well. When it commences to bubble put it back, and add the whites of four eggs well whipped, stirring continually until it is nearly cold. The crust of the Cake being baked and cold, dip the little choux into sugar icing, one at a time, then place them close together, side by side, round the top circle of the choux paste, and upon each of these little choux place a preserved cherry also dipped in the icing. Put the Cake on a dish, fill the hollow with the cream mixture, and let it stand for twenty minutes, when it will be ready to serve. (4) Put 2oz. of butter into a lined saucepan with 1 breakfast- cupful of cold water, place it over the fire until hot, then throw in Jib. of flour in which £ teaspoonful of sugar has been added, and stir the whole rapidly until thoroughly mixed. Take the saucepan off the fire, continue stirring the contents for a minute or two, let the paste stand for a minute or two, then mix in four eggs, one at the time, stirring well after each egg is added; then let the paste stand for half-an-hour. Put 2oz. of flour on a paste-board with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, loz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Add one beaten egg, and work the whole until quite smooth. Roll the paste out Jin. in thickness, and trim it to a round shape; lay it on the bottom of a buttered baking-dish, and spread a thin layer of the first prepared paste over it. Put more of the paste into a pastry- bag, and squeeze it out all round the Cake, making a border. Prick the centre of the paste in several places with a fork and inside of the border. Brush the border over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a brisk oven. Put the remainder of the paste in small quantities on a buttered baking-dish, and bake them also. In the mean- time prepare the following cream: Put the yolks of five eggs into a saucepan with 5oz. of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of milk, and beat them well; place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until rather thick, then take it off the fire before boiling, or the eggs will curdle; flavour the mixture with any kind of essence, and turn it on to a plate to cool. Beat the whites of the five eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture while still beating; then let it rest a little before mixing in the remainder of the cream mixture; it will not require any more beating, but it should be very lightly stirred. If stirred too much the cream is in danger of becoming too liquid. When the Cakes are cooked, take them out of the oven, pile the cream in the centre of the large Cake, raising it in a pyramid form, and smoothing it over with the blade of a knife. Put 2oz. of sugar into a saucepan with 2 table- spoonfuls of water, and place it over the fire until reduced to a syrup that when tried in cold water will immediately become brittle (see Sugar-boiling). Do not stir the syrup much. Dip the top of each of the small Cakes or choux into it, holding them on the point of a fork or skewer; place a small candied plum on the top of each, then arrange them around the cream on the border of the Cake (see Fig. 292). Serve the Cake when cold. Sand Cakes.—(1) Large.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy with Jib. of caster sugar; add gradually the beaten yolks of twelve eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of fine wheat- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cakes—continued. flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of potato-flour, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Continue beating the ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then stir in gently the whites of the twelve eggs, which should have been whisked to a firm froth. Flavour the hatter with 1 table-spoonful of brandy or rum (which may be omitted). Thickly butter a Cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 4oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs, Jib. of flour, 1 teacupful of mashed potatoes, and the grated peel and juice of one lemon. Beat the mixture until all the ingredients are well incorporated, then mix in lightly the well-whisked whites of the six eggs. Butter a Cake-mould, pour in the mixture, allowing room for it to rise, and bake in a moderate oven. Blanch and peel 2oz. of sweet almonds, cut them into thin fillets, and sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them. When the Cake is about three-parts cooked, strew the almonds on the top of it, cover it with a sheet of paper to prevent the almonds from burning, and finish baking. (3) Beat lib. of butter to a cream and mix in the yolks of twelve eggs and the grated peel of a lemon; then mix in gradually Jib. of potato-flour and Jib. of powdered sugar, all these thoroughly sifted. When they are well blended together, add J wineglassful of rum or brandy, and the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth; stir it well, and bake in a buttered tin in a steady oven. (4) Warm Jib. of butter and rub it into Jib. of wheat-flour and Jib. of potato-flour ; then add six eggs whisked, Jib. of caster sugar, and the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Mix well together and bake in a moderate oven till three-parts done, when draw out the Cake and sprinkle over the following mixture: 2oz. or 3oz. of blanched almonds minced, 1 tea- spoonful of cinnamon finely-powdered, and 2oz. of sifted sugar. Replace the Cake in the oven, and finish baking it, care being taken that the almonds do not brown. (5) Small.—Rub 4oz. of butter into 4oz. of flour and 2oz. of corn or potato-flour; add 4oz. of sifted sugar and half the rind of a lemon, finely chopped, and make the whole into a stiff paste by adding half an egg. Set the paste in a cool place for thirty minutes, roll out very thin, cut it into Cakes with a plain round cutter, and dust them with a little sugar. Put the Cakes into a moderate oven, and bake until a good yellow colour ; take them out, and serve hot or cold as desired. Sand Cake with Marmalade (German).—Work the follow- ing into a stiff paste: lib. of butter well rubbed into fib. of flour, Jib. of ground almonds, 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, seven whisked eggs, and the grated peel of a lemon. Roll it out and cut into thin round slices. Put a layer of mar- malade upon each slice, place them one on top of the other, and bake very slowly. When they are about rather more than half done, take them out and pour some icing over them all, and then put back in the oven to finish baking. Savarin Cake.—By many cooks this Cake is confounded with the Baba Cake, but there is no other reason for associating the two beyond that it is just possible Brillat-Savarin, from whom the Cake derives its name, being acquainted with the Baba, sought to convert this knowledge to his own credit, an act that should have been unworthy of the great “ philosopher of taste.” (1) Rub fib. of butter into lib. of flour, then mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, and sufficient warm milk to make a dough. Knead it well’ then mix in Jib. of leaven. Blanch and chop very fine 2oz. of sweet almonds, butter the interior of a Cake-mould, and strew the chopped almonds over it, put in the Cake mixture, and set it in a warm place to rise. When well risen, put the Cake in the oven and bake it. Put J pint of water in a saucepan with Jib. of sugar, and boil it until reduced to two-thirds its original quantity, then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of rum, boil it up, and take it off the fire. TVlien cooked, turn the Cake out of the mould on to a dish, and pour the sauce oyer it. The Cake may be served either hot or cold. (2) Dissolve Joz. of German dried yeast in a basin with 1 gill of lukewarm cream. Add 4oz. of sifted flour, knead well for two minutes, and set in a warm place for five minutes. Sift into another vessel 6oz. of flour. Make a hollow in the centre and pour into it 2oz. of powdered sugar, four eggsTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 254 Per details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. 1 gill of lukewarm milk, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Knead these well for two minutes, but do not mix in the flour. Add 3oz. of melted butter and t gill of curaijoa (or any other liqueur desired), then knead in the flour with the other ingre- dients, adding the yeast dough previously laid aside, and mix with the hands, briskly beating the whole in contrary directions for twenty minutes without ceasing. Cover with a cloth and set in a warm closet to rise to double its original bulk, which will take about half-an-hour. Butter a crown- shaped mould holding about 3 pints. When ready, take 2oz. of blanched almonds, minced fine, add them to the dough, and beat well for two minutes longer. Then with a spoon drop the paste into the mould, this not being qirite filled to the top. Set aside again in the warm closet until the paste rises to the edge; then place in a moderately brisk oven for twenty-five minutes. Should the oven be slow, thirty- five minutes will be necessary. To ascertain whether the Cake is baked, thrust the point of a larding-needle into the centre, and should any dough adhere to it the Cake must be left in five minutes longer. When done, turn it out on a plain wire grating, and glaze with a syrup made as follows : Put into a sugar-pan loz. of granulated sugar with 1 table- spoonful of cold water, and let it come to the boil; remove, and add immediately 1 table-spoonful of curafoa, mixing well together. Glaze the Cake with this, then let it cool. Place a folded napkin on a dessert-dish, dress the Cake nicely on top, and serve. (3) Hot.—Prepare a Cake as above, and when turned out of the mould place it on a wire grating, but do not glaze it. Pour into a saucepan 1 pint of cold water with 5oz. of granu- lated sugar, and let it boil for five minutes. Take it off, and add immediately ^ gill of kirsch, mixing it in well. Place the grating with the savarin in a vessel, take hold of the handle of the pan, and drop the syrup carefully over the top; lift up the grating and Cake. Keturn the syrup remaining in the vessel to the pan, and boil again; return the grating and Cake to the vessel, and pour over the remaining syrup. Then, lifting the grating on one side, slide the Cake carefully on to a dessert-dish. Put into a saucepan 4oz. of candied cherries with $ gill of kirsch, stir it slightly until it comes to the boil, and decorate the top of the Cake with it, then serve. Savarin Cake a l’Anglaise.—Prepare a Cake as above; when turned out, place it on a wire grating, but do not glaze it. Cut it evenly through the centre, so as to make two equal discs. Garnish the top of the under one with apricot marma- lade, and arrang'e the other half on top as carefully as possible, so that the Cake has its original form. Have a dessert-dish with a folded napkin, dress the Cake on it, and serve with a saucebowl of whipped cream. Savoury Cake.—Beat four eggs, mix them with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour and sufficient milk to make it of a creamy consistency; mix in 1 table-spoonful of minced chives and a small quantity of salt. Butter a shallow tin, pour in the Cake mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven until richly browned. Savoy Cake.— (1) Warm -)lb. of butter without oiling it, and beat it until creamy with 2oz. of caster sugar; mix eight eggs, \ pint of milk, and fib. of flour in with the beaten eggs, and stir it vigorously for twenty minutes or more. Fig. 293. Savoy-cake Moulds. When ready, put in 1 table-spoonful of yeast, 2oz. of sultanas, and 2oz. of well-washed and dried currants; blanch lJ2oz. of almonds, and cut them into thin fillets, then thickly coat the interior of a shapely mould (see Fig. 293) with butter, and arrange the filleted' almonds round the sides and bottom; Cakes—con tinned. strew a small quantity of caster sugar over them, and pour in the batter carefully. It should only three-parts fill the mould, as room must be left for rising. Stand the mould in a warm place for two hours, or until the batter has well risen, then put it into a moderate oven and bake for an hour. When cooked, the Cake should be only lightly coloured; turn it out of the mould while hot. When the Cake is cold, dredge it over with caster sugar. (2) Take lib. of flour and fib. of caster sugar; beat up the yolks of seven eggs in a basin, adding gradually the sugar, with a little grated rind of lemon, and a little flavour- ing-such as orange-flower or rose-water. Whisk up the whites and add, then sift in the flour gradually, working all the time, and when all is added beat for twenty minutes longer. Take a mould or Cake-tin, butter it well, and sprinkle sugar over it, turning the mould or tin over so that all the sugar that does not adhere to the butter will drop out; then tie a strip of paper round the top of the mould to raise the wall of it, so that the batter will not run over when it is baking. Three-parts fill the mould, and bake for about an- hour-and-a-quarter, or perhaps a little longer, in a quick oven. (3) Slightly butter the inside of a savoy-cake mould, drain off as much of the butter as possible, let it set, and sprinkle over with caster sugar. Turn the mould round several times so that as much sugar as possible will adhere to the butter, put a band of paper round the top of the mould, and set it in a cold place while the mixture is being prepared. Break into a basin the yolks of fourteen eggs, mix in the rind of two lemons, rubbed off on lib. of sugar, beat well with a wooden spoon until the preparation is nearly white, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; mix in 6oz. each of flour and potato-flour, stirring lightly; three- parts fill the mould with the mixture, put it in a moderate oven, and bake. Take it out when done, remove the paper, turn it out on to a sieve, and serve when cold. (4) Take the yolks of ten eggs and mix them with lib. of caster sugar; put theso on the ice to get perfectly cold, as the eggs will be much finer. Then beat them well for about twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, adding the grated rind of one lemon. Take the whites and beat them until white as snow, pour them into the batter, and sift in Jib. of flonr. Butter a mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Savoy Cake with. Oranges.— This fanciful dish has only eccentricity to recommend it. It was originally prepared by Urbain Dubois for the court of Prussia. Put |lb. of caster sugar into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered orange sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and the yolks of seven eggs; beat the mixture well till frothy, then sift in gradually 3oz. of flour and 2oz. of potato-flour. Whip the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the batter, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Warm a mould and grease it with kidney fat, dust some caster sugar and potato-flour, mixed in equal quantities, over it, shaking out all that does not adhere. Three-parts fill the mould with the batter, set it on a baking-sheet that has been covered with live embers,255 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. Wben cooked, turn the Cake on to a sieve, and leave it till it has cooled. Cut a round of genoa Cake, 2in. thick, and a little larger than the savoy Cake, and bake it in a flat stewpan. Coat the surface of the round of Cake with orange icing, place it on a dish, and put the savoy Cake in the centre. Make a slight aperture in some oranges on the sides near the stem, and empty them with a vegetable-spoon; when quite cleared, stop up any holes in the rind with butter and place the orange-peels on powdered ice. Fill the hollows of the oranges with alternate layers of blanc-mange and slightly reddened orange-jelly. When the mixture in the oranges is firm, divide them into quarters from top to bottom, cut an end off each of the quarters so that they will stand upright, surround the savoy Cake with small baskets made out of mandarines, and garnish the base of the round of Cake with the imitation oranges (see Fig. 294) and serve. School Cake.—(1) Mix together 21b. of flour and Jib. of moist sugar; make a hollow or bay in the centre, and put in 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast and J pint of warmed milk; knead it well, and put in a warm place to rise. Dissolve Jib. of butter in a little warm milk, and mix with the dough when it has risen; wash and well dry ljlb. of currants, chop a little mixed candied peel, and add to the dough with 1 tea- spoonful of powdered allspice and the grated rind of one lemon. When thoroughly mixed, put it in a buttered tin and set in a warm place to rise. Bake in a moderate oven. (2) Into lib. of flour mix thoroughly Jib. of brown sugar, Jib. of butter, warmed, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and after all are thoroughly incorporated add Jib. of well-cleaned and dried currants, and mix again. Place the paste in a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Scotch Cakes.—(1) Put Jib. of butter in a basin and work it to a cream, then add lib. of flour, dried and sifted, lib. of caster sugar, and 1 teacupful of milk. Make it into a dough, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut it into Cakes with a biscuit-cutter, and bake until they are lightly coloured. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of sifted flour; mix in lib. of caster sugar and 1 large table-spoonful of powdered cin- namon, and make into a dough with three well-beaten eggs. Roll it out into a sheet, cut it in round Cakes, and bake them in a quick oven; they will require but a few minutes to bake. (3) Rub 12oz. of lard into 3Jlb. of flour, mix in 12oz. of sugar and Joz. of volatile salt, adding sufficient milk to dissolve the sugar and salt. Roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, cut out with a small round cutter, dock each one well, and pinch round the edges with the thumb and finger. Put them on wiped but not greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Scrap Cakes.—These are made with a breakfast-cupful of the browned scraps which are left after pork-fat has been rended down, minced small, put into a basin, and rubbed into Jib. of flour. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, Jib. of currants, washed and dried, Joz. of finely-chopped candied peel, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt, all mixed together and moistened with a sufficient quantity of water to make a light paste. Roll out the paste, and cut it into Cakes with a round biscuit-cutter. Put them on a baking- sheet, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. A tea- spoonful of baking-powder makes these Cakes a little lighter. Sea Cakes.—Take lib. of ground almonds. Rub the yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs through a fine sieve. Make a smooth paste with the eggs, almonds, and lib. of sugar, Jib. of warmed butter, the zest (grated peel) of two lemons, Jib. of flour, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and a little milk. Roll out the paste to Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a biscuit- cutter. Brush the Cakes over with egg, and bake in a slack oven till done. Short Cakes.—(1) Large.—Rub lOoz. of butter into lib. of sifted flour until quite absorbed, and then add Joz. of salt and Joz. of caster sugar. Make a bay in the flour, and pour in J pint of water; mix with the hands until all the water is taken up, and then sprinkle over the top another gill of water and mix to a smooth paste. Knead the paste well, gather it j Cakes—continued. together, and let it stand for one hour. Roll it out about 1 Jin. thick, and round it; press the edges with your finger, and with a knife make cuts across the Cake, about Jin apart and Jin. deep. Butter a baking-sheet, place the Cake upon it, and brush over the top with beaten egg. See Fig. 295. Fig. 295. Short Cake. (2) Prepare a puff paste with lib. of flour and Jib. of butter; roll it out the last time to a very thin layer, cut it into about four equal-sized pieces, trimming them either to a square or round shape. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the pieces of paste on it, and bake them in a brisk oven. Stew about ljlb. of strawberries with sugar and a very small quantity of water, and when sufficiently cooked turn them into a basin and leave until cold. When the Cakes are baked and have got quite cold, spread a layer of the strawberries over one, put another Cake on the top of that, which also spread with the strawberries; proceed the same with the next Cake, and cover with the remaining one. Sift caster sugar over the top of the Cake, place it on a fancy dish, and serve. Preserved strawberries may be used if fresh ones are unattainable (3) Small.—Mix J teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, in 1 pint of sifted flour. Rub in 2oz. of butter until it is absorbed, then add gradually J pint of milk or cold water, mixing with a knife. Turn it out on to a well-floured paste-board, and toss with the knife until floured ; pat it into a flat Cake, and roll till Jin. thick. Cut it into Cakes with a small round cutter, and put them quite close together on a greased baking-sheet, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. (4) Take lib. of flour, and rub Jib. of well-washed butter into it; then add one egg, well whisked, Jib. of powdered sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and sufficient milk to make a light smooth paste. Roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness, cut it into various shapes with biscuit-cutters, and bako on a floured baking-sheet still nico and crisp. (5) Put into a basin 1 pint of flour, and make a hollow, or bay as it is called, in the centre, but not to the bottom of the flour; then dissolve J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teaspoonful of boiling water, and put it into 1 breakfast-cupful of thick sour milk, and mix well in 3oz. of butter worked to a cream, and a little salt. Pour this into the bay in the flour, and mix to a smooth paste. Flour the table or board, and roll the paste out to the thickness of Jin. Cut it into various shapes with biscuit-cutters, and bake in a brisk oven until quite done. (6) Take lib. of ground rice and rub into it 6oz. of well- washed butter, or fresh if preferred; add a little salt, and suffi- cient water to make a paste. Roll this out, cut into shapes, and bake on greased or floured baking-sheets. (7) Warm 1 pint of milk and dissolve Jib. of fresh butter in it, then add sufficient flour to make a light smooth paste. Roll this out to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it with a large round cutter into Cakes. Put them on baking-sheets, and bake for about ten or fifteen minutes. Shrewsbury Cakes.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter into lloz. of flour; when quite smooth, add lib. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and two small eggs. Mix well together, using a little water to make it into a paste; roll it out thin, and cut out with a circular biscuit-cutter. Butter some plates, put the Cakes on, and bake in a brisk oven. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into ljlb. of flour; add Jib. of caster sugar, and when quite smooth mix in the white of one and the yolks of three eggs, then make into a paste with the addP;on of a little water. Roll out into thin sheets, and cut we paste into rounds about the size of the top of a wineglass. Arrange them on buttered tins, and bake a golden colour in a slow oven.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 256 For details respecting Culinary Processes„ Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. (3) Mis 2 breakfast-cupfuls of butter, lib. of caster sugar, 3 pints of flour, four eggs, and J teaspoonful of ground mace into a paste. Boll tbin, cut into small Cakes with a round biscuit-cutter, and bake in a quick oven. The Cakes should be made in a rather cool room, and they cannot be made in very warm weather. They can be kept a long time, and are very fine eating. (4) Put 21b. of flour and lib. of caster sugar into a basin; then add a little finely-powdered cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, and loz. of caraway-seeds. Beat all these well together, and add the yolks of two eggs, then the whites, and Jib. of butter warmed to melting. Make into a stiff dough. When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness, and stamp it out into Cakes with a biscuit-cutter. Dock, or prick them over with a fork. Flour over some baking-sheets, put them on, and bake in a quick oven. Currants are sometimes used instead of caraway-seeds. (5) Mix lib. of sugar with 31b. of flour, a grated nutmeg, and three eggs into a dough, adding only sufficient warmed butter with a little rose-water to make it stiff. Boll out the dough Jin. thick, cut it into Cakes, and bake in a quick oven. (6) Beat ilb. of warm butter to a cream and add to it gradually Jib. of flour, one egg, 6oz. of pounded loaf sugar, Joz. of caraway-seeds, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped citron- peel. Mix all these into a stiff paste with milk. Boll it out into thin flats, cut out with a biscuit-cutter, put these on greased baking-sheets, and bake in a slow oven. Silver Cake.—(1) Warm Jib. of butter to melting, and work into fib. of flour and lib. of powdered sugar flavoured with 1 tea- spoonful of essence of almonds, and make into a dough with the whites of eleven eggs beaten to a froth. Put into a suitable greased tin and bake. Ice over with an icing flavoured with almonds. (2) Mix the whites of six eggs with J breakfast-cupful of butter, f breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Make into a paste, put in a buttered mould, and bake quickly. (3) Take 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of butter, the whites of three eggs, J breakfast-cupful of corn- flour, stirred smoothly into nearly J breakfast-cupful of milk, 1J breakfast-cupfuls of flour, J teaspoonful of cream of tartar, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and vanilla or almond flavour. Work the butter to a cream, and gradually beat in the sugar; then add the flavouring. Mix the flour, cream of tartar, and soda together, and sift. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the cornflour and milk to the beaten sugar and butter, then add the whites of the eggs and the flour. Mix quickly and thoroughly. Put the batter in greased sheets about 2in. deep, and bake in a moderate oven for about half- an-hour. A chocolate icing goes well with this Cake. (4) Warm Jib. of butter and Jib. of sugar, and work into 6oz. of flour; mix well together with the whites of eight eggs whisked to a froth. Put into a greased tin and bake. Simple Cakes.—Take Jib. of flour and rub Jib. of butter into it; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, a little salt, and one egg well whisked. Mix all well together, and roll out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut it into various fancy shapes with biscuit-cutters, and bake on tins in a moderate oven till coloured. Sly Cakes.—Mix loz. of sugar with Jib. of flour ; add to this only sufficient cold water to make it into a smooth, stiff paste; roll it out three times, spreading 2oz. of butter on iteach time, folding and rolling it in as for pastry. When the third 2oz. of butter are folded in, roll it out very thin and cut it into small rounds or squares about 2Jin. or 3in. in diameter. Have ready Jib. of washed and dried currants, spread half of the little pieces of paste pretty thickly with them, lay the other half on top of them, one on each, pressing them gently so as to form a sandwich. Bake in a quick oven. They should be nicely browned. Small Cakes. -— Into ljlb. of flour rub ljlb. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lard; then add ljlb. of fine moist sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, and make these ingredients into a dough with J pint of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Boll Cakes—continued. out the dough thin on a floured paste-board, cut into shapes, and dip the face of each Cake in granulated sugar. Bake slowly on greased baking-sheets. Snow Cakes.—(1) Large.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin and beat it to a cream, using the back of a wooden spoon; add Jib. of powdered white sugar, and beat with the spoon for five minutes longer. Break two eggs, beat them till they are quite light, and add to them J teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Add the eggs and vanilla to the butter and sugar, and mix them well together, then mix in lightly lib. of potato-flour. Have a shallow square tin lined with buttered paper, put the Cake into it, and spread it smoothly over. Bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. When the Cake is out of the oven and has cooled a little, cut it into square pieces and take it out of the tin. (2) Sift through a fine sieve lib. of arrowroot to free it from lumps. Beat together to a cream Jib. of butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar; add to this by degrees the arrow- root, and continue beating it for a little time. Then beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs and stir them in. After all the egg froth is added, continue beating for twenty minutes till the mixture is a smooth white batter, then add 1 teaspoon- ful of essence of lemon. Butter the inside of a Cake-tin, pour the batter into it, and bake in not too hot an oven for an-hour-and-a-half. (3) Cream Goz. of white butter with 7oz. of caster sugar ; add the whites of nine eggs, not previously beaten, Jib. of flour, and 5oz. of cornflour. Beat all well together, and then add 1 teaspoonful of milk and juice of half a lemon. When thoroughly mixed turn it into a shallow tin, buttered and floured, but do not fill the tin by half. Bake lightly. (4) Small.—Take the whites of ten eggs, 1J breakfast- cupfuls of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, salt, and any flavouring desired. Bub the flour, cream of tartar, sugar, and salt well together. Add the eggs, beaten till light, and stir only suflicient to mix very lightly. Put into greased moulds, and bake in a quick oven. (5) Take f breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of milk, 2J breakfast-cupfuls of pastry flour, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1J teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, the whites of eight eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of almond flavouring. Mix the soda and cream of tartar with the flour. Be sure to use 1J teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, as the extra amount is intended to stiffen the whites of the eggs. Bub the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat again; add the milk and flour alternately, a little at a time, and beat well. Lastly, add the beaten whites and the almond flavouring. Bake in two small buttered pans in a moderate oven. (6) Take Jib. of well-washed butter, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding slowly Jib. of arrowroot, 1 teacnpful of caster sugar, a little salt, and either lemon, vanilla, or almond flavouring. Put the whites of three eggs in a basin, and whisk them until they are like snow ; then put them into the arrowroot, and whisk again until the batter is quite light and white. Pour it on to a shallow baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. When it is done cut it into 2in. squares. Caster sugar may be dusted over the top of these Cakes. (7) Put Jib. of cornflour on a plate, and mix into it J tea- spoonful of baking-powder. Beat three eggs in a basin till they are quite light, then mix with them 1 teacupful of milk. Put 3oz. of butter into a larger basin, together with 3oz. of sugar, and beat these to a cream, using the back of a wooden spoon; add and beat into this a little cornflour, and then a little of the beaten egg-and-milk, and continue in this way, adding and beating in cornflour and egg alternately, a little at a time, till all is mixed in the butter and sugar. Then last of all add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Have some small tins ready greased, half fill them with the mixture, and bake for about ten minutes. Snowball Cakes.—In making these Cakes ball-shaped moulds (see Fig. 29G), about the size of oranges, are required, which must open into halves upon a hinge and have holes pierced in them close together, like a fine sieve. Having obtained these moulds the Cake is to be made as follows : Sift Jib. of flour on to a board or table and make a bay in it; pour J wineglassful of white wine into the bay. Then add the yolks of three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix the flour in257 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. luces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads, Cakes—continued. gradually from the sides so as to make a smooth paste, give it six turns as for puff paste, and divide it into twelve equal- sized pieces; roll out each piece into thin round flats. Mark each round in strips with a pastry-roulette, taking care not Fig. 296. Mould for Snowball Cake. to cut through to the edge of the round; then take them up with the handle of a wooden spoon, threading it between the cuts, and drop into the moulds, closing them when full. Put the moulds into boiling fat for six minutes, then take them out and drain on a sieve; open the moulds, take out the Cakes, and roll them in vanilla-flavoured sugar. Keep the Cakes in a warm place and dish them piled up in an orna- mental paste basket (see Pig. 297) or glass dish. Snowflake Cake.—Take J breakfast-cupful of butter, 1J break- fast-cupfuls of caster sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour, i breakfast-cupful of milk, the whites of five eggs, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or H teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the butter to a cream. Gradually add the sugar, then the lemon, and when very light the milk and whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; then the flour, in which the soda and cream of tartar are well mixed. Bake on a greased sheet in a moderate oven. When nearly cool, pour icing over the top. Soda Cakes.—(1) Large. —Mix 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with lib. of flour, and rub into it Jib. of warm butter ; when quite smooth add three eggs, previously beaten, Jib. of currants washed and dried, Jib. of caster sugar, and a few bruised caraway-seeds. When thoroughly mixed, put in a buttered tin and bake. (2)_ To make a richer Cake Jib. of butter and Jib. of minced candied peel may be used ; loz. of ground sweet almonds may be substituted for the raisins (or currants), but if this is used a little more bicarbonate of soda will be necessary, and the Cake must be baked immediately it is made. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cakes—con tinned. (3) Bub ilb. of butter into ilb. of flour mixed with J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Add 6oz. of well-washed and dried currants, ioz. of candied peel cut into small pieces, and ilb. of sugar; mix all these well together, and then add two well-beaten eggs mixed with J pint of milk, and stir them well together. Bake in a buttered tin in not too hot an oven. (4) Line a Cake-tin with buttered paper. Then put into a basin lib. of flour, 6oz. of butter, 6oz. of sugar, and with the hands rub the butter well into the flour and sugar, and then mix in fib. of washed and dried currants. Put 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and J teaspoonful of tartaric acid on a plate,- and with the back of a spoon crush out all the lumps, rub it quite smooth, and mix in with the other ingre- dients. Beat up two eggs with J pint of milk, and mix all together with this. Put the Cake as quickly as possible into the lined Cake-tin, place it immediately in a moderate oven, and bake for nearly two hours. (5) Dip a Cake-tin in boiling water, rub it dry quickly and line it with greased paper. Put lib. of flour into a large bowl with ilb. of butter and 2oz. of lard, and rub the butter and lard well into the flour with the hands. Then put 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda on to a plate, and with the back of a spoon crush all the lumps and work it quite smooth; add it to the flour together with Jib. of washed and dried currants, 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of candied lemon-peel cut into small pieces. Mix all these well in. Break two eggs in a bowl, beat them till they are very light, and add to them the juice of half a lemon and J pint of milk. Pour this into the flour and other in- gredients, mixing it quickly and lightly into a dough. Put as quickly as possible into the tin and let it bake in a quick oven for the first twenty minutes, then put it in a cooler part of the oven and let bake for an hour longer. Eun a sharp knife into the middle of the Cake, if it is dry when taken out the Cake is done, but if the knife comes out sticky let the Cake stay in the oven a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. (6) Sift 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and lib. of flour together, then rub in Jib. of slightly-warmed butter, add three well-beaten eggs, Jib. of washed and dried currants, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of minced candied peel, and a pinch of powdered caraway-seeds. Work the ingredients till well mixed. Line a Cake-tin with strips of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. (7) Small.—Eub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, adding Jib. of stoned raisins (or Jib. of currants), a quarter of a grated nutmeg, Jib. of caster sugar, and a little salt. Mix all these well together, then dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda in 1 gill of warm milk. Beat up three eggs and add them to the milk, whisking well all the time. Add this to the dry mixture, and beat again for five minutes; then pour it into tins, lined with oiled or buttered paper, put it in the oven and bake for from one-and-a-half to one- and-three-quarter hours. (8) Two eggs well beaten, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of flour, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little of the milk, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar dissolved in a little water. Make into a batter and bake in buttered moulds. (9) Sift 2oz. of cream of tartar and loz. of bicarbonate of soda with 41b. of flour, and rub into this 4oz. of lard; make a bay and work in a little more than Joz. of salt and sufficient churned milk to make a dough. Form the dough when well worked with a biscuit-break into rounds about the size of a small saucer, brush them over with milk, dock them, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out when done, and serve cold. Souffle Cake -with Punch.—Beat the yolks of ten eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of crushed ratafias, 2 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour, Joz. of candied orange-flowers, and 1 pinch of salt. When the above ingre- dients are well beaten together, whip the whites of the°ten eggs and stir them in. Thickly butter the inside of a plain oval mould, sprinkle some stale breadcrumbs therein, and pour in the. mixture; butter a strip of paper about 2Jin. broad, sprinkle breadcrumbs over it, and tie it round the" top of the mould so that when the mixture rises it will not go over. Put the mould in a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. Make a custard flavoured with maraschino, and mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of punch. When the Cake is baked sufficientlyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 258 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. let it stand to cool, and then turn it on to an oval dish; pour the custard over it, and serve hot. Spanish Cakes. — (1) Large. — Mix Jib. of ground sweet almonds and 1 table-spoonful of bitter ones into Jib. of flour, 6oz. of caster sugar, and Joz. of cinnamon ground to a powder. Then whisk up six eggs, and put them into a chocolate mill, adding very slowly all the other articles, and also 2 table- spoonfuls of any light wine and the same quantity of rose- water. After every separate ingredient has been added, they should be milled before another is put in, so as to get it well mixed, and, when all is added, mill it once or twice again until it is quite light. Put the Cake in a buttered pan, and bake in a slow oven until quite done. (2) Small.—Place a clean saucepan over the fire and put into it Jib. of well-washed butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pint of water, and a little salt; stir until it begins to boil, then take it off the fire and sift into it 5oz. of dry flour, stirring it well until a moderately stiff, smooth paste is formed. Beat in three well-whisked eggs, one at a time, and any kind of flavouring desired. Take the paste out in small pieces, and form them with the hand into round balls about the size of a walnut; wipe them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped almonds which have been tossed in a little of the white of an egg and caster sugar. When ready, bake in a slow oven until of a light brown colour. Before being sent to table they should be cut open, and a spoonful of any kind of jam put in, which is a great improvement. (3) Rub 6oz. of butter into lib. of flour, and mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 pinch of salt. Work in two well-whisked eggs, and form a stiff dough. Roll out to Jin. in thickness, and cut it with biscuit-cutters into various shapes, and bake for fifteen minutes in a steady oven. Special Cakes.—Take Jib. of baked flour and put it into a basin with the same amount of caster sugar, 2oz. of ground almonds, and 2oz. of chopped citron-peel; moisten these with six well-beaten eggs, and add for flavouring about 30 drops of essence of vanilla, and J wineglassful of cura^oa, mixed in the first place with Jib. of warmed butter, and then with the other materials in the basin, and beat all together for a few minutes. Wash Jib. of currants, wipe them dry in a cloth, and while mixing the other ingredients sprinkle them in. Partly fill some small fluted moulds, buttered, and put them in a very quick oven as soon after being made as possible. When they are nearly done, ice the tops over with a mixture of 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, one egg, and 4 or 5 drops of vanilla. Leave them in the oven for twenty minutes altogether. They may be served either hot or cold. Spider Cake.—Sift lqt. of flour with 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; or, in place of the soda and cream of tartar, use 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Chop Jib. of butter into the flour, and then quickly make it into a dough stiff enough to mould with about 1 pint of milk or cold water. If sour milk is used, the baking-powder or cream of tartar should be omitted, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in the sour milk. Have ready two old-fashioned iron spiders, or a large griddle, well buttered, and placed over the fire; make the dough into two round Cakes, put it in the buttered pans, and slowly brown the under-side over a moderate fire; the Cake must be frequently lifted from the pan with a Cake- turner or a broad-bladed knife to prevent burning, and enough butter must be used to keep it from sticking to the pan; when the under-side is browned, turn the Cake, and brown the other side. When the Cake is done, split it, butter it, lay it together again, cut into quarters, and serve hot. Spider Cake with Bilberries.—Pick over lqt. of bilberries, wash in cold water, drain quite dry, and dust them with flour; sift together lib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder. Into the flour chop Jib. of butter, and add the berries. See that the fire is good, and put an iron spider over it, with 1 table-spoonful of butter in it; next mix the flour and berries to a soft dough, with just enough sweet milk to form it; put the dough into the spider, making the Cake about fin. thick, and set it over a moderate fire to bake. Unless the spider is large, a second one must be used, Cakes—continued. in order to have the Cake the proper thickness. Bake the Cake slowly for about ten minutes on each side, shaking it about in the pan, and turning it to prevent burning; before serving try it to be sure it is done, and then serve it hot with plenty of butter. Spider-Cake Toast.—While cold spider Cake is being toasted a delicate brown, make a sauce as follows; For each Cake allow a full pint of sauce, and for each pint of sauce mix together over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour until they bubble ; then mix smoothly into them 1 pint of milk and | pint of cream ; let this sauce boil for a moment, season with salt, and then pour it over the toasted spider Cake, and serve at once. Sponge Cakes.—(1) Large.—Boil fib. of lump sugar in 1 teacupful of boiling water; when boiling pour it over six eggs, whisk for half-an-hour, sift in gradually 2 table-spoonfuls Fig. 293. Moulds used for large Sponge Cakes (Mathews and Son). of flour, grate the rind of one lemon and mix in. When well worked together put in a greased mould of any suitable shape (see Fig. 298) and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or a little longer if required. (2) Beat well the yolks of seven eggs and add lib. of caster sugar; then add the whites of fourteen eggs, and stir in very lightly Jib. of Vienna flour. Beat very little after putting in the flour. Put in a buttered mould and bake quickly. (3) Ten eggs, 2J breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, 2J breakfast- cupfuls of pastry-flour, the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar together until very light, add the lemon, beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir the flour and the whites of eggs alternately into the beaten yolks and sugar. Pour the batter about 3in. deep in a baking-tin, sprinkle with sugar, and hake for three-quarters-of an-hour in a moderate oven. If the batter is not so deep in the pan it will not take so long to bake. (4) The yolks of a dozen eggs, the whites of eight, lj breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, the same quantity of flour, the rind of one lemon, and the juice of two. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add the lemon rind and juice, and beat a little longer; beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add them to the mixture. Gradually stir in the flour, pour the mixture into a Cake-tin to the depth of about 2in., and bake from thirty-five to forty minutes in a slow oven. (5) Beat the yolks of three eggs ; add 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of lemon juice, and 1 table- spoonful of cold water, or a lump of ice melted in the lemon juice to make 2 table-spoonfuls of liquid. Add the whites,259 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads, Cakes—continued. beaten stiff, and 1 breakfast-cupful of pastry-flour. Pour into a greased mould, and bake quickly. (6) Take twelve eggs, lib. of caster sugar, Jib. of flour, the juice of one lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of good vinegar. Beat the yolks with the sugar, then add the whites and again beat well; add the flour, and after adding it do not beat it longer than is required to stir it in; add the lemon and vinegar just before putting into the buttered mould. When the Cake is eaten hot, lemon-flavoured sauce may be served with it. (7) Warm 6oz. of butter without oiling it, then beat it with lib. of caster sugar until creamy. Thoroughly whisk the yolks of ten eggs, beat them gradually in with the butter, then add lib. of sifted flour and the grated peel and juice of one lemon. Work these ingredients until well mixed: whip the whites of the ten eggs and stir them in lightly. Butter the interior of rather a large mould and pour in the mixture. It should only three-parts fill the mould. Blanch 2oz. of almonds, and lay them on top of the batter, then cover with coarsely-pounded sugar. Bake the Cake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the mould, and let it get quite cold before serving. (8) Put into a copper basin lib. of powdered sugar; break in seven eggs, and grate in the rind of half a lemon. Beat well together with a wire whisk for one minute, place on a slow fire and heat it slightly, stirring sharply and continually. Take it from the fire, and beat well until thoroughly cold. Remove the whisk, and with a skimmer mix in carefully and slowly 11b. of well-sifted flour; two-minutes-and-a-half will be sufficient. Butter the interior of a lqt. round Cake-mould, and line it with paper, keeping it llin. higher than the mould. Pill it with the preparation, and bake for one-hour-and-a- quarter in a moderate oven. Let it cool thoroughly for two hours, and then turn out. Place it on a pastry wire grating, and glaze with vanilla-flavoured chocolate icing. Serve on a dish covered with a fancy paper. (9) Rub the inside of a smooth Cake-pan, or plain charlotte- mould, with olive oil or melted butter, and dust it thickly with powdered sugar. Sift 6oz. of flour, grate the yellow rind of a lemon, and separate the whites from the yolks of twelve eggs; sift 2oz. of powdered sugar, and beat 4oz. more of powdered sugar with the yolks until they are thick and creamy. If possible, have a second person beating the whites, or beat them to a stiff froth, and lightly mix with them the 2oz. of sugar; then quickly and lightly mix, without beating, a third of the flour with the yolks, then a third of the whites, then more flour and whites, until all are used; add the grated rind during the mixing. The motion of mixing must be very light, rather cutting down through the Cake batter than beating it. Beating the eggs makes them light, but beating the batter makes the Cake tough. As soon as the Cake is mixed, turn it into the pan, and bake in a moderate oven until a straw run into it can be withdrawn clean. (10) A rich Cake is made with four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 teacupfuls of caster sugar, £ pint of sweet cream, and lib. of flour mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Add the whites of eggs last thing before the flour, then stir that in gently, without beating, and make into a paste. Put it into a buttered tin and bake lightly. (11) Small.—Put in a bowl, warmed by standing in the oven for a minute or two, eight eggs and fib. of caster sugar; beat well for five minutes, and then add gradually Jib. of flour. Butter some sponge-cake tins and dust a little caster sugar in them; put about 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each tin (see Fig. 299), sift caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a rather quick oven. (12) Whip five eggs and Jib. of caster sugar, and stand the basin in another with hot water in it; when you have whisked it until it is a thick white froth sift in gradually 3oz. of dried flour. Grease and dust a little flour in some tins, and half fill them with the mixture. Bake in a steady oven for about thirty minutes. (13) Stand a basin in one containing hot water and whisk in seven large eggs and fib. of caster sugar; beat well for about ten minutes, then stir in Jib. of flour. Butter some tins and dust a little caster sugar in them; put about } table-spoonful of the mixture in each, sift a little caster sugar over the tops, and bake in a brisk oven. Cakes—continued. (14) Make a syrup by boiling Jib. of loaf sugar in J pint of water, and while still hot pour it on to six eggs that have been whisked, the whites and yolks separately. Beat the eggs and syrup for about twenty minutes, or until they become a thick batter, and then mix in lightly lOoz. of Vienna flour. Butter some tins and dust a little caster sugar in them, three-parts fill them with the mixture, sift a little sugar on the tops, and bake in a moderate oven. Flat. Cup Shapes. Fig. 299. Tins used for small Sponge Cakes (Mathews and Son). (15) Beat thoroughly together 14oz. of caster sugar and twelve eggs, then sift in slowly 12oz. of flour. Put this into buttered tins and bake for half-an-hour. (16) Grate the peel of half a lemon and mix with 5oz. of flour. Beat with a fork six eggs in a basin, the juice of half a lemon, and 6oz. of caster sugar ; when whipped light, stir in the flour and lemon-peel. Butter some Cake-moulds, fill with the mixture, and bake about twenty minutes. Sponge Cake (Berwick).—Beat 1 teacupful of caster sugar with the yolks of three eggs, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice in 1 teacupful of water, then mix with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and Jib. of flour. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a froth and mix altogether, making a good dough. Put into round tins, and bake in a quick oven. When cool, split, and fill with whipped sweet cream. Sponge Cake (Butter).—Put Jib. of sifted crushed loat sugar into a basin, work in four or five eggs, beat in Jib. of warmed butter, pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder mixed in with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. When the preparation is thoroughly mixed, turn it into a buttered shallow tin, and bake. Take it out when done, turn it out of the tin, and cover with a meringue made of 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar to each white of egg. Let the Cake get cold and the sugar icing set, and it is then ready for use. 2 c 2260 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. Sponge Cake a la Chantilly.—Take a stale sponge Cake, cut off the top, scoop out the inside, leaving a wall fin. thick; put this on a glass dish, fill the hollow with |lb. of cherries (stoned and the stalks taken off), pour over them a wineglassful of brandy, and then put on the top of the Cake. Put % pint of rich cream and loz. of powdered white sugar into a large bowl, and with an egg-whisk whip the cream to a stiff froth, add to this half-a-dozen drops of essence of vanilla, and pour it over the Cake just before serving. Sponge-Cake Cream Ice.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs with fib. of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar. Put six sponge Cakes in a slow oven till dried, then crush them. Boil 1 pint of cream and i pint of milk together, then stir it gradually in with the beaten yolks of eggs, Cakecrumbs, and sugar; return it to the saucepan, and stir by the side of the fire till thick, but without allowing it to boil. Strain the custard into a basin, mix 1 wineglassful of vanilla liqueur with it, turn it into a freezing-pot, and work it till frozen. Turn the ice into a fancy-shaped mould, put the lid on, and pack it in pounded ice, leaving it about two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the ice out on to a fancy dish. Sponge-Cake Pritters.—Cut into slices lfin. in thickness lib. of stale sponge Cake; pour over a little cream, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them ; arrange them on a dish over strawberry or other preserve, and serve. Sponge-Cake Ring -with Cream.—Put £lb. of pounded orange or vanilla sugar with the yolks of six eggs, and beat them until well frothed, add also saltspoonful of salt. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them lightly with the yolks; stir in smoothly 3oz. of sifted flour, and 3 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour. Butter the interior of a high-shaped savarin-mould, dust it over with potato-flour and caster sugar, shaking out all that does Fig. 300. Sponge-caicb Bing Filled with Whipped Cream. not adhere to the butter, then pour in the mixture, place it in a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Cake out of the mould, and let it cool. Coat the Cake with a thin layer of marmalade, and afterwards with orange-flavoured icing. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with caster sugar and whip it to a stiff froth. When the icing is dry, put the Cake on a round glass or china dish, pour the whipped cream in the centre, and serve. See Pig. 300. Sponge Cake ■with. Bum.—Put 4oz. of caster sugar into a basin with one egg; work them with a wooden spoon, and beat in gradually the yolks of three eggs. When well beaten, mix with the eggs 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter, and the well- whipped whites of three eggs; add 2oz. of flour, an equal quantity of potato-flour, £ wineglassful of rum, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Brush the interior of a flat mould with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, dust the mould over with potato-flour, and shake out all that does not adhere to the butter. Pour the mixture into the mould, which should be just large enough to allow a little room at the top for rising. Put it in a slack oven and bake for about half-an-hour. Turn the Cake out of the mould, let it Cakes—continued. cool, then coat it over, first with a thin layer of orange marma- lade, and afterwards with rum icing. When the icing is dry, place the Cake on a dish over which has been placed a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, and serve. See Fig. 301. Whipped cream may be served with it. Sponge-Cake Swiss Roll.—Six eggs, 1)- teacupfuls of flour, 1 teacupful of caster sugar, and the grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat the eggs separately and very light. Do not beat the batter much after adding the flour, which must be done last of all. Get a square baking-pan, butter it, and pour one-half the batter in, reserving the rest for a second layer. Have ready a damp towel, on which lay the Cake when taken out of the pan; spread over the Cake jam or currant jelly, roll it up whilst damp, and when firmly set put it in a place to dry. It is good eaten with sauce when for a dinner- dish, or it can be cut in slices and eaten as small Cakes. Take care that the oven is very hot when the Cake is put in, and do not keep the second half waiting longer than necessary. Stag-Horn Cakes.—Put the yolks of six eggs and one whole egg into a basin and whip them well; then mix in a little more than 1 teacupful of cream, the grated peel of one lemon, 1 table- spoonful of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, |lb. of caster sugar, and sufficient flour to form the whole into a stiff paste. Dredge flour over a paste-board, put the paste on it, knead it, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut the paste into the shape of horns with a tin cutter shaped for that purpose. Put a large piece of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the pieces of paste and fry them on both sides until a pale golden colour; as the pieces of paste are cooked take them out of the fat and lay them on paper near the fire, to drain. When all are done, put them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew a small quantity of powdered cinnamon or caster sugar over them, and serve. Strawberry Cake.—Bub well lib. of butter into 21b. of flour, add lib. of loaf sugar, a pinch of ground mace, six well- beaten eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of wine to flavour. Put into a buttered tin, and bake quickly. Strewed Cake.—Dissolve 2oz. of dry yeast in J pint of luke- warm milk, then mix in gradually sufficient flour to make a light dough. Cover the dough and put it in a warm place until well risen. Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it with 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar; when creamy beat in, one at the time, six eggs ; flavour with the grated peel of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; sift in ljlb. of flour, and stir in slowly sufficient milk to make a light dough. Work in at the last the yeast dough and beat thoroughly together Procure a flat tin with a raised edge all round it, dredge it over with flour, and roll the dough out on it, making it about Jin. thick. Cover the dough lightly with a cloth and set it in a warm place to rise. Warm 2oz. of butter, and woi-k it well with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2oz. of flour, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Chop the mixture of butter, &c., into small pieces, dredging it occasionally with flour and sugar, and strew them over the dough. Bake the Cake until lightly browned in a brisk oven, and when cooked put it on a hot dish and serve.261 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cakes—continued. Stuffed Cakes.—Boll out fib. of puff paste to about fin. in thickness, cut out twelve pieces with a round plain paste- cutter, 3|in. in diameter, then roll out the trimmings, and cut twelve more rounds out with a 3in. paste-cutter. Make a stiff marmalade of apples, and put a small piece in the centre of the smaller rounds, and a preserved cherry on the top; moisten the edges lightly, then put the larger round over, and press it down round the edges with the rim of the smaller cutter, and cut them round with it; sprinkle water lightly over, put a small ring of puff paste on the top of each, sprinkle some coarsely-ground loaf sugar on the top, and bake them in a moderate oven, taking care to keep them as light a colour as possible. When cold, put a preserved cherry in each ring, arrange them on a dish, and servo. Sully Cakes.—(1) Mix with 8 breakfast-cupfuls of flour fib. of butter warmed to melting and fib. of lard; add 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, lflb. of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of bruised coriander-seeds to the flour before working in the butter and lard. Make into a dough with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk and six eggs beaten together. Divide into small Cakes, set on a greased baking-sheet, and put into a quick oven. (2) Put fib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work it with the hand to a cream; then sift in lib. of flour, fib. of caster sugar, and add three well-whisked eggs. Use sufficient milk to form a dough. The milk and flour should be added a little of each at a time, and well mixed before another lot is put in. Boll out the paste, and cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter. Flour a tin, put the Cakes on it, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Sultana Cake.—Before making the Cake a tin should be lined with greased paper and the oven should be ready, so that there may be no delay in baking the Cako as soon as it is mixed. Put lib. of flour into a basin, and with the hands rub into it fib. of butter, add the grated rinds of two lemons and 2oz. of candied citron cut small. Bub fib. of sultana raisins in a cloth till they are quite clean and perfectly free from stems, then mix them also into the flour in the basin, mixing in at the same time 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Put four eggs and fib. of powdered white sugar into a basin and beat them until they are very light; mix with them 1 teacupful of milk, and with this mix the flour, &c., in the other basin, beating it well together; then, as quickly as possible, pour it into the paper-lined tin, put it into not too hot an oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Sunshine Cake.—(1) Make the same as for Angel Cake, but using 1 teaspoonful of essence of orange-peel instead of vanilla/ and adding the well-beaten yolks of six eggs to the beaten whites and sugar before adding the flour. (2) Have ready the whites of eleven eggs and yolks of six, If breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and 1 toaspoonful each of cream of tartar and essence of orange. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in the sugar. Beat the yolks in a similar manner, and add to them the whites, sugar, and flavouring. Finally stir in the flour. Mix quickly and well. Put into a shallow baking-dish and bake for fifty minutes in a slow oven. Surprise Cygnet Cake.—To the groat Soyer we are indebted for many marvellous dishes, but the following is not less worthy of attention than others: Make a large sponge Cake, using forty eggs, and bake about two-hours-and-a-half in a large shallow tin dish or dish-cover; the next day shape it with a knife to resemble the body of a swan, leaving a space down the front of the breast for the neck. Cut out the interior from the bottom to within lin. of the surface; :ce it over with white royal icing, and when the icing is almost set mark it in imitation feathers with the prongs of a fork. Shape the neck and head out of confectioners’ paste, cut the neck in halves lengthwise and lay it, the cut sides down, on a buttered baking-sheet. Model each half of tho head separately, and lay it the same way as the neck, that is the flat side downwards. Bake these in a moderate oven. When done, join them together with a paste made of white of egg and flour, scrape the bottom of the neck quite flat, ice it over with white icing, and, when on the verge of setting, ruffle it to look like feathers with the prongs of a fork, and keep it in a warm temperature till dry. Mix with lqt. of jelly, 4 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and four ripe peaches Cakes—continued. cut in quarters; pour it into the dish, filling it to tho inner rim, and stand in a cool place till set. When ready to serve, pour 3 wineglassfuls each of brandy and maraschino into the body of the swan, and fill it up with vanilla cream ice, in which has been previously mixed 2oz. of an- gelica and 2oz. of citron cut in small squares, 2oz. of currants washed, and 2oz. of Smyrna raisins. The angelica, currants, raisins, and citron should have been soaked for three hours in maraschino and brandy. Turn it over on the dish with the jelly in, fix tho neck with paste made of flour and white of egg, form the wings and tail with spun sugar, and fix them on. Whip lqt. of jolly on ice until on the point of setting; when set use it to form a foam at the breast of the duck, diminishing it at the sides by degrees, to imitate waves caused by the bird swimming. The spun sugar is made by boiling some sugar to the seventh degree (see Sugar-boiling). Oil the handle of a wooden spoon, tie two forks together, tho prongs turned outwards, dip them lightly into the sugar, take them out and shake them to and fro; the sugar running from them over the spoon forms fine threads. Continue this until you have sufficient sugar threads, then take it from the spoon and shape the wings and tail. Surprise Peacock Cake.—Prepare a sponge-cake batter of thirty eggs, put it into an old tin dish-cover, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Cake out on to a sieve and leave it until cold. Shape the Cake like tho body of a peacock, hollow out the inside, and coat it over with an icing slightly tinged with pink. Blanch 41b. of very green pistachios, shape tho neck and head out of office-paste, making them in halves, lengthwise; bake them till lightly browned, then stick them together with a little flour mixed with the whites of eggs. The bird should be fixed on a dish with some of the same flour and eggs. Coat the head and neck with the same icing, cut the blanched pistachios in flat fillets, and stick them in the neck to form feathers. Mix some red and green sugar together, and sprinkle it thickly over the body of the bird. Moisten tho interior of the bird when dry with Malaga wine and brandy, turn it over on the dish, fix the head and neck on, and form tho wings and tail with spun sugar ; fix the skin of some cherries to imitate feathers. Prepare a clear jelly, mixing with it a little water coloured with gold leaves; chop it into small pieces, and lightly cover the body of the bird with it. Imitate the eyes with sugar, using small black currants for the balls; also imitate the crown of the head with sugar. Put some croutons of the above jelly tastefully round, and serve. Surprise Pheasant Cake a la Soyer.—Put 21b. of caster sugar into a bowl, which should be stood in a pan containing hot water, and break in twenty eggs, taking care to see that they are all quite fresh; whisk them till rather thick and just warmed, then take the bowl out of the hot water and continue whisking them till quite cold ; mix in the chopped peel of a lemon and 21b. of finely-sifted flour. Lightly mask the interior of two oval-shaped moulds with butter, dredge in a small quantity of flour, and shake out the superfluous ; pour the batter into the two moulds, and bake them. When cooked, leave the Cakes till cold, then shape them like two pheasants; cut out a large piece of Cake from the interior of the birds, leaving a wall about lin. thick, then put the pieces of Cake back again to keep them in shape. Make tho legs and pinions of the wings with office-paste or confectioners’ paste ; glaze the Cakes over with chocolate icing, imitating as nearly as possible the appearance of roasted pheasants; stick some thin fillets of blanched sweet almonds about the breasts, to look like barding. When quite dry, remove the cut Cake from the interior of the birds, line the hollow with currant jelly, and fill it up with chocolate cream ice, or coffee cream ice can be used if preferred. Turn the birds carefully over on to a dish, garnish round them with flavoured sweet calf’s-foot jelly, chopped and in croutons, and serve them. Swan’s Nest Cakes.—The similarity between these Cakes and swans’ nests does not appear on the surface. Having been introduced by a great chef, they have found favour and popularity. Beat up 41b. of caster sugar with six eggs, and add a few drops of essence of lemon to flavour. When the eggs and sugar are thoroughly incorporated, beat in Jib. of sifted flour so as to form a stiff paste. Boll this out very thin, and then cut it into ribbons about |in. wide by262 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Twine the strips into knots Cakes—continued. means of a fluted pastry-wheel. (see Fig. 302), and then drop it into a stewpan of hot fat, and turn it occasionally to en- sure it browning on all sides. Drain each Cake as it is cooked; place it on a dish and strew caster sugar over it. These are best served cold. Tartary Cakes.—Eub |lb. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lard in 11 lb. of flour; save a small quantity of the flour to roll with, and add 3 breakfast- cupfuls of brown sugar and three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little cream, and mix with the dough, afterwards adding f teaspoonful of tartaric acid dissolved in a little cream. Season with ground mace or wine, make into small Cakes, and bake on buttered baking-sheets. Taylor Cakes.—Eub into 3^ breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour ilb. of butter; add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, | tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2£ breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, and flavouring to taste. Beat all together with i pint of milk and three eggs. Form into loaves, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. Mask over with icing. Tipsy Cake.—(1) Have ready a large stale sponge Cake, and pierce it through in several places with a skewer; put it on a glass dish, and soak it in equal proportions of wine and brandy. As the liquid runs on the dish, pour it over again, and con- tinue this until the Cake is well soaked. Cut some blanched sweet almonds into long shreds, and stick them into the Cake. Pour over a good custard, and serve as soon as possible after being got ready. A few ratafias or macaroons make a good garnish for the dish. (2) Take a few, say ljoz., of sweet almonds, blanch them and cut them into long thin shreds as nearly of a size as possible, and stick them in regular order into a long sponge Cake; put it into a deep dish, and then pour over it as much sherry wine and brandy mixed as it will soak up, and let it remain for quite twelve hours. Sherry wine alone or with raisin wine may do instead of the brandy. Prepare a rich custard and pour it round, but not over, the Cake ; if for the supper table no custard should be used. (3) It can also be made in the shape of a tower, by taking a sponge Cake of three or four days old and trimming off the rough parts at the bottom so that it will stand evenly, and proceed with the liqueur and almonds as before. The longer it stands the better it is, but the brandy, &c., that is in the dish must be constantly put over it until it is all absorbed. (4) Soak a sponge Cake in wine and water. Make a custard of six eggs to lqt. of milk, and pour over it. Eeserve the whites, beaten to a stiff froth, to pour over last. Garnish with jam. (5) Take a lib. sponge Cake, cut it into halves horizontally, and lay each half on separate dishes. The under half should be put on a glass dish. Pour over each 1 \ wineglassfuls of sherry, and let them soak. Put on the under half of the Cake 3 table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam. When the top half has absorbed all the sherry poured over it place it on top of the jam over the under half of the Cake, being very careful not to break it or spoil its shape. Put ^lb. of almonds in a bowl, pour over them some boiling water, let them stand in it for a few minutes, then slip them out of their skins. Cut them lengthwise into strips and stick them thickly all over the Cake. Pour round the Cake as much rich boiled custard as the dish will hold, and serve. (6) Geusian Style.—Eub 4oz. of loaf sugar over the outer rind of a lemon, put it in a bottle with 1 pint of any kind of wine, the juice of the lemon, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Shake the bottle well, then pack it in ice or stand in a cold place for two or three hours. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with layers of sponge Cake, pour the wine over them, and serve with small biscuits for garnish. (7) Fob Children.—Spread a little jam over a dozen or so of stale sponge Cakes, and then pour over them sufficient Cakes—continued. currant or raisin wine for them to absorb. Pile them on a dish, and pour round, not over, some nicely-flavoured cold custard, and garnish the dish with preserved fruits cut in pieces. Travelling Cakes.-—Beat up well the yolks of twelve eggs, and add while beating £lb. of pounded sugar and the grated rind (zest) of half a lemon. When the mixture becomes frothy, mix in 12 table-spoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and the whisked whites of ten or twelve eggs. Butter a baking-sheet, and put the mixture on it, spreading it in a thin layer. Put the mixture into a slack oven, and when done cut it with a round biscuit-cutter. Mask half with apricot marmalade, and join two together by this means. Tunbridge Cakes.—Put £lb. of dried and finely-sifted flour into a basin, and rub into it 2oz. of well-washed or fresh butter; then add 1 pinch of salt (or it may be better if put into the flour before it is sifted), 2oz. of caraway-seeds, 4oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, and sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff paste. Boll the paste out very thin, cut it into small rounds with a biscuit-cutter, prick little holes into the tops (or dock them), and bake from a-quarter-of-an-hour to half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Turin Cakes. —Put 2oz. of blanched sweet almonds, and three or four bitter ones, into a mortar, add the white of one egg, and pound together; beat up the yolks of five eggs, add them to the almonds, and gradually work in lib. of caster sugar. Beat up well and add 2oz. of sifted flour, loz. of potato-flour, and the whites of five well-whisked eggs. Butter some tartlet-pans, and sprinkle over some sugar ; then pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Turkish. Cakes.—(1) Large.—Whip the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, then mix in by degrees a little more than -)lb. of wheat-starch; mix well, then stir in gradually sufficient water to make a thin batter. Procure a slightly hollowed circular sheet of iron, place it over a dullish fire, and when warmed pour in some of the batter, making it spread out thinly. Directly the Cake is cooked (it will not take above a minute) take it out of the pan and pour in some more batter, the same quantity as the last lot; proceed like this until all is cooked. Put one of the rounds of Cake in a deep dish, flavour a break- fast-cupful of milk with rose-water, and sprinkle some of it over the Cake; place another Cake on the top, and proceed thus until half are used. Then spread a thick layer of clotted cream over them, and lay the remainder of the Cakes over, proceeding as before. Pour about 1 pint of boiling syrup over the Cakes, cover them, and put in a cool place. When cold, cut the Cakes into squares or any shape desired, and serve. Pounded almonds can be used in place of clotted cream if preferred. (2) Boil lib. of loaf sugar in lqt of water until reduced to a syrup. Beat the whites of fifteen eggs, and mix gradually in with them sufficient water and flour to make a thin batter; pour a layer of it in a slightly-domed circular sheet of iron that has been placed over a slow fire, and cook it for one or two minutes; then take it out, put in more batter, and so on until all are used. Pour the boiling syrup into a rather deep baking-tin, put this over a slow fire, then put in the Cakes, one at a time, and mash them into the syrup with the back of a wooden spoon. ■When the syrup is thick, sprinkle a few drops of rose-water over it, and leave it until cold. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, decorate the top with blanched and shredded almonds and pistachios, and serve. (3) Small.—Beat the whites of fifteen eggs, and mix with them fib. of powdered wheat-starch; then pour in sufficient water to make a thin batter, and continue stirring until smooth. Procure a circular, slightly-domed, sheet of iron, place it on a moderate fire, and when warm pour in a thin layer of the batter. In a minute or so the batter will be cooked; then take it out and replace it with more, continuing thus until all the batter has been cooked. Blanch and peel 3oz. or 4oz. of almonds, or pistachios, and pound them in a mortar. Sprinkle a small quantity of rose-water over the Cakes, double them in halves, then sift the pounded almonds over them, and fold again, giving them a wedge, quarter, or triangular shape. Beat two or three eggs, put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire. Dip the Cakes in the beaten egg, then put them in the hot butter and fry until lightly browned. Put them in a basin, pour over about 1| pints of boiling syrup,263 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. and leave until well soaked. When ready, arrange the Cakes in a group on a dish, and serve. Turk’s Cake.—Put four eggs and 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin, beat them together over a saucepan of boiling water for about ten minutes ; remove the basin from the saucepan and beat five minutes longer. Sift in 4oz. of flour and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, stir gently to mix, pour it into a plain mould buttered and dusted with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out when done, and let it get quite cold. In the meantime beat 2oz. of butter with 4oz. of sugar to a white cream, add gradually 1 table- spoonful of cold clear strong coffee, beating in a few drops at a time, and working well until the whole forms a firm smooth paste. Put this into a forcing-bag with a tube fitted to it, decorate the Cake in an artistic Turkish pattern, let the icing set, and serve. Velvet Breakfast Cakes.—Simmer 1 pint of new milk, but do not let it boil; add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat three eggs and add with a little salt and 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Mix in enough flour to make a dough. Knead it and put it to rise in a warm place for two hours with a cover on the basin; shape into little Cakes, put them on buttered baking-sheets, and bake for a quarter-of-an-hour in a quick oven. Velvet Cake.—Beat fib. of warmed butter and lib. of caster sugar with the hand until it becomes like cream. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 teacupful of cold water, and mix in with the butter and sugar. Put 2 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar in lib. of flour, and sift gradually in with the other ingredients ; add five eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, flavour to taste, beat all well together, put in a greased tin, and bake for half-an-hour. Venice Cake.—(1) Beat up the yolks of twenty-eight eggs and 6oz. of sugar until quite light, then beat up the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and mix in, adding 3oz. of blanched, shredded, sweet almonds, 6oz. of flour, and a little lemon- peel, and mix well together. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake until done in a moderate oven. (2) Take a large savoy Cake and cut it into slices trans- versely, of about fin. in thickness ; mask each slice with raspberry or apricot jam, or each jam alternately. Put the layers in their original places and ice the whole over. The icing should be allowed to run into the flutes and mouldings of the Cake. Place it just within the door of the oven to dry, but not to get discoloured. When dry enough decorate with piping. (3) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, put the yolks in a basin with 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, beat them well, and mix in gradually 6 table-spoonfuls of flour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them in lightly and quickly with the above mixture. Line some small square boxes or tins with sheets of white paper, pour some of the above mixture into each, about two-thirds filling them. Dust over with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. When baked, leave the Cakes until cold, then cut a small round piece out of the centre of each, fill the hollow with peaches or apricots that have been stewed in syrup, put two together, and arrange on a dish. Victoria Cake.—(1) Warm lflb. of butter in a basin and beat it to a cream, then add 6oz. of blanched almonds and two or three bitter ones well pounded in a mortar, fib. of dried cherries cut in halves, fib. of well-minced mixed candied peel, lflb. of flour, 1 pinch of salt, and four well-whipped eggs. Beat all together quickly for a few minutes and then add slowly, beating all the time, fib. of flour, eight well-beaten eggs, and a large wineglassful of brandy. Put lfoz. of fresh yeast into 1 table-spoonful of warm water and let it dissolve. Make a hole in the centre of the batter and pour in the yeast. Knead this thoroughly, and then add f pint of cream whipped to a froth. Butter a baking-tin and half fill it with the mixture; put a cloth over it and place before the fire to rise. When it has risen to double its original bulk, bake it at once in a moderate oven until it is of a light brown, or so that a skewer if passed into it comes out again clean. This Cake may also be served as a pudding, with custard sauce poured over it. (*,) Take two lemons and rub the rinds off with pieces of Cakes—continued. sugar until the coloured part is all transferred to the sugar ; pound up the lumps and add more sugar to make up fib. Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth and add the sugar, stirring together; then add the yolks of six well-beaten eggs. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, mix in slowly 7oz. of flour. Pour the batter into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake until it is done a light brown. Vienna Cakes.—(1) Lakge.—For this you must use four or five large plates, and stretch paper over them. Make an edge round them with more paper, and sew them to the rounds. Butter them well, and put them on a baking-tin. Prepare a mixture made by working together fib. of butter beaten to a cream, the yolks of twelve well-beaten eggs, and the grated peel of half a lemon; then add gradually fib. of pounded sugar, fib. of flour, and the same of potato-flour. Mix all well together, and then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped until like snow. This must be spread over the plates not thicker than fin. Bake until of a nice yellow colour, but not to let them even slightly brown. When done, turn out and let them get cold, and then take off the paper without breaking the Cakes. Put one on top of the other with a layer of different coloured preserves and marmalades between them. Then take a little powdered sugar, dissolve it in lemon-juice, and spread it thickly over the top and sides. Put it in the oven to dry, and then ornament the top with preserved fruit or marmalade. (2) Take 7oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, blanch them, and put them in a mortar with a few drops of orange- flower water and pound thoroughly. The orange-flower water will prevent them oiling. Then mix in lib. of flour and break into this fib. of butter. Kub a few lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon and break them to a powder, adding fib. more. Then beat in the yolks of three well- whisked eggs, and when the paste is made put it on a board and roll out to about fin. in thickness; put it on a baking- sheet and bake in a moderate oven until it is browned equally all over. Then take it out and cut into six or seven equal portions, spreading jam of different colours upon all but one; put them one on top of the other, and the one not spread with jam on the top of all. Cover the top with icing and ornament with coloured-sugar piping. Another way of cutting them is so that the bottom is the largest and the layers become smaller in gradation towards the top, leaving a border of about lin. on each piece, which can be masked with different coloured jams or preserved fruits. (3) Slightly warm fib. of butter, and beat it in a basin until creamy, then beat in the yolks of twelve eggs one at the time. Sift in gradually 4oz. of the finest wheaten-flour and the same quantity of potato-flour, fib. of caster sugar, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Beat the mixture thoroughly for ten minutes or so, then whip the whites of the twelve eggs to a firm froth and add them gently. Butter a few shallow paper cases, place them on a baking-dish, and spread a thin layer of the mixture in each case. Bake the Cakes in a moderate oven, they must not be too much coloured. When the Cakes are cooked, leave them until cold, then take off the paper. Put a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a round dish, and pile the Cakes on it, with a layer of different coloured preserves between them. Squeeze lemon-juice on a moderate quantity of caster sugar, work it until dissolved, then spread it thickly over the top and round the sides of the Cake. Put the Cake in a warm place till the glazing is dry, then ornament the top with candied or preserved fruit, and serve it. (4) Slightly warm fib. of butter and beat it until creamy with fib. of caster sugar; blanch and pound 2oz. of sweet almonds, then mix them with the beaten butter, also the grated rind of one lemon, fib. of sifted flour, and the yolks of ten eggs. Work the above mixture thoroughly for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly at the last. Butter the interior of four or five shallow paper moulds, place them on baking- sheets, pour a thin layer of the mixture into each, and bake in a moderate oven. Peel lib. of apples, core, and cut them into slices; put them into a stewpan with lfoz. of butter, 4oz. of caster sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Put the pan over a slow fire, and stir them occasionally with a wooden spoon until reduced to a pulp. Beat the yolks of three eggs with the juice of a lemon, pour them in with the264 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cakes—continued. apples when cooked, stir the whole over the fire for a few seconds, then take it off before it boils. Turn the apple mixture into a basin, stir in a wineglassful of rum, and leave it until cold. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a round dish, and when the Cakes are cooked and cold, pile them on it, with a layer of the apple preserve on each of them, but do not put any on the top of the last Cake. Trim the Cake neatly round the edges, cover it thickly with caster sugar, and serve. (5) Small.—Take any kind of plain Cake, and cut it into small squares; with a smaller cutter cut half-way through, and take the piece out from the middle of each square and fill the cavity with any marmalade, a variety is best; put the piece that was removed back on the marmalade, and cover with icing. (6) Put Jib. of flour into a basin with Mb. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and half a grated nutmeg; then stir in gradually sufficient well-beaten eggs to form the whole into a paste. Work it well, then lay the paste out on a floured table, and roll it as thin as possible. Thickly butter a baking-sheet and lay the paste on it. Blanch and finely chop about 3oz. of sweet almonds, and strew them over the paste with some caster sugar mixed with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Bake the Cakes in a slow oven, not letting them get too brown. When cooked, cut the Cakes in strips, roll them quickly round the handle of a wooden spoon, and slip them off on to a glass dish. Washington Cake.—Heat lqt. of milk and dissolve loz. of butter in it; when lukewarm, work this into 21b. of flour, 1 gill of yeast, three eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; make a good dough, put it in a greased tin overnight, and bake in the morning in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Water Cakes.—Bub Mb. of butter into lib. of flour; then add |lb. of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of caraway-seeds, and sufficient milk to make it into a paste. Boll it out very thin, prick (dock) it well over, cut into Cakes, and put them on well-buttered iron plates. Bake in a slack oven until they become very light. The Germans make these without the caraway-seeds. Water-Melon Cake (Imitation).—This Cake is made from the receipts given for gold and silver Cakes, with the exception of red sugar being used instead of white in the gold Cake, and Jib. of raisins, stoned, quartered, and rolled in flour, being added. Put the red Cake in the centre of a round pan and the white or silver round the edge; or the red can be put at the bottom, and the white at the top. This can be baked in a large round tin, and is supposed to resemble a water- melon. White Cake.—(1) Bub 6oz. of butter into Jib. of flour and add lib. of powdered white sugar, a little ground mace and chopped citron-peel, and the whites of fourteen well-beaten eggs. Make into a dough and bake in a buttered tin. This Cake should be iced over. (2) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar with fib. of sifted flour, and sift them three or four times. Then mix 5oz. of corn- flour in a basin with J pint of milk. Take the whites of twelve eggs, and put them in a whipping-bowl ready for use, and dissolve a small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 2 table-spoonfuls of milk in a cup. Next put 18oz. of oaster sugar with Jib. of butter into a mixing-pan, warm them a little, and work to a cream, then adding the dissolved soda. When well mixed, stir in the cornflour and milk. Whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and mix them in with the flour alternately, that is, first a little flour and then a little of the eggs. Add a little vanilla extract to flavour, and bake, either in a mould or laid out on a baking-sheet. When cold ice over. White Mountain Cake.—(1) Mix with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Bub in with the flour 1 breakfast-cupful of butter which has been creamed by warming and beating with the hand and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. Beat ten whites of eggs with J pint of sweet milk, mix with the other ingredients, and bake in small flat Cake-tins. Lay them one upon the other, and ice when cold. Sift grated cocoa-nut over each. (2) Beat with the hand Jib. of butter warmed to melting and lib. of caster sugar into a thick cream; then add the Cakes—continued. whites of ten eggs, whipped very stiff, Jib. of flour, sifted in slowly; flavour with 1 teaspoonful of ground bitter almonds. When well mixed, bake. (3) Warm Jib. of butter with lib. of caster sugar, and cream by beating with the hand; add the whites of sixteen well- beaten eggs, stir in gradually lib. of sifted flour, and when quite smooth add 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put this mixture into a Cake-tin and bake. When cold cut into thin slices. Beat the whites of four or five eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with as much sugar as for icing ; stir in two grated cocoa- nuts, and spread it between the layers of Cake. Ice it over. Wreath Cakes.—Put ljlb. of sifted flour in a bowl and warm it. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of dried yeast in 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk, and stir it into the centre of the flour, mixing in only sufficient to make a light batter. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and leave it in a warm temperature until the contents have well risen. Warm Jib. of butter with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then beat in three eggs ; add a small quantity of salt, stir it in with the flour, and work the whole into a smooth soft dough. Divide the dough into six equal-sized portions, flour a paste-board, and roll the dough out into long strips about Jin. in thickness. Twist the strips, plait the twists together in twos, and lay them in rings on a buttered baking-tin. Moisten the end of the rings with water, and stick them together. Keep them in a warm temperature until risen, then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg; strew coarsely-powdered loaf sugar and a few chopped almonds over them, and bake in a moderate oven. The Cakes should not be too much browned, and care should be taken that the almonds do not burn. Yorkshire Cakes.—(1) Bub 3oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, and then add four well-whipped eggs and 1 table-spoonful of sugar. Work all well together, and add J pint of warmed milk with loz. of German yeast dissolved in it ; put in 1 pinch of salt, and work vigorously for five minutes. Make it smooth in the pan, put a cloth over it, and let it ferment for half-an-hour before the fire. Turn it out on to a slab, knead well, and cut it into twelve equal parts. Boll them in the hands into balls, and then put them on baking-sheets and flatten; place again near the fire to prove, and when sufficiently risen brush them over with beaten egg and bake in a quick oven. These Cakes are usually cut into two or three slices, toasted and buttered, and served hot. (2) Bub Jib. of butter into 71b. of flour, and moisten with lqt. of lukewarm milk and J pint of fresh yeast mixed with 1 pint of warm water. Let it stand to prove for about twenty minutes, then make it into Cakes and put them on warmed baking-sheets ; push a finger through the centre before putting them on the baking-sheets. Bake in a hot oven until done a light brown, and then brush over with a little warmed butter. Yorkshire Spice Cake.—Take 81b. of flour, put it in a basin and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of salt, and then rub in 1 Jib. of butter and 21b. of lard. Make a bay in the centre, but not to the bottom, and pour in J pint of fresh yeast diluted in J pint of water. Stir in the flour until it becomes like batter. Sprinkle a little more flour on the top and put in a warm place to rise. When the bubbles rise through the flour knead it thoroughly, and let it rise again until quite light. When it has thoroughly risen work in Gib. of currants, washed and dried, 31b. of raw sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and eight well-whisked eggs. Make it into loaves of various sizes and put them into tins, the tins being only half filled. Bake until done in a quick oven. Yule Cakes. — Dissolve Joz. of German yeast in 1 break- fast-cupful of warm water, and stir into this lib. of sifted flour and 1 saltspoorjful of salt. Cover with a cloth, and put it before the fire to rise into a sponge. Then add Jib. of butter beaten to a cream, Jib. of moist sugar, 2Joz. of grated nutmeg, Jib. of washed and dried currants, Jib. of mixed candied peel, finely chopped, and two eggs. Mix all well together and put into buttered tins, but only half fill them. Bake for an-hour-and-three-quarters or two hours in a moderate oven, and turn out to get cold. For receipts of other Cakes not described above see Biscuits and Special Headings.ARTISTIC EMBLEMATIC GROSSES PIECES. Military.—This is an arrangement of Drums, made of cakes piped and iced with white sugar, surmounted by a helmet and wreath made in sugar, and surrounded by shells and shot made of coloured sweet jellies. The wreath is made up of angelica and candied cherries. The stand is moulded in paste, and is a trophy of war. Natal.—This piece represents an Ironclad made of cake iced oyer with chocolate. The guns and figures are moulded in sugar; the ship’s boats, with sails, are constructed of either paste or chocolate: and the sea is made with sugar or paste tinted a light green beneath the foam.265 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. CALAIiQTJ.—This is the name of a favourite dish amongst the Creoles in the Antilles, to which it is said newcomers soon accustom themselves. It is eaten all over the East, as well as in India, and is supposed to have been introduced into Marseilles by the Greek families who established themselves there, and thence it has spread all over the South of Prance. The gumbo or gombo, which has of late years been introduced into Prance, forms one of the indispensable elements of its preparation. Calalou a l’Orientale.—Chop off both ends from a couple of dozen gumbos or gombos, put them in a basin, sprinkle freely with salt, and let them macerate for fifteen minutes or so. Take them out, well wash them in warm water, put into a saucepan of salted water and boil, taking care to preserve their green colour. Take them out when done, and drain. Have ready 2 or 3 handfuls of French beans, likewise boiled in salted water. Cut two egg-plant fruits or mad- apples into oblong squares, and let them macerate to extract the water. Cut five or six large tomatoes in pieces, and take out all the seeds or pips. Cut off the stems of a few green sweet peppers, core them, slice the flesh lengthwise, and fry them for five minutes. Put two sliced onions into a frying- pan with a little oil, and fry them gently without allowing them to take colour ; add the peppers, toss the pan until they are partly cooked, then add the egg-plant fruits or mad- apple3. Cook for a few minutes longer, add the tomatoes, and cook until all the moisture has evaporated. Now add the French beans, sprinkle over a little salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley, with a small clove of garlic, cook for a minute or two, put in the gumbos, which should have been warmed in a frying-pan with a little oil, cook for two minutes longer, turn the whole out on a dish, and serve. If the gumbos are large they should be cut in thick slices before being warmed in the oil. CALF.—This Anglo-Saxon word, correctly spelled Cealf, suggests a history cleverly explained by Sir Walter Scott in his novel of “ Ivanhoe,” where Wamba, the jester, expounds to Gurtb, the Saxon swineherd, the change that the animal undergoes when it leaves its Saxon guardian to be slaughtered for the table of the Norman master— Saxon Calf becomes Norman Veal. This distinction has become a custom of the country, and will therefore be respected in the instructions given for preparing the many splendid dishes to which the delicate white meat Veal can be subjected; but, when dealing with those dishes which are prepared from the “offal,” or those parts which would formerly probably fall to the lot of the slave, we retain the Saxon Calf. It must not be supposed, however, that the term is now applied in any sense of disparagement; quite the reverse, for since modern cooks have, by the exercise of culinary tact and seasoning skill, directed their attention to those parts, such as the head, brains, liver, sweetbread, and feet, some dishes are now so prepared that no longer fall to the lot of the lowly, but rank high amongst the luxuries of the gourmet’s table. So much for the modern cooks’ art, which has raised refuse or “offal” into dainties, as displayed in the clever receipts given under this heading. Calf’s Brains.—As a matter of fact, very little difference exists in brain-tissue, from whatever animal it may be extracted; nevertheless there is a decided leaning in culinary quarters towards the brains of the Calf, as more marrow-like and mellow. Ancient writers were of opinion that an individual’s disposition was affected by the nature of his food, hence it was not considered a good policy to eat Calf’s, sheep’s, or pig’s brains; but even that prejudice appears to have died a natural death in the general advancement of science and understanding, and the greatest philosophers no longer disdain such dishes as those described hereunder. Calf’s Brains are prepared for cooking as follows: After they have been removed from the skull they should be soaked and well washed, to cleanse away any Calf—continued. blood that might be diffused through them, and then dipped into scalding water with a little vinegar and salt in it, and just boiled up for a few minutes so as to slightly harden them. Then the membranes can be stripped off easily, and the brains drained and dried, when they are ready to be treated in various ways, and are capable of almost any amount of artistic manipulation. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Black or Brown Butter.— Take three Calf’s Brains that have been cleaned, blanched, and prepared, put them in a stowpan, and cover over with water. Add 2 pinches of salt, ^ breakfast-cupful of vinegar, one medium-sized sliced carrot, one sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and twelve whole peppers. Boil for five minutes, drain well, and cut each brain into halves. Arrange on a dish, and serve with 1 gill of very hot black or brown butter. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Fried Parsley and Black or Brown-Butter Sauce.— Take three Calf’s Brains, put them in a saucepan over slices of fat bacon, a bouquet garni, a little butter, and sufficient broth to cover. Cook over a slow fire for thirty minutes, by which time they should be sufficiently done; put them on a hot dish with a little fried parsley in the centre, and black or brown-butter sauce poured round. Boiled Calf’s Brains a la Poulette.—Put a large piece of butter in a saucepan, melt it, and gradually add 1 teacupful of flour; mix well together, and add 1 gill of clear broth, taking care to stir well all the time; then add gill of white wine or Madeira and water in equal parts. Next add a few small onions and mushrooms, and boil until they are done, adding a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste; when these are soft put in the brains, and boil again for twelve or fifteen minutes. Take out the brains and put them on a dish. Add the yolk of an egg to the sauce, with the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the brains. This dish must be served very hot. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Ravigote Sauce.—In Igall. of hot water put a small handful of salt, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, a bunch of parsley, a finely-chopped onion, a piece of celery, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a few peppercorns and cloves; boil for five minutes, then put in the brains and boil again for twelve or fifteen minutes. Drain the brains, butter with a paste-brush, and serve them with hot ravigote sauce. The brains can also be dished with a garnish of sorrel, the roots being placed towards the centre of the dish, or with brown butter. Boiled Calf’s Brains with Vinaigrette Sauce.—This is prepared the same as for Boiled Calf’s Brains with Black ob Brown Butter. Serve on a folded napkin on a dish, garnishing with a few green parsley-leaves, and 1 gill of vinaigrette sauce in a sauceboat. Brochettes of Calf’s Brains.—(1) Take two or three Calf’s grains and boil them for a few minutes; when cold divide them into halves, and cut each half into squares |-in. in thickness. Place these in a basin; add salt and mixed spices to taste, with a little finely-chopped parsley and mixed herbs sprinkled lightly over them. Cut some pieces of fat bacon the same size as the pieces of brain and arrange them alternately upon skewers, then dip them into melted butter and rasp some breadcrumbs over them. Broil them over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes, and turn them so that they may be cooked all round. When done, dish them up in heaps like pyramids. (2) Cut some boiled Calf’s Brains, boiled udder, and truffles into pieces similar in shape and equal in size. Fix the pieces of brains, udder, and truffles alternately on ■' some small skewers. Prepare a small quantity of veloute sauce and mix with it a lump of butter about loz. in weight, the strained juice of a lemon, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Dip the skewers into the sauce and leave them till cold; then dip them in some warmed butter, and cover with breadcrumbs. Repeat the operation of dipping the skewers in butter and breadcrumbs, then lay them on a grid- iron, and broil over a clear fire till nicely browned, turning them so that they may colour equally. When cooked, put the brochettes on a hot dish, pour some highly-seasoned sauce over, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 266 For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jrc., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. Calf’s Brains en Matelote.—(1) Peel twenty small onions, and put them into a saucepan with -|oz. of butter, and fry to a light brown colour; add 5OZ. of flour, stirring well for a few minutes; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of good broth, 1 teacupful of red wine, and a little salt and pepper. Place the pan on the side of the fire and let the liquor simmer for thirty minutes. Take 1 pottle of mushrooms, pick them over, wash them, and cut into rather small pieces; put them into the sauce and boil for eight minutes longer. Take the boiled brains, drain them, place on a warmed dish surrounded with the onions and mushrooms, and serve with the sauce poured over all. (2) Put three prepared Calf’s Brains into boiling water for a few minutes, take them out, wipe them dry, and cut each into halves. Cut fib. of streaky bacon into small squares, and add two onions and one carrot finely-chopped, a few cloves, two pimentos, a few sweet herbs, and a handful of mushroom trimmings ; place these in a stewpan with 2 wine- glassfuls of red wine, and put on the lid. Reduce the liquid to one-fourth of its original quantity and add the brains. Boil for eight or ten minutes, and then strain the liquid into another stewpan. Skim, and thicken with a little brown sauce with ten or twelve mushrooms added. Boil for a few minutes, and then mix in the brains and bacon, twenty small onions, and two dozen blanched olives. Let all simmer for a few minutes. Serve the brains on bread croutons, and garnish with the bacon and vegetables. (3) Prepare and blanch three Calf’s Brains ; place some slices of bacon round a stewpan, put in the brains, with a little salt, pepper, a small piece of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of white broth. Place the pan at the side of the fire for half-an-hour, or until the dish is wanted to be served. Fry some pieces of bread to a light brown colour, cut in the shape of cocks’ combs, and put them in the dish with the brains between. Cover over with matelote sauce, and serve. Calf’s-Brain Sauce for Salad.—Cut some boiled brains into small pieces; put them in a mortar with a few tarragon- leaves and i- wineglassful of onion vinegar, and pound them. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and a few grains of cayenne, and then mix in gradually, till quite smooth, about 5 pint of thick creamy salad-dressing. The sauce is then ready for serving. Calf’s Brains in Scallop Shells.—Boil two brains, cut them into dice, season well, and put into a basin. Gradually reduce 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce in a sauce- pan, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze; when it is cooked to a nice cream, add 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked sweet herbs; cook it for two or three minutes, then add the brains and take the pan off the fire. Have ready eight or nine scallop shells, thoroughly cleaned, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan cheese, and glaze them. Serve hot. Cromeskies of Calf’s Brains. — Reduce i pint of brown sauce in a saucepan for two or three minutes, and then gradually add 1 wineglassful of Madeira and 1 gill of melted glaze; when it becomes thick, remove it from the fire. Cut two cooked Calf’s Brains into small dice, put them into a basin, and add a little grated nutmeg, cooked mushrooms equal to half the quantity of the brains, and the same pro- portion of cooked tongue; cut these also into small squares and mix with the glaze. Allow the mixture to get cold; then divide it into pieces, and roll it like a cork, a little flat at the ends. Wrap them one at a time in strips of wafer placed between two wet cloths. Take each one separately and put it into a batter, and then into hot lard until the paste is nicely coloured. Drain them of fat, and then serve on a cloth, with a little dried powdered parsley sprinkled over. Croquettes of Calf’s Brains.—Boil |-lb. of brains gently for twenty minutes, and then put them for a few minutes in cold water; peel off the outside, chop up the brains, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs. Mash all together, then add 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley, loz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, a little lemon-juice, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix all well together, and, after flouring the hands, make it up into shapes like sausages; coat these with flour, and fry in a wire basket, in lard or butter, until they are of a light yellow colour. Serve with cream sauce. Calf—continued. Tried Calf’s Brains with Tartar Sauce.—Proceed as for Boiled Calf’s Brains with Black or Brown Butter, then dry the brains well in a napkin; bread them, and fry in hot grease for five minutes. Serve with i pint of Tartar sauce separately. Calf’s Chitterlings.—These are in less euphonious language, but as a matter of fact, the Calf’s entrails, known to superior cooks as the Chaudron of the Calf; but it may be taken as an inference that, however savoury these “ morsels ” may be, they are not served up to table under their proper names. Before cooking them in the styles mentioned hereunder, they should be ripped open and thoroughly cleansed. Chaudron Fritters.—(1) Put a Calf’s Chitterlings in a sauce- pan, with sufficient water to cover them, and boil until par- tially cooked. Drain the Chitterlings, leave them until cold, then cut into small pieces. Mix together a seasoning of grated nutmeg, pounded cloves, mace, salt, finely-minced onion, parsley, and tarragon. Put 1 pint of mutton-broth in a saucepan, squeeze in the juice of one orange and one lemon, and season it with a small quantity of grated nut- meg ; place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Roll the Chitterlings in the mixed seasonings, giving them a good coating; put them in a frying-pan in which a lump of butter has been melted, and fry over a brisk fire, turn- ing them. When cooked, put the Chitterlings on a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve. (2) Steep the Chitterlings in salted water for twelve hours; refresh in clear cold water, and partially boil them. Put 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin, and mix it to a smooth batter with white wine; season with salt and pepper. Cut the Chitterlings into small pieces, dip them in the batter, put them into a frying-pan with some hot lard or beef-dripping, and fry them until nicely browned. When browned drain the Chitterlings on a piece of paper in front of the fire, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Boasted Chaudron.—Steep the Chitterlings in salted water for a night. Cut them into small pieces and partially boil them; when ready, drain, and finish cooking in front of a clear fire, basting them well with butter and dredging with flour to brown them nicely. When cooked, arrange the Chitterlings on a hot dish, pour butter sauce and the juice of a lemon over them, and serve. Calf’s Ears.—The probability of making any very tasty dish out of the cartilaginous substance of an animal’s ear appears to be very remote, and yet we Fig. 303. Calf’s Ear Cleaned for Cooking. have cooks around us who pride themselves upon their success in this particular. The ears should be cut off with a wide base (see Fig. 303), scalded, scraped, and blanched. Boiled Calf’s Ears.—Scald the hair from the ears, and clean them thoroughly; boil them in veal gravy until they are tender, and blanch in cold spring water. Serve the ears267 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,ic., referred to, see under their special heads- Calf—continued. with chervil sauce, or in the gravy in which they were cooked, thickened and seasoned. A sauce may be made of melted butter, with chervil washed and strained with the butter through a sieve, and a little white sauce added. White sauce is sometimes sent up alone with the ears; in that case it should be flavoured with mushroom powder. Calf’s liars a la Financiere.—Cut off four ears, blanch, and put into a saucepan with a little stock or water, and boil until quite tender. In the meantime, cut a crouton of bread, 2in. square at the base and 3in. high, fry in lard, and put in the centre of a dish. Take out the ears, dry them on a cloth, and stand them on the dish leaning against the bread ; put a heap of financiere ragout in the spaces between the ears, with a truffle and cock’s comb in the ragout. Put four cocks’ combs on the top of the bread and a large truffle on the top of them, and serve with some financiere sauce separate in a boat. Calf’s Ears, Bordeaux Style.—Cut off four ears, plunge them first into boiling water and then into cold, to blanch them. Wipe dry, and put them into a saucepan with a little stock or water and boil them; when done, let them remain in their stock until nearly cold, take them out, and wipe dry on a cloth. Take four or five good mushrooms, skin them, and chop them up ; put them into a stewpan with a little oil or butter, and set them on the fire to fry. When they are done and their moisture is evaporated, add a little seasoning; take them off the fire and put in 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, a handful of raw finely-chopped ham, a little parsley, and 2 table-spoonfuls of shallots; add a few sweet herbs to season, and bind the mass together with an egg. Take the ears, score them round the edge, and stuff with the mixture. Put them into a flat saucepan, in an upright position, with a couple of dozen small heads of mushrooms. Pour in sufficient thick gravy, with a little tomato sauce and cayenne added, to about half the height of the ears. Put the pan over the fire, and let it boil; take it off, and place it at the entrance of an oven to simmer for twenty minutes. Baste frequently, and when quite done put them on a dish, garnish with the mushrooms, and pour the sauce over all. Calf’s Ears in Marinade. — Take two ears and put them into a little warm water to extract the blood; then boil them in some good stock until quite tender. Cut each one lengthwise into five or six pieces, and put them into a bowl with a little parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, two onions, a little pepper, eight or nine cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little salt, and let them soak for six or seven hours. Take each piece out separately, and wipe dry with a cloth. In the meanwhile, prepare some frying batter, and dip each piece into it, seeing that every part is covered ; then plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry for five minutes. Take them out and put on a dish with a little tomato sauce under them, and surround with parsley dipped in boiling fat. Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce. — Prepare and blanch twelve ears; put them into a saucepan with slices of fat pork or bacon and veal under them, add a seasoning of thyme, parsley, spice, bay-leaf, and carrots (in slices), pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and about 1 pint of rich white broth. Cook the ears over a moderate fire until quite tender; take them out, and drain thoroughly. With a sharp knife slit part of the gristle all round, and cut the thickest side very flat. Arrange them on a dish, over a little tomato sauce, standing them upright; turn the thinnest part of the ears over,, bind them down, and slit them several times at equal distances. Should the ears be at all coloured in cooking, they should be stuffed and fried, as the white effect would be spoiled. Calf’s Ears with Tortue Sauce. — Take four ears, cut, blanch, and put them into some wrarm water to extract the blood, &c.; then put them into a saucepan with a little stock and boil until quite tender. Place a crouton of fried bread- crumb, 3in. high and 2in. square at the base, in the middle of a dish, and put one ear on each side. Prepare a ragout of truffles, mushrooms, quenelles, and gherkins, the gherkins having been previously steeped in cold water and made into a ball shape with a vegetable-cutter, and the whole mixed Calf—continued. with some tortue sauce. Put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in each ear, and put the ragout in small heaps in the space left between the ears; on each of the heaps place a crayfish with the claws downwards, and a larded sweetbread on the Fig. 301 Calf’s Ears with Tohtue Sauce. top of the crouton of fried bread (see Fig. 304). Serve with a little of the sauce in a boat. Calf’s Ears with Truffles (a la Perigord).—Prepare these the same as for Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce. Have ready a pain of veal forcemeat, baked in a hoop with the top slightly domed. Fasten an ornamental raised pie-paper round the pain, and set the ears round, one at the top, and into each ear put a small truffle. Dress over the forcemeat with sprigs of fried parsley and small attelettes garnished with truffles (see Fig. 305). Calf’s Ears with Villeroy Sauce.—Take four ears, blanch them, and cook in some good stock; when nearly done, take them out, drain, wipe dry, and when cold cut each one into three pieces, lengthwise. Season with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs, previously cooked. Take the pieces up separately and dip them into a little hot villeroy sauce, and put them on a plate or dish a little apart, and when the sauce is cold and has set, lift the pieces of ears up with a knife and dip them first into breadcrumbs, then into beaten egg, and then into breadcrumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, a few at a time, and fry. When done, take them out, put on a strainer to drain, and place them on a dish with a napkin spread over it. Serve with a little parsley, previously fried, put round for garnish. Fried Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce.—Boil four ears, let them cool in the liquor, drain, wipe, and cut up into quar- ters. Put them into a basin, and dust over with chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; flour them separately, dip into well- beaten egg, and then into sifted breadcrumbs. Plunge them into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling lard, putting in a few at a time, and fry for about ten minutes; take them out and drain, pile on a dish, pour round tomato sauce, and serve. Stuffed Calf’s Ears.-—(1) Put twelve ears into a bowl of lukewarm water, and let them disgorge. Blanch them,268 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. cut all the hairs away, and stew in a saucepan with slices of veal and bacon, seasoned with parsley, carrots, bay-leaves, spice, and thyme, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 1 ladleful of broth. Take out the ears when done so that a knife can easily be run into them. Drain, and let them cool. Stuff them with fowl or other forcemeat, giving them a horn shape; dip singly into egg, cover with bread- crumbs, giving two coatings if necessary, plunge into boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Arrange them on a dish, pour round tomato or other sauce, and serve. (2) Soak four ears in warm water to draw out the blood, put them in some good white stock that a Calf’s head has been cooked in, and boil over a good fire for an hour or so until quite tender. Let them remain in this until they are cold. Prepare ^lb. of good forcemeat, and add a few finely- chopped mushrooms to it, and the yolk of an egg to bind the mass. Take the ears out of the stock, dry on a cloth, and stuff them nearly full of the forcemeat. Beat up two or three eggs in a basin; dip the ears first in this and then in some breadcrumbs. Put them into a frying-pan with some lard, and fry, but not too quickly, as the forcemeat will require some time to cook. Put a layer of mashed potatoes on a dish, place the ears on it, and serve with a sauce of fine herbs poured round. (3) Take four ears, trim them short, and score them (see Fig. 306). Put them into a little warm water to remove the blood, &c., and then boil in some good Calf’s-kead stock until quite tender. Put some good chicken forcemeat, about fin. thick, on a plate or dish, nearly fill the ears with some more of it, and put them on the plate (or dish), on the top of the other forcemeat. Put a sheet of well-buttered white paper round each one, and another piece on the top ; place in a moderate oven, and bake until the forcemeat is set. Remove the paper when the ears are done, and serve with some Italian sauce poured over them. Calf’s Feet.—Tire jelly obtainable by boiling these is the principal virtue that cooks value in Call’s or any other animal’s feet, for it is not only nourishing, but bright and beautiful when skilfully prepared. Ox-feet, or cow-heel, yield less jelly in proportion to weight, although age matures the gelatinous tissues and renders them more consolidated. The jelly from these would therefore be stronger and more glutinous; but for a light, bright, sparkling, delicate jelly, nothing can be produced to equal that from the foot of the Calf. As will be evident from the following receipts, jelly is not the only tasty viand that can be prepared from Calf’s Feet, which before using should be prepared thus: Break the foot across several times, split it up between the toes, remove the piece of fat between the toes, and all the marrow from the bones. Well wash the foot, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and bring to the boil; take out the foot, plunge into a basin of cold water, and scrape thoroughly. Boiled Calf’s Feet. — Split each of three feet into halves, and after removing the large bones put them to soak in fresh water for one hour. Wash thoroughly, drain, and place them in a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 3qts. of cold water. Stir well; add 1 gill of vinegar, one onion, one carrot (all cut in shreds), twelve whole peppers, a handful Calf—continued. of salt, and a bouquet garni, and cook briskly for an-hour- and-a-half. Drain well, and serve with any kind of sauce. Boiled Calf’s Feet with Piquant Sauce.—The same as for Boiled Calf’s Feet, using ^ pint of hot piquant sauce to pour over. Boiled Calf’s Feet with Foulette Sauce.—Same as Boiled Calf’s Feet, adding \ pint of hot poulette sauce, made as follows: Put 1 pint of hot German sauce into a saucepan with loz. of fresh butter, add the juice of half a medium- sized lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well on the hot stove until thoroughly melted and mixed, but do not lot it boil. Keep the sauce warm, and serve poured over the Calf’s Feet on a dish. Boiled Calf’s Feet with Remoulade Sauce.—The same as for Boiled Calf’s Feet, adding J pint of hot remoulade sauce. Calf’s-Foot Jelly.— (1) Clean and wash four Calf’s Feet and put them in a saucepan with lgull. of water, and add 2oz. of isinglass and a little lemon-peel. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and stew gently until a strong jelly is formed ; carefully skim off the fat, and pour in lqt. of white wine. When this is incorporated, work in lib. of loaf sugar, the juice of eight lemons, and the whites of fifteen eggs beaten to a froth. Put the pan back again on the fire and boil for fifteen minutes longer; remove to the side, and let the jelly remain for a few minutes to settle; then strain it through a jelly-bag into moulds. When perfectly cold, turn it out, and serve. (2) Bone six feet and put them in a stockpot with lgall. of water ; when it boils, skim, move to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for ten hours, adding occasionally a little more water; strain through a hair sieve into a large basin, and let it be till the next day; skim off the fat, and put the jelly to clarify in a stewpan with Hlb. of loaf sugar, six cloves, 1 dessert-spoonful of coriander - seeds, foz. of whole cinnamon, the juice of six lemons, and i bottle of Madeira. Stand the stewpan on the fire, whip four whites and one whole egg with a little drop of water; whisk in lqt. of the jelly, then turn all into the stewpan containing the remainder of the jolly and whip till it boils. Put a flat lid on the stewpan, with some live coals on the top, and let the jelly simmer for twenty minutes. Put the rind of three lemons in a jelly-bag, strain the jelly through two or three times until perfectly clear, then turn it into moulds, and keep in a cold place, or pack in ice until it sets. This jelly can be used for many purposes. (3) Cut a set of Calf’s Feet into pieces, put them in a stone jar with lqt. of milk, 5 pints of water, a handful of hartshorn shavings, £oz. of isinglass, and a small quantity of mace. Cover the jar with brown paper, tie it down securely, and put it in the oven. When cooked, strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve, leave it until cold, then skim off the fat. Use when required. (4) Thoroughly wash four Calf’s Feet in plenty of cold water, trimming off all defective portions, and carefully removing all the hairs ; put them over the fire in a thick saucepan with 2galls. of cold water, 1 piled teaspoonful of salt, a dozen whole cloves, lin. of stick cinnamon, and the yellow rind of one lemon cut very thin. Place the saucepan where its contents will boil very slowly ; remove all scum as it rises, and continue the boiling until there are only about 2qts. of the broth remaining in the saucepan. By this time the Calf’s Feet will have become almost gelatinous from the prolonged boiling, and the broth will be in good condition to make the jelly. Strain the broth, and cool it, in order to remove the fat. After the broth from the Calf’s Feet is quite cold, it will present the appearance of a cloudy, whitish, opaque jelly; it must then be clarified and flavoured as follows: For 2qts. of the unclarified jelly, put into a thick saucepan the whites and shells of four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and the yellow rinds of two lemons cut very thin. Mix these ingredients for a moment, breaking the egg shells ; then add lib. of white sugar, the cold jellied broth, place the saucepan over the fire, and occasionally stir its contents until they begin to boil; then place it where the jelly will boil gently until it looks as clear as wine under the scum of egg which rises to the surface. Put into a large bowl lqt. of sherry and the strained juice of four lemons; set a colander over the bowl,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 269 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.% referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. wet a clean towel in hot water, fold it double, and lay it in the colander ; pour the boiling jelly into the towel, and let it strain through without stirring the egg or disturbing the folded towel in any way. Do not squeeze the towel, or try to hasten the straining, because that might allow some of the particles of egg to escape into the jelly, thus clouding it. A flannel jelly-bag may be used for the straining if one is at hand. After the jelly is strained, it can be cooled in cups, moulds, or glass jars, and kept in a cool place until wanted for use. (5) Clean four Calf’s Feet; chop them up and boil them in 4qts. of water until soft, and only Iqt. of liquor remains. Let it become perfectly cold, then take off all the fat and scrape off all the dregs that adhere to the jelly. Put the jelly in a preserving-kettle, set it on a slow fire, and when the jelly melts take it from the fire, and mix with it J pint of white wine, the juice and grated rinds of two lemons, and a little ground cinnamon or mace. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, stir them into the jelly when it is cool, bruise the shells, and mix them with the jelly, and set it on the hot ashes. Sweeten it while hot with loaf sugar. Let the whole boil slowly for fifteen minutes without stirring it, and strain through a flannel bag into a deep dish. If it is not clear the first time, let it pass through the bag until it is. The bag should not be squeezed, otherwise the jelly will not look clear. When trans- parent, turn it into glasses, and set the glasses, if the weather is hot, into cold water, and keep them in a cool place. This kind of jelly will keep but a few days in warm weather. (6) Anglo-Indian Style.—Well wash twelve feet, break them up, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and boil until quite tender. Skim off all the fat, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add lib. of sugar, the thin rinds of one orange and two lemons, and 1 table- spoonful of mixed spices such as cardamoms, cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg’. Simmer gently for about half-an-hour, add the juice of eight limes and two oranges, six blades of lemon-grass, and a handful of isinglass. Continue to simmer until the liquor thickens, then strain it. Boil it up to reduce, skim off the fat, add the whites of six eggs, beaten to a light froth, tossing the jelly from one pan to another to clarify it; pour in 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and strain the whole through a jelly-bag several times until quite clear. Turn it into glasses or moulds before it congeals, and serve when cold. Calf’s Feet as Mock Terrapin. — Boil eight feet till tender; take the meat off the bones, and put it in a stewpan with £ pint of the liquor in which they were boiled, and 2 large table-spoonfuls of butter. Mash the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs, with 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, and a small pinch of cayenne, and add salt to taste. Mix the egg in with the meat, and stir over the fire for fifteen minutes ; add 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine. Dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Calf’s-Feet Pudding1.—Clean two Calf’s Feet, put them in a saucepan of water and boil till tender. When ready, pick the meat off the bones, and chop it very finely. Mix in equal quan- tities with the chopped meat, some chopped beef-suet, grated breadcrumbs, and well-washed currants; add a peeled and chopped apple, and a small grated nutmeg. Bind all the ingre- dients together with six well-beaten eggs. When well mixed, turn the pudding into a baking-dish and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the podding out of the oven and serve it either hot or cold. Calf’s-Feet Salad.—Thoroughly wash and clean two Calf’s Feet, wrap each one in a separate piece of muslin, put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt and 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil them. When cooked, drain the feet, leave them till cool, then remove the muslin and bone them. Cut the meat into small square pieces. Wash two lettuces, pull their leaves apart, and arrange them in a salad- bowl ; put in the pieces of feet, sprinkle over some chopped beetroot and cress, arrange some slices or quarters of hard- boiled eggs tastefully about in Ihe dish, pour a mild vinai- grette sauce over all, and serve. Crepinettes of Calf’s Feet.—Separate the flesh from the bones of two cooked Calf’s Feet; cut the flesh into small pieces, and if cold put it into a basin with a quarter of their quantity of raw truffles, also cut up; season with pepper, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; cover them with Madeira, and let them steep for two or three hours. Calf—continued. "When ready, add to the above mixture an equal quantity of finely-minced raw pork that has been seasoned, and mix them well together. Divide the mixture into small equal parts, and shape them into oblong squares. Wrap up the squares in pieces of pig’s caul, taking care that there is no opening; brush them well with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear, but not too fierce, fire. When cooked, arrange the crepinettes on a hot dish, and serve. Fricassee of Calf’s Feet.—Soak four Calf’s Feet for three hours in cold water, simmer them in equal proportions of milk and water until they are sufficiently tender to remove the soft parts from the bones, dip them in the yolk of egg, cover them with fine breadcrumbs, pepper and salt them, and fry to a light brown in butter. Serve with white sauce. Savoury Calf’s-Foot Jelly.—See Aspic. Calf’s Head.—There are very few genuine epicures who can withstand the attractions of a well-cooked Calf’s Head surrounded by its garnish and trimmings. Nor is this to be wondered at seeing that few dishes can be made to offer such a variety of meats and flavours under one cover. An extensive assortment of receipts for pre- paring Calf’s-head dishes have been presented to us by our distinguished cooks, and from these some at least may be found to meet the requirements of even the most fastidious gourmet. Apropos of the Calf’s Head, a certain chronicler tells us of a club called “ The Calf’s-licad Club,” which flourished, to some extent, after the Restoration of Charles II. Its membership consisted of extreme Puritans, who dined together every year on January 30—the anniversary of the execution of Charles I. The club was not so named out of any disrespect that its members might entertain for each other, but because the death of the king was commemorated in their fanatical imaginations by one of the members dressed as an executioner advancing into their midst and throwing a fresh Calf’s Head on to a bonfire. To this day, amongst certain advanced Re- publicans, January 30 is celebrated as “ Calf’s-head Day,” and they are then accustomed to dine with their friends off this delicate dish, which shows them to be fraught with excellent culinary taste if not political judgment. Before being submitted to the cook, a Calf's Head requires considerable attention on the part of the butcher. It should be cleansed thoroughly by soaking in cold water and then scalding so that all the hair can be readily scraped off, the bones cut down, and the eyes removed. In this state the cook can deal with it, which he does by at once removing the brains and tongue. The brains are to be blanched, as already described under that sub- head, and the tongue left to soak in strongly salted water. The head is next soaked in salted water until all the blood is disgorged, and then it is usual to plunge it into scalding water containing salt and vinegar. After a few minutes in this, it can be taken out again and plunged270 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. C alf—co nt inued. into cold water and there left until wanted, or dried with a cloth and set on a dish in the pantry with the feet and other parts ready for use (see Tig. 307). Baked Calf’s Head.—(1) Take out the brains, and put the head in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; boil until the meat will easily leave the bones. Cut up the meat, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put it on a dish with 1 wineglassful of wine, 4oz. of butter, and the brains which have been boiled separately. Put the dish in the oven, and bake until done. (2) Put a Calf’s Head in a saucepan of water, and boil it until it is quite tender. Cut the meat into pieces, and put it on a dish with a sprig of thyme, a pinch of mace, pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Mix 1 table-spoonful of softened butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour; work it into the meat, and put a layer of breadcrumbs on the top. Pour in a wineglassful of wine, and fill up the dish with the water the head was boiled in. Place the dish in a good oven, and bake for forty-five minutes. Serve with a garnish of forcemeat balls, and hard- boiled eggs cut in slices. (3) German Style. — Split open a Calf’s Head with the neck attached to it, scald it until it is perfectly white, and remove the jawbone. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, and over this put a thin beef-steak, and season well with salt and pepper. Place the head on the steak, moisten with beef-broth, add a bunch of sweet herbs and an onion stuck with cloves; cover over the pan, and cook until the head is tender. In the meantime prepare a ragout with lqt. of gravy and 1 pint of port wine boiled together, add to this one or two sweetbreads, parboiled and cut in slices, also eighteen oysters, a few mushrooms and truffles, and cook until the whole is tender. Place the head on a dish, and remove the brains, eyes, bones, and tongue; chop up the brains and tongue, put them on a baking-dish, pour over a little of the ragout, place the head over this, and pour over the remainder of the ragout, as well as a little melted butter. Scrape over a little Parmesan cheese, bake iu a moderate oven until well browned, and serve. Two-hours-and-a-quarter will be sufficient time for cooking from the commencement to the finish. Boiled. Calf’s Head. — (1) Plunge a fine, fresh, white Calf’s Head into hot water for one minute, lift it up, and sharply rub it all over with a coarse towel so as to remove all the remaining hairs. Carefully cut the flesh, starting from the centre of the head, right down to the nostrils. Then, with a very keen knife bone it from the top to the base on both sides. Place in a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 gill of vinegar, one medium-sized, well-cleaned, sliced carrot, one sound peeled onion, eighteen whole peppers, and 2 pinches of salt. Poul- in very gradually 2qts. of cold water, briskly stirring until all is added. Cut up half of the head into six equal pieces, add them to the broth, as also the other whole half, and let all cook together on a moderate fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Lift up the pieces and the half head, and place the six pieces on a dry napkin. Have ready a hot dish with a folded napkin over it, neatly dress the six pieces on it, decorate with parsley or greens, and serve with any desired sauce. Place the remaining half head in a stone jar, strain the broth over it, and keep it in a cool place for any purpose required. (2) Thoroughly clean a Calf’s Head, i-emoving the brains and tongue, and boil it tied up in a cloth to keep it white. It is For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Calf—continued. as well to soak the head for two or three hours previously to boiling, as it improves the colour. Wash, soak, and blanch the brains, then boil them ; scald some sage, chop it fine, add pepper and salt and a little milk, and mix it up with the brains. The tongue, which should be soaked in salted water for twenty-four hours, should be boiled, peeled, and served on a separate dish. The head should boil until tender, and if intended to be sent to the table plain should bo served as taken up, with melted butter and parsley; if otherwise, when the head is boiled sufficiently tender, take it up, spread over a coat of the well-beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle with bread- crumbs, and brown before the fire, or in the oven before serving; or the plain-boiled head may be garnished with lemons, mushrooms, cocks’ combs, truffles, and attelettes (see Pig. 308). Boiled Calf’s Head a la Cavour.—Take half a boiled Calf’s Head as for Boiled Cale’s Head No. 1. Before serving, pour over 1 gill of hot tomato sauce, and surround it with twenty- four stoned and blanched olives, arranged in clusters, and six sippets of fried bread. Boiled Calf’s Head ■with. Poulette Sauce.— Pour £ pint of hot poulette sauce over half a boiled Calf’s Head, sprinkle it with 5 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Boiled Calf’s Head with. Vinaigrette Sauce.—Proceed the same as for Boiled Calf’s Head No. 2, laying a folded napkin on the dish and arranging thereon the half of the head. Serve with parsley-leaves round the dish and 1 pint of vinaigrette sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Calf's Head.—Clean and bone the head. Prepare a sufficient quantity of finely-chopped lean veal and fat bacon to stuff it. Season the stuffing with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, and bind it with the beaten yolks of two or three eggs. Stuff the head, sew it up securely to prevent the stuffing from falling out, and wrap it in a cloth. Line a braising-pan with slices of veal and bacon and a few slices of carrots, put in the head with a bunch of thyme and parsley and two bay- leaves ; season to taste with spice, and pour in 1 pint of broth and I pint of white wine. Stew the head for four hours. When cooked, take it out of the cloth, put it on a hot dish, garnish with a financiers ragout. Strain the cooking-liquor of the head into a small clean stewpan, mix 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine with it, boil for a few minutes, then pour it over the head, and serve. Calf’s Head Bigarre.—(1) Cut off the bones of the lower jaw and the nose-bone of a Calf’s Head, the latter as close to the eyes as possible. Well wash the head in plenty of hot water, to remove all the blood, then blanch it and let it cool. Cut lib. each of fat bacon and beef-suet into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with |lb. of butter, two small onions, a bunch of parsley, the juice of one lemon, a few sprigs of thyme, one or two bay-leaves, and a small quantity each of cloves, mace, allspice, pepper, and salt. Pour in as much water as will cover the head when it is put in, and boil the mixture for an hour. Wrap the head in a cloth, put it into the boiling liquor, and boil for three hours. When cooked, unwrap the head, split it into halves, put them between two plates with a heavy weight on the top to keep them in shape, and leave them till cold. Thoroughly beat the yolks of four eggs with about loz. of warmed butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; when the halves of the head are cold, dip one in the beaten egg, giving it a good coating, then cover it thickly with finely-grated stale breadcrumbs, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Boll the other half of the head in what is left of the beaten egg; mix some finely-chopped parsley in the breadcrumbs, and cover it thickly with them. Warm some butter, dip a paste-brush in it, and shake it over the breadcrumbs to prevent them from burn- ing while in the oven. Put the halves of the head on a baking- tin, and place in the oven till nicely browned. Put the Calf’s Head on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce, or, if preferred, either parsley sauce or Italian sauce can be used. (2) Scald and clean a Calf’s Head, put it into a saucepan with a lump of salt and boil it until tender. Drain and bone the head, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and press it to an oblong shape. When the head is quite cold cut it in halves. Warm loz. of butter, and beat it well Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 271 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. with the yolks of four eggs; season with salt and pepper. Brush the head over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten eggs, then strew it thickly with grated breadcrumbs; brush it over again with the beaten eggs, then cover with more breadcrumbs, this time mixing finely-chopped parsley with them. Put the head on a baking-dish, and bake it in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Boil the brains, and when tender chop them finely; put them in a saucepan with £ pint of gravy, season it with salt and cayenne pepper, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. When the head is cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and Berve with a sauceboatful of parsley and butter sauce. Calf’s-Head Cheese.—This tasty preparation can be made with any remains of cold, cooked Calf s Head, as follows: Cut the meat into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with some brains or brain sauce, pour in 1 wineglassful t f Madeira or sherry, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and sufficient Calf’s-Head stock to cover; dust in some salt, pepper, and powdered sage, and add a lump of sugar. When boiling move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently, keeping them well stirred. When the liquor has reduced to a jelly, turn the cheese into a mould, and leave it till cold and stiff. When ready to serve, tarn the cheese out of the mould on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a dish. Calf’s Head d la Pinanciere.—For the preparation of this fanciful dish all the parts of the head are prepared as for a ragout—the ears are scalded and stuffed, the brains made into cakes. The pieces of meat are cut into large discs and arranged round a pain of forcemeat made of the trimmings. and around this again, either on the same dish or one below it, the cars and brain-cakes are arranged with blanched olives and button mushrooms. Attelettes garnished with cocks’ combs, truffles, and other things surmount the whole (see Fig. 309). Calf’s Head a 1% Luxemborg-.—Run a knife under the skin upon the top of the skull and saw off about 2in. of the skull-bone. Boil the head, take it out and drain it, and wipe on a cloth. Prepare a forcemeat as follows: Well wash the brains, cut them up into slices, put them into a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, sprinkle over with chopped parsley, salt and pepper, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and cook gently over a slow fire, turning frequently. Mince them as fine as possible, put them into a basin, mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and chopped lemon-peel, and make the whole into a mass by adding the yolks of two eggs. Spread this over the head placed in a saute-pan, brush the surface with egg, sprinkle over bread- crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. Brown the top with a salamander, and put it on a dish. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of scraped horseradish, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a wineglassful of brandy; boil for five minutes, then add 3 pints of brown sauce and 1 pint of clear consomme. Boil up again, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim well, and let the whole remain until it is reduced to Calf—continued. two-thirds its original quantity. Strain it into another sauce- pan, add two dozen each of pickled mushrooms and small gherkins, warm them, add loz. of anchovy butter and | teaspoonful of sugar, pour this round the head on a dish, and serve. Calf’s Head d la Roy ale.—This is considered by all epicures the very king of Calf’s-head dishes. In the centre of a silver dish is set a pain of forcemeat made from fragments of the heads and necks used, scraps of veal, tongue, and other things. Round this are laid, overlapping each other, discs of the meat off the head, and between these, alternately, a blanched cock’s Fig. 310. Calf’s Head k la Royale. comb and three button mushrooms, decreasing in size upwards. The ears, scored and stuffed with a trufflo in each, are set on the pain with truffles between them, and fried bread wedge- shaped croutons are ranged round the pain, with truffles set on the base of every other crouton. A few sprigs of fried parsley are sometimes added, and the whole served with royal sauce. See Fig. 310. Calf’s-Head Pie. — (1) Cut into square pieces a half-boiled Calf’s Head. Put a layer of ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, cover over with the pieces of the head, first fat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and halves of hard-boiled eggs intermixed, and so on until the dish is full, taking care to allow room for warm jelly to be poured in. The meat should be highly seasoned. Cover over the pie with a good crust, put it into a slow oven, and bake. Take it out when done, make a hole in the top, and pour in a little gravy; then turn the pie out on to a dish and serve. (2) Cut into small pieces a Calf’s Head, plain boiled until it is nearly cooked; dust them over with salt, pepper, and a little flour, serving the brains and skinned tongue in the same way. Put these into a pie-dish in alternate layers, seasoning with chopped lemon-peel, minced sage and thyme, and a little grated nutmeg. Pour in sufficient of the stock in which the head was boiled to moisten, and add 1 wine- glassful of white wine and £ table-spoonful of sauce (Worcester- shire or Harvey’s for preference). Cover over with a good crust, and bake in a brisk oven until it is done, taking care not to let the gravy boil over; serve either hot or cold. If desired, a little lean cooked veal and a prepared sweetbread may be added, as well as a flavouring of mushrooms, truffles, or oysters, according to taste. The pie may also be made in a terrine, in which case it will not require any crust. Calf’s-Head Ragout.—Cut the meat from a parboiled Calf’s Head into thin slices, put all the bones into the pan in which the head was cooked, add lib. of gravy beef cut into slices, a little ham or bacon, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil for an hour, strain it into another saucepan, put in the meat, and cook for about forty-five minutes. Now add a boned anchovy, a bruised blade of mace, 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon- pickle, 1 wineglassful of wine, ^oz. of truffles, a few slices of lemon, and cayenne and salt to taste. Add a thickening of flour and butter, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of forcemeat balls and brain cakes. The time allowed for cooking from the commencement is two- hours-and-a-half. Calf’s-Head Salad.—Clean and boil a Calf’s Head till tender in salted and slightly acidulated water ; when cooked, drain it and leave till cold. Cut the tongue and cheek into moderate-sized pieces, and put them in a marinade for half-272 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf — continued. an-hour. Cut two boiled potatoes, a boiled beetroot, and a boiled carrot into small pieces, and chop a bunch of cress. Drain the meat, then mix all the vegetables in the marinade. Arrange the meat in the centre of a salad-bowl, and put the vegetables in a circle round it to form a border. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of thick mayonnaise dressing with a little tarragon vinegar, pour it over the salad, and serve. Calf’s-Kead Soup.—The head, liver, tongue, and brains of a Calf should be boiled together the day before it is required for use. Take them, when perfectly tender, out of the liquor, and set them away to cool; skimming the liquor while boiling. Take all the bones from the meat, cut it in small pieces, put it back into the liquor in a saucepan with salt, pepper, sweet marjoram, cloves, and a little cayenne ; boil two hours, and add 1 pint of red wine. Boil ten eggs hard, pound five of them with a little flour and butter to thicken the soup, and cut the remaining five into slices to garnish the soup. While the head is cooking keep up the quantity of water by adding more as it boils away. Calf’s Head en Tortue.—(1) Cut the meat of half a cold boiled Calf’s Head into small pieces. Mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with ^ pint of stiffly-reduced stock, add the whole yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and the whites cut into small pieces, three chopped gherkins, six quenelles of veal force- meat, the pieces of head, and a little cayenne pepper. Stand the saucepan over the fire till the contents are hot. Pile the pieces of head in the middle of a hot dish, pour the sauce and eggs round it, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Prepare and cut into six equal pieces (as for Boiled Calf’s Head No. 1) half a Calf’s Head; place them on a hot dish, pour over £ pint of hot tortue garnishing, decorate with three pieces of heart-shaped, fried croutons, a little fried parsley, and send to the table very hot. (3) After a Calf’s Head has been cleaned and boiled until tender, it is to be separated into four or six large pieces, the ears being cut into a fancy shape, or nearly severed. One large piece from the cheek should be larded, and the brains should be blanched. Four large crayfish should be boiled and some chicken quenelles prepared. When all these are finished, make lqt. of brown mushroom sauce; boil six eggs hard, and remove the yolks entire. Brown the larded head in a hot oven, heat the rest of the head in the mushroom sauce, and then arrange the dish, using a small dish set in a large one for a border, or make the border of freshly-baked puff paste. The quenelles, brains, and egg yolks are heated with the head, and form the ragout which surrounds the large pieces. Collared Calf’s Head. — Scald the head, then scrape it to remove all the hairs; clean it, split it in halves lengthwise, and remove the brains. Boil the head till the bones can be easily separated from the flesh; then take them out, and flatten the head on the table. Sprinkle a thick layer of chopped parsley over the inside of the head, cover it with slices of ham, and then with slices of hard-boiled eggs ; season each layer with salt, pepper, and spices. Boll up the head, then bind it tightly in a cloth; put it in a saucepan with some broth, and boil gently for four hours. When cooked, drain the head, put a heavy weight on the top, and let it be till cold. When ready to serve, remove the cloth, cut the head into slices, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with some neat little sprigs of well-washed parsley, and serve. Curried Cold Calf’s Head.—Cut 2 Jib. of cold boiled Calf’s Head into thin slices, and trim them. Cut into thin slices a large onion, two cooking apples, and a piece of shallot; put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter and fry till brown. Put in 1 table-spoonful of flour and the same quantity of curry powder; stir them over the fire while pouring in gradually 1 pint of broth. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering for half-an-hour, stirring frequently. Put in the pieces of Calf’s Head, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and when the meat is thoroughly hot turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve with a dish of plain- boiled rice. Fricassee of Cold Calf’s Head.—Cut off all the meat from a cold boiled Calf’s Head, put the bones into a saucepan with lqt. Calf— continued. of the stock in which the head was boiled, and add a bunch of savoury herbs, a browned onion, a blade of mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer gently for about an hour, then strain into another saucepan, add the meat from the head, cut into slices, and a thickening of flour and butter, and let the liquor come to the boil. Take out the meat, stir in gradually 2 dessert-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and be careful that the liquor does not boil again, otherwise it will curdle and spoil. Put the meat on a hot dish, strain over the liquor, and serve. A few forcemeat balls placed round the dish will be a good garnish. H desired, a sweetbread cut in pieces may be added to the Calf’s Head, the onion and herbs removed when the stew is done, and 1 teacupful of cream added, but take care not to boil again after the cream is added. Fried Scallops of Calf’s Head. — Cut some cooked Calf’s Head into nice-shaped pieces, rub them over with pepper and salt, brush over with beaten egg, and cover with a thick sprinkling of cracker or breadcrumbs. Put a lump of dripping or lard into a frying- or saute-pan; when it is hot, put in the pieces of meat and fry them quickly till lightly browned. When done, drain them, put on a folded napkin or on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Haslied Calf's Head.—(1) Cut any quantity of cold boiled Calf’s Head into pieces, keeping them about the size of a small apple. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and add 1 breakfast-cupful or so of veal-stock. When well incorporated, add a few small mush- rooms, salt and pepper to taste, and boil well for about ten minutes. Bemove the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the hashed meat, and let it get hot without boiling ; take the pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with the juice of a lemon and strained, and also add a little chopped parsley or tarragon. Turn the hash out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Clean the head, put it in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil it until nearly cooked; then drain it and cut the meat as carefully as possible off the bone. Season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with finely-minced parsley, onion, tarragon, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Take the best and largest pieces of meat, roll them in beaten yolks of eggs, and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, covering them thickly ; then lay them on a tin dish and brown in front of a clear fire. Peel the tongue and cut it with the remainder of the meat in small pieces, lay them in a stewpan, and dredge flour over. Peel and cut an onion into quarters, put it in a saucepan with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a shallot, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and the liquor from a dozen oysters; pour in 1 pint of clear gravy, and boil the whole for fifteen minutes. Strain the gravy when sufficiently boiled over the pieces of meat in the stewpan, put in a few peeled and chopped truffles and morels, about 1 wine- glassful of mushroom ketchup, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put 2oz. of butter in a basin, slightly warm it, then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and half the brain, and beat all well together with a wooden spoon. Stir the brain mixture in with the other ingredients, and keep the whole simmering at the side of the fire, stirring them occasion- ally. Mix with the remainder of the brains the finely-minced peel of a lemon, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, J- teaspoonful of pounded mace, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; bind them together with beaten egg, shape it into small cakes, and fry them in butter until lightly browned. Dip the twelve oysters in beaten yolk of egg, and fry them also in butter until lightly browned. When the pieces of meat in front of the fire are nicely browned, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the boiled mixture over them, garnish with the fried oysters and brain cakes, and serve while very hot. Roasted Calf’s Head.—Trim the head, wash it in plenty of water, and parboil it. Then bone it, and cut out the brains and tongue ; prepare sufficient veal forcemeat, seasoned well with pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, to stuff the head, and make several small balls. Stuff the head with the forcemeat, fasten it with skewers, and bind it round with tape. Fix the head on a roasting-jack, and finish cooking it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with butter. Put the brains in a basin with the yolk of an egg and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and beat them well; seasonTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 273 Calf—continued. with finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Shape the remainder of the forcemeat into small balls ; blanch the tongue and cut it into thin slices, fry them in hot dripping with the forcemeat balls, some thin slices of bacon, and the brain mixture, the latter being dropped into the pan in small quantities with a spoon. When the head is nicely roasted (it will require about an-hour-and-a-half), put it on a hot dish, garnish with the brain cakes, bacon, force- meat balls, and cut lemons, pour a small quantity of thick brown gravy round, and serve with more in a sauceboat. Soused Calf’s Head.—Clean a Calf’s Head, put it into a sauce- pan of hot water, and boil it for five minutes, then drain and bone it. Soak the head for several hours in cold water, which should be changed occasionally. Dry the head on a cloth, rub it all over with salt and bruised garlic, roll it up, and bind it tightly round with tape. Put the head in a saucepan with a lump of salt, ■§■ pint of white wine, and sufficient water to cover it, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, put the head in a jar, pour the liquor over, and cover it. When ready to serve the head, put it on a dish, either whole or cut into slices, and pour a dressing of oil, vinegar, and pepper over it. Stewed Calf's Head.—(1) Bone a Calf’s Head, cut out the tongue and brains, and steep them with the meat in cold water for a few hours. Finely chop 21b. of lean veal and lib. of beef- suet, and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of grated bread- crumbs, the grated peel of one lemon, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of mixed or powdered sweet herbs, and pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg in small quantities. Mix these ingredients well, and bind them together with the beaten yolks of four eggs. Wash the head, dry it on a cloth, stuff it with some of the forcemeat, and bind it round securely with tape. Put the head in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, 2qts. of clear gravy, and ^ pint of white wine. Put the saucepan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side, cover it tightly, and keep the contents simmering until the head is tender. Boil the tongue in a little water, and when cooked, drain it and cut it into thin slices. Chop the brains with a small quantity of parsley, dredge them with about 1 table-spoonful of flour, and season with finely-minced lemon- peel, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; then mix two well-beaten eggs with them. Shape the re- mainder of the forcemeat into small balls, put a large lump of dripping into a frying-pan, make it hot, and fry the force- meat balls in it, also the brain mixture, which should be dropped in in small quantities with a spoon. When fried, drain the forcemeat balls and brain cakes on a wire sieve in front of the fire. When the head is cooked, remove the tapes and place it on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened; more salt and pepper may be added if required. Make the slices of tongue hot in the gravy, then pour it over the Calf’s Head; garnish with slices of lemon, the forcemeat balls, and brain cakes, and serve while very hot. If there is too much liquor to go on the dish with the head, serve the remainder in a sauce- boat. (2) Put half a well-cleaned Calf’s Head (with the skin on) into a saucepan, and add a knuckle of ham and a few onions and sweet herbs. Pour in sufficient water to cover them, and place the pan on the side of the fire to simmer slowly until the flesh can be easily separated from the bones. When this is so, take the half-head out, drain it, and cut it up into large squares. Add gill of white wine to half the liquor, and reduce it over a quick fire to half its original bulk. Put the pieces of meat in a large basin, pour over the reduced liquor, and add a few mushrooms, small onions, a little pork cut up into small pieces, and the tongue cut in slices. Put these into a saucepan, and let them simmer at the side of the fire until all are thoroughly cooked. Add a few forcemeat balls, and serve. The trimmings and remainder of the liquor with a little wine, thickened with flour, will make a good mock-turtle soup. (3) Put half a Calf’s Head in a basin of salted water and a little vinegar, and let it soak for two hours. Take out the brain and tongue, and put the half-head in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it; dissolve in the water 1 table- lfor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, C alf—continued. spoonful of salt, and boil up. When it has been boiling for ten minutes, pour off the liquor, cover again with water, and add two onions with a clove stuck in each, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, a small bunch of parsley with a sprig of thyme, and 1 table- spoonful of salt. Place the pan on the fire and boil for two hours, when the meat should be easily removed from the bones. Take out the head, remove the flesh from the bones, and put it on a dish; cover with white sauce or rich brown gravy. Boil the tongue, skin it, cut in small pieces, and put on a separate dish. In the meantime put the brains in a saucepan with a little of the stock in which the head was boiled, and boil until they are quite firm; chop them up, and put them into a saucepan with about loz. of butter, a squeeze of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley (dried and rubbed very fine), and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan over the fire, and stir until the butter is melted ; then work in smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook again for five minutes. When this is done, put it in little piles on the dish round the tongue, alternately with small rolls of "cooked bacon. Stewed Calf’s Head and Potatoes.—Thoroughly clean the head, put it in a bowl with a lump of salt and water to cover, and leave it for two or three hours. Peel two or three small onions, cut them in quarters, and put into a large saucepan. Chop the head into small portions, put it in with the onions, pour in water to cover, and place it over the fire until boiling ; then move the saucepan to the side, and keep it simmering, gently for nearly three hours. Half-an-hour before dishing up the head, put some peeled potatoes in a saucepan with a lump of salt, and boil them. When cooked, turn the stew and potatoes on to a hot dish, and serve. Calf’s Heart.—This is a part of the internal animal that does not often meet with a favourable reception at high-class tables. The flesh is hard and juiceless, and the fat oily and rich; but there are some persons who have a great taste for a heart, cooked nicely, and are not particular as to whether it is a bullock’s heart or a Calf’s Heart so long as it is stuffed with a savoury stuffing, and roasted, or baked right through. All hearts should be blanched before cooking; that is, they should be soaked and well washed in water, the hard tubes cut away to their roots, and the heart plunged into scalding water and kept in this over the fire for twenty minutes or more; then, take it out and plunge it into cold water for a minute, and the heart will be ready to be stuffed. For roasting or baking, no special directions are needed, but the best way to cook a Calf’s Heart is as follows: Braised Calf’s Heart.—Wash the heart, and remove the veins and arteries. Mix some onion-juice and sweet herbs with some biscuit-crumbs; season with salt and pepper, and bind the ingredients together with a small quantity of warmed butter. Stuff the heart with this mixture, lard it with bacon or salted pork, and dredge it well with salt and flour. Fry an onion in salt-pork fat, or dripping, till nicely browned, then put in the heart and brown that. Put the meat and onion into a braising- Fig. 311. Calf’s Heart. pan, with a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper ; pour in stock or water to half their height. Put the lid on the pan, place it in a moderate oven, and cook the contents for an-hour-and-a-half, basting often. When cooked, put the heart on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor over through a fine hair sieve, and serve it at once while very hot. Garnish with Brussels sprouts and potato-balls (see Fig. 311). Calf’s Kidneys.—These are generally styled “Veal Kidneys,” and there is no reason why they should not 2 D ices, (fcc., rejerred to, see under their special heads.274 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. be, excepting for the sake of the order and discipline set down for the working of this Encyclopaedia, which must be sustained throughout as an example to the race of culinary bibliographers, who appear to revel in exceptional irregularities. But there is one good reason why Calf’s Kidneys are styled “Veal,” and that is because they are generally cooked and served with the loin, whereas sheep’s kidneys find their way most frequently into special dishes, or are cooked separately, and sometimes substituted for Calf’s. Baked Calf’s Kidney.—Trim off the skin and fat from a Calf’s Kidney, and cat it lengthwise into halves. Sift some finely-grated breadcrumbs in Jib. of pork-sausage meat, and a small quantity of chopped truffles; season them with pepper and salt, and bind with a beaten egg. Spread the mixture over the halves of kidneys, and wrap them in pieces of pigs’ caul, allowing room for the forcemeat to swell a little. Put the kidney in a baking-tin, baste it with «butter, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or more, according to the size, bast- ing frequently with the butter in the tin. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned ; stir in a little more than 1 teacupful of stock, and boil. Skim the fat off the sauce, pour in 1 wine- glassful of sherry, and boil up again. Cut the halves of kidneys into slices, arrange them overlapping each other on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Fig. 312. Calf’s Kidney for Broiling. Broiled Calf’s Kidney a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Cut a Calf’s Kidney in halves lengthwise ; beat it lightly, dust a little salt and pepper over, and dip each piece in butter that has been slightly warmed. Thickly coat the pieces of kidney with the butter, and broil them over a clear fire, allowing from four to five minutes for each side. Put 2oz. of butter in a basin, season it with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and work it near the fire till warm, but it must not be oiled. Put the maitre-d’hfitel butter on a dish, place the pieces of kidney over it, and serve. Calf’s Kidneys a la Breton.—Finely chop four large onions, put them in a saucepan with a bay-leaf and a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned. Dredge a little salt, pepper, and flour over the onions, add 1 pinch of sugar, pour in £ pint of gravy, and boil them gently till cooked. Cut two Calf’s Kidneys in slices, and season with salt and pepper; put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry over a quick fire. When the kidneys are cooked, take the pan off the fire, pour a small quantity of glaze and a little lemon-juice over them, and sprinkle in a little chopped parsley; toss them about well till all the slices are covered. Arrange the slices in a circle on a hot dish, and fill the centre with the chopped onions. Garnish with croutons of fried bread that have been brushed over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. Calf’s-Kidney Patties.—Take two Calf’s Kidneys and their suet. Skin the suet and also the kidneys, and chop them both very fine. Peel an apple, and chop it and a little candied lemon-peel very fine, add it to the chopped kidney and suet, together with a few well-washed and dried currants, some sifted breadcrumbs, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg, powdered cloves and mace, and a little salt; mix all these thoroughly, and then stir into it some orange-flower water and a little rich Calf—continued. wine. Make some puff paste, line the bottom of a dish with it, put in the minced kidney mixture, cover with more of the paste, trim the edges, press them together, and bake in a slow oven. Calf’s-Kidney Pudding.—Remove the fat from a Calf’s Kidney, and cut it in moderately thick slices ; season them with salt and cayenne, and cover over with 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and shallot. Line a basin or dome-shaped mould with suet-pudding paste, and cover the bottom with fillet of beef cut in thin slices ; put over this a few pieces of ham, also cut very thin, and arrange the slices of kidney on them in layers with a little kneaded butter between. Mask the top layer with melted glaze, cover over the top of the basin with a crust of the paste, and close the edges all round. Tie the mould (or basin) up in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil over a quick fire for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When done, turn it out on a dish, glaze with a paste-brush, and serve like any other meat pudding. Calf’s-Kidney Soup.—Cut a small onion in slices, and fry in a little butter until slightly coloured. Chop a Calf’s Kidney in small pieces, season with salt and pepper, put it in the pan with the onions, and cook for a few minutes. Drain the kidney from the fat, and put it in a soup-tureen to keep hot. In the meantime have ready 3 pints of richly-flavoured stock, six button mushrooms cooked in a little lemon-juice, and one or two gherkins cut very small. Put the gherkins and mushrooms in the tureen with the kidney. Make the stock quite hot, remove it from the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs and a little cream ; pour it over, and serve very hot. A little cayenne may also be added just before serving, if desired. There are various methods of making kidney soup, but none superior to this. Calf’s Kidney Stewed in Wine.—Cut a Calf’s Kidney in several pieces, remove the sinewy parts, and cut it in slices of a moderate thickness. Put jib. of butter in a frying-pan and melt it; then put in the slices of kidney, season with salt and pepper, and fry them over a brisk fire till the moisture has evaporated. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallot and onions in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry them without browning ; put twelve or eighteen mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and a clove of garlic in with the onions. Pour in Fig. 313. Calf’s Kidneys Stewed in Wine. over the onions, &c., ( pint of white wine and J pint of gravy. Boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan; mix with it a little thick brown sauce and i teacupful of melted glaze, stir it over the fire for three minutes, then put in the slices of kidney, and heat them without boiling. Take the garlic and bunch of parsley out of the liquor, put the kidney and sauce on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve ; or the slices of kidney may be served in a fancy paste croustade (see Fig. 313). Croquettes of Calf’s Kidney.—Mince a Calf’s Kidney with some of its fat; season with cayenne, white pepper, and salt, cover with breadcrumbs and yolk of egg, make it into balls, and fry in boiling butter. Drain them upon a sieve, and serve upon fried parsley. Fried Calf’s Kidneys.—(1) Remove the fat from some kidneys, and cut them in rather thin slices ; sprinkle the slices over275 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continutd. with salt and pepper, plunge into well-beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter until done. Put a mince of mushrooms in the centre of a dish, place the slices of kidney round, cover over with a few table-spoonfuls of Colbert sauce, and serve. (2) Cut a Calf’s Kidney in slices, season it with salt and pepper, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry quickly until set. Remove the pan from the fire, add a little lemon-juice, a few table-spoonfuls of glaze, and a little chopped parsley, and toss the pan frequently to thoroughly mix them. In the meantime mince six onions, and fry them over a moderate fire with a little butter and a bay-leaf; when they are a good colour, season with salt and pepper, add a little pinch of sugar, sprinkle over with flour, add £ pint of gravy, and finish cooking. Put this onion ragout on a hot dish, leaving a hollow in the centre, pour the kidney mixture in the centre, and garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, glaze with a paste-brush, and serve. Minced Calf’s Kidneys on Crofttons.—Cut some slices of bread, about |in. thick, from a household loaf, and fry them in a little butter. When done, take them out, drain them, and cut out a little of the centre. In the meantime remove the skin from a Calf’s Kidney, and put into a stewpan to cook. When done, remove all the fat, and cut it up into small pieces. Put an equal bulk of cooked mushrooms, with a little bechamel sauce, in a small pot, add a little minced ham and melted glaze, and reduce this to a thick cream. Work in the kidney mince, warm it up, grate a little nutmeg over, and fill the croutons with it. Smooth the tops with a knife, then sprinkle them with breadcrumbs, pour a little warmed butter over, and glaze with a salamander. They should be arranged on a folded napkin laid on a dish, and served very hot. Omelet of Calf’s Kidney.—Chop up what is left of the kidney of a cold roasted loin of veal. Put eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt, pour in a few drops of water to melt the salt, and beat well. Mix the chopped kidney with the eggs. Put a lump of butter in an omelet-pan, melt it, and then pour in the omelet mixture. Tho pan should be continually turned, and not kept too close to the fire. Gather up the edges of the omelet, and roll it before it is too much cooked: the middle part should always be mellow. Turn tho omelet quickly on to a hot dish, and^ serve. Calf’s Lights or Lungs.—It cannot be said that there is much demand or culinary use for this offal, unless it be for invalids whose tastes are occasionally governed by faith and eccentricity. For those whose inclinations lead in this direction, two famous receipts are appended, and others will be found under Calf’s Pluck. Calfs-Iiig-lits Broth, for Invalids.—This medicinal broth is of very ancient notoriety. Well wash the lights (lungs) of a freshly-killed Calf; cut them in largo pieces, put them into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and cook until reduced to one-third the original quantity. Now add six dates, four large figs, |oz. of raisins, and six jujubes, and boil for ten minutes longer. Remove the pan from the fire, put (in £oz. each of the following medicinal herbs: maidenhair fern, ceterach, polytrichum, scolopendrium, and polypody; let these infuse for about ten minutes, with the pan covered over; pass the liquor through a fine cloth, and it is ready for use. Taken warm, a little in the morning and evening, this broth is considered to be a capital drink for diseases of the chest. It may not always be possible to get the herbs named, in which case it is probable others might be substituted. Stewed Calf’s Lights and Liver.—Boil half of a Calf’s Lights in salted water; drain it, wipe with a cloth, and cut in thin slices. Cut half a Calf’s Liver in the same way. Finely chop three large onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry gently; season the onions with salt and pepper, and when they are nicely browned, add the lights, and cook them over a slow fire till all tho moisture is reduced ; then put in the liver, season it, and fry over a quick fire. When cooked, put in with the liver, &c., 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley and a small quantity of the best vinegar. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Calf—continued. Calf’s Liver.—Those who are addicted to the eating of liver will appreciate that of the Calf above all others. It should be cut into slices about ^in. thick, and thoroughly washed, dried, and floured before using. The flesh is close and dry when cooked, and therefore requires some qualifying material to be served with it, such as bacon. Baked Larded Calf’s Liver with Onions.—Take about one-third as much bacon or salted pork as you have liver, cut it in thin strips tho size of a pencil, and draw it through the liver with a larding-needle; the strips should be very close together, and done in such a manner that the slices can be cut across them after cooking. Put the liver in a baking-dish with plenty of veal- or beef-dripping, lay a sheet of greased paper on the top, and bake for half-an-hour or more, according to size. When cooked, cut the liver in slices, put them on a hot dish, pour onion sauce over, and serve. Bewitched Calf’s Liver. — Chop finely 31b. of liver with lib. of salted pork. Mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 1 saltspoonful of red pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. Mix all together, put it into a tin mould, and tie a cloth over the top; stand it in a saucepan with some cold water, and let it boil for two hours. Take the mould out of tho water, put it in a moderate oven to dry. When cold, turn the contents on a dish, and serve. Braised Calf’s Liver. — (1) Remove the skin, spleen, and gall from a very white Calf’s Liver; interlard it inwardly with some well-seasoned fillets of ham and fat bacon: the larding should be done in such a way that tho fillets do not cross the top surface. Put the liver in a basin with some trimmings of truffles, a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and a little salt and spices. Let it remain in this for two hours, then wrap the liver and seasonings up in a large piece of pig’s caul, and tie it securely with string. Place a good-sized lump of lard in a stewpan, and when boiling put the liver in ; fry it for fifteen minutes, then put the lid on the stew- pan with some live embers on the top, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and braise the liver for one hour, turning it every now and then. Peel and scald two dozen small onions and two dozen small carrots, put them in with the liver, the onions on one side and the carrots on the other, sprinkle in a little salt, put the lid on the stewpan again, with a fresh supply of live embers on the top, and finish cooking by tho side of a moderate fire for another hour. Take out the liver, drain it, put it on a hot dish, and arrange tho vegetables tastefully round it. Skim the fat off tho cooking-liquor, mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine and a little gravy, boil quickly till reduced to half, then mix with it a little brown sauce, and stir over the fire a few minutes longer. Sprinkle in a little pepper and salt, strain the sauce, pour it over the liver, and serve. (2) Procure a fine white Calf’s Liver, lard the upper side of it with well-seasoned strips of bacon, and put it in a sauce- pan with some trimmings of veal, turnips, carrots, two or three thin slices of bacon, two or three shallots, a clove of garlic, bottle of white wine, and some broth. Cover with thin slices of bacon, put on the lid, with some live embers on the top, and let it cook slowly. When done, put the liver on a hot dish, strain the gravy through a colander, then boil it till reduced to one-half; thicken it with a little flour, pour it over the liver, and serve. Broiled Calf’s Liver -with. Bacon.—Take a white, tender, fresh Calf’s Liver weighing l|lb., pare and trim off the hard portions, cut it into six equal-sized slices, and put them on a dish. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil; mix well together. Broil for a few minutes on each side, arrange the slices on a hot dish, and decorate with six thin, crisp slices of broiled bacon. Spread over the whole 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve very hot. Calf’s Liver a la Brochette.- Cut lib. of liver into thin slices, then take the same number of slices of bacon, and cut all in square dice; arrange them on skewers, a piece of liver and a piece of bacon alternately, till the skewers are full. Sprinkle pepper over them, put them in a dripping- pan in the oven, and turn them over several times while 2 D 2TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 276 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—con t inu ed. baking. When cooked, put the liver and bacon on long pieces of buttered toast on a hot dish, and serve with a brown gravy. Calf’s Liver d la Franpaise.—Choose a firm white liver, cut it into slices, and put them in a saucepan with two thin slices of fat bacon, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 finely- chopped shallot, a small lump of butter, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Put on the lid, and keep the saucepan close to a moderate fire, so that the liver will cook without simmering. When thoroughly done, which will take about an-hour-and-a-half, put it on a hot dish, and keep it warm. Boil the gravy and bacon together, pour it over the liver, and serve at once. Calf’s Liver a l’ltalienne.—Select a firm white liver, and cut it into thin slices. Put some chopped mushrooms, chives, and parsley at the bottom of a saucepan, with a little white wine, olive oil, and melted lard. Sprinkle pepper and salt in, then put a layer of Calf’s Liver on this, and continue in this manner till the saucepan is nearly full; put some slices of bacon on the top, put on the lid, with some red-hot coals on top, and cook all over a slow fire. When done, arrange the liver on a hot dish, skim the fat off the sauce, reduce it, pour it over the liver, and serve. Calf's Liver a la Milanaise.—Cut a large white liver into thin slices, beat them slightly, sprinkle a little salt and mixed spices over them, dredge with flour, and dip in beaten eggs. Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling, plunge the slices of liver in. Fry them till nicely browned, and sprinkle a little salt over them ; arrange on a hot dish, with a garnish of lemons cut in quarters, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Balls for Soups.—Trim off the skin from half a Calf’s Liver, and chop it finely; mix with it 4oz. of chopped beef-suet, a slice of bread that has been soaked in milk and pressed dry, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a small quantity of any herb in powder, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix the ingredients well, and bind them together with the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Add grated breadcrumb to make the mixture consistent. Divide the mixture into small portions, roll them round, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for thirty or thirty-five minutes. Serve the balls in a tureen with soup. Calf’s-Liver Broth.—Remove all the uneatable parts near the gall-bladder from a well-coloured Calf’s Liver, put it into a saucepan with Igall. of water, and boil for two hours, or until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Add a small handful each of burnet-leaves, wild endive, water- cress, and chervil; cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, and put the lid on it for ten minutes. Strain the broth through a fine sieve, and use lukewarm as desired. This is an excellent drink for persons in a high state of fever. Calf’s-Liver Fain or Cake.—(1) Put a small chopped onion in a frying-pan, with a little melted bacon-fat; when fried, add a bay-leaf, a little thyme, 5oz. of lean bacon cut in dice, and lilb. of liver cut in thin slices; sprinkle pepper, salt, and spices over, and fry them. When the liver is done, put in a few freshly-chopped trimmings of mushrooms, some chopped trimmings of truffles, and 1 teacupful of Madeira. Boil quickly till reduced, then take the preparation off the fire, and leave it till cool. Put into a mortar a piece of bread, previously soaked in water, with a quarter of the quantity of the liver preparation, pound it, and then mix in gradually two whole eggs and the yolks of four ; when thoroughly mixed, pass the forcemeat through a sieve, season it with pepper and salt, and work it for a few minutes with a spoon. Butter a Calf—confirmed. plain cylindrical mould, fill it with the forcemeat, stand the mould in the bain-marie, and poach it for forty minutes. Turn the contents of the mould out on to a hot dish, pour some Madeira sauce over, and serve. See Fig. 314. (2) Glazed. —Put a small chopped onion into a frying-pan, with 5oz. of rasped bacon; when of a good colour, put in about lilb. of Calf’s Liver and lOoz. of fat bacon cut into small cubes, and add a bay-leaf and a little thyme. Place the pan over a brisk fire, season the meat to taste, and cook until the liver is done. Add \ wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce this, turn the whole into a basin, and let it get cold. Put it into a mortar, add a quarter its bulk of bread panada, pound them well together, add the yolks of three eggs, rub the mixture through a fine sieve into another basin, and add to it a salpifon of truffles, tongue, and Calf’s udder, boiled, or simply some cooked fat bacon, using about a third of the bulk of the liver mixture. Put a few slices of fat bacon at the bottom and round the sides of a charlotte-mould, pour in the preparation, put the mould into a saucepan with 1 pint or so of boiling water, and cook in a slow oven for about forty-five minutes. Take out the mould, let it cool for five or six hours, dip it into boiling water, ease the sides with a knife, and turn it out on to a dish. Remove the slices of bacon, smooth the surface with a knife dipped in hot water, glaze it with a paste-brush, let it cool, and serve. (3) German Style.—Remove the sinewy parts from about ljlb. of Calf’s Liver, scrape it well, rub it through a sieve into a basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix in a little finely-chopped onion and parsley. Work lOoz. of butter to a cream in a warm basin, add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, when frothy add a little flour, three handfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and lastly the liver, and season well. Try a small quantity in a tartlet-mould, which poach in the oven, and if of the required consistence, turn the whole into a buttered and breadcrumbed cylinder mould, put it in a pan with a little water, cover over the top with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Drain off the fat from the mould, turn it out on to a dish, pour over hot piquant sauce, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Fain or Cake in Jelly.—Prepare some Calf’s Liver as for Pain or Cake in German Style, but omitting the breadcrumbs; rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, mix in an equal quantity of tepid aspic-jelly and a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Turn the preparation into a saucepan packed in ice, stir well until it thickens, remove it from the ice, add Fig. 315. Calf’s-Liver Pain in Jelly. four or five cooked truffles cut up into small squares, and turn the whole into a cylinder mould packed in ice. Turn it out in about an hour’s time, glaze the sides with half-set jelly, decorate with truffles cut into small rounds or crescents, arrange a few croutons of aspic jelly round the base (see Fig. 315), and serve. Calf’s-Liver Pudding.—Wash 1lb. of Calf’s Liver, put it into a stewpan with a very small quantity of water, and let it cook slowly by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. At the end of that time, drain the liver, cut it up into small squares, season with pepper and salt, and mix with it someTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 277 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads Calf—continued. small pieces of either bacon-, beef-, or mutton-fat. Eub ilb. of dripping in lib. of flour till quite smooth, then gradually stir in sufficient water to make a stiff dough. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, and roll the dough out three times. Butter a pudding-basin and line it with the paste ; fill it with the liver and fat, well mixing, pour in whatever is left of the cooking-liquor, and cover with a flat of the same crust. Tie the basin in a cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pud- ding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve it without delay. A little paftially-boiled onion may be put into the pudding before it is cooked. Calf’s-Liver Eag'ofi.t.—Put 111b. of Calf’s Liver into a sauce- pan with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it come to the boil and let it boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Then take it out of tbe water, and when it is nearly cold grate it on a grater. Chop fine ^lb. of bacon and mix it with the grated liver ; mix with it also 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat well the yolks of two eggs and 1 gill of cream, and mix these in. Put the mixture into a saucepan and stir it over a slow fire till it is very hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it on a hot dish. Calf’s-Liver Bolls.— Cut a Calf’s Liver in long, even slices; scald them, and strip off the skin. Lay the slices of liver on the table, and season them with salt and pepper. Season 5lb. of sausage-meat, or chopped raw veal, with salt, pepper, and any powdered sweet herb except sage ; mix a raw egg with it, and then spread it over the slices of liver ; roll the slices, and tie them with string. Put into a frying-pan over the fire enough butter or beef-dripping to cover the bottom, and let it heat; when it begins to brown, put in the rolls of liver and brown them. While the liver rolls are browning, carefully wash lqt. of small potatoes, and when the rolls are brown put them into an earthen baking-dish with the potatoes. Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into the frying-pan, and brown it; then gradually stir in lqt. of boiling water, season this highly with salt and pepper, let it boil, and then pour it into the dish with the liver and potatoes. Set tbe dish in a moderate oven, bake its contents for about half-an-hour, or until the potatoes are done, and serve hot in the same dish. After the liver rolls have been browned, as directed above, they can be dusted over with flour and again browned, and covered with boiling water and stewed until tender in the gravy thus made. When they are tender and seasoned, they may be served with a dish of plain-boiled potatoes. Calf’s-Liver Salad.— Put lib. of Calf’s Liver in a baking- dish, with a small quantity of butter to baste it with, and bake. When cooked, leave the liver till cold, then cut it into pieces lin. square. Wash some cabbage lettuces, put in the pieces of a Calf’s Liver, pour a remoulade dressing over, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Saute a la Provenpale.—Proceed as for Stewed Gale’s Liver a l’Italienne, adding two crushed cloves of garlic and the juice of half a lemon. Serve, with 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Calf’s-Liver Saute.— Cut some liver in thin slices, and dust them with salt and pepper. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire till well mixed ; then lay in the slices of liver and brown them on both sides. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the liver, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 table- spoonful of wine. Boil up, then arrange the slices of liver on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Saute with Piquant Sauce.—Cut some liver in slices about Jin. thick ; put them in a frying-pan with enough beef- or pork-dripping to prevent them from sticking; cook slowly for eight minutes, turning constantly. When done, put the slices of liver on a hot dish, pour a piquant sauce over them, and serve. Calf’s-Liver Souffle.—Take one-third of a Calf’s Liver and cut it in thin slices ; put them in a frying-pan with some melted fat bacon, a few trimmings of truffles, 1 pinch of pounded sweet herbs, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and fry. When done, take off the fire and allow to cool. Put the cooked liver in a mortar with one-fourth of its bulk of panada and a piece of butter; pound all well together, sprinkle pepper and salt Calf—continued. over, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Reduce 1 teacupful of Maieira sauce with a little meat-glaze and mix it with the forcemeat, beat in the yolks of six eggs, one by one, and at the last four whipped whites of eggs. Butter a souffle- pan, fill it with the preparation, put it in a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. Turn the souffle on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Curried Calf’s Liver.— (1) Cut 21b. of liver into small, thin pieces. Fry two small, sliced onions in a little butter, then put in the pieces of liver and fry them, adding more butter as required. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of curry powder with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, mix it in with the liver, sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little cayenne over; stir all over the fire for two or three minutes, then add slowly 1J breakfast-cupfuls of stock. Boil up, then turn all on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Indian Mode.—Woll wash and parboil lib. each of Calf’s Liver and udder, cut them in small pieces, pound to a pulp in a mortar, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Form the whole into a mass by adding an egg, using also a little broth should the mixture be too stiff. Make it into balls and roll them well in breadcrumbs. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of fat or mustard oil into a pan on the fire, boil it, add the curry mixture, composed of 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, ^ teaspoonful each of ground ginger and peppercorns, i teaspoonful of ground garlic, and 1 dessert- spoonful of finely-minced or powdered sweet herbs. Sprinkle over a little water, brown the mixture, add the liver balls, sprinkle them over with salt to taste, brown them also, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of weak broth or water, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until done, which will take about two hours. Put the preparation, when ready, on a dish, and serve very hot. Forcemeat of Calf’s Liver and Bacon.—Take a Calf’s Liver, weigh it, and for every pound use 4oz. of fat bacon. Keep them separate and chop them very fine. Put a shallot, an onion, and a small clove of garlic (or the garlic may be omitted) into a stewpan with a little butter and stew them, but not enough to brown them. Put the cover over the pan, and let it remain until the onions are tender. Put some crumb of bread into a basin with a little water or milk, and let it soak ; when sufficiently soaked, take it out, squeeze it as dry as possible, and add it to the mixture in the pan; mix to a thick paste, putting in a little more butter if wanted. Put the paste in a mortar, and mix in with it the liver and bacon and a little grated nutmeg, ground allspice, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. Pass this mixture through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. Fried Calf’s Liver.—(1) Lay a Calf’s Liver in vinegar for twelve hours to render it firm; dip it in cold spring water, and wipe it dry; cut it in slices, sprinkle sweet herbs crum- bled finely over it, add popper and salt, and dredge with flour ; fry in boiling lard or butter, the latter being preferable. Remove it when fried a good brown, pour away a portion of the fat, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, with a lump of butter well rolled in flour, in which a table-spoonful of vinegar and cayenne or lemon-juice has been stirred; boil it up, keeping it stirred all the while, and serve the liver in it. Slices of fried bacon should be served with it. (2) Procure a very white Calf’s Liver, cut it into equal-sized slices, dip them in flour, and fry in boiling butter till browned. When done, put the liver on a hot dish, and set it where it will keep hot while the gravy is being prepared. Finely mince some sweet herbs and parsley, and put it in the frying-pan with a little more butter, the juice of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a little water, and pepper and salt to taste ; stir and let it boil gently till the herbs are cooked, then pour it over the liver and serve. Fried Calf's Liver and Bacon served with Spinach.—- Thoroughly wash 2qts. of spinach, trim away the roots and tough stalks, and let it stand in cold water. Slice 21b. of Calf’s Liver about iin. thick; pour boiling water upon it. let it stand until cool enough to permit the skin to be stripped on, then dry it on a cloth, and roll it in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Slice very thin 41b. of bacon, put it over the fire in a frying-pan, and fry it until it begins to crisp; as soon as the bacon is put over the fire drain the spinach, putTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 278 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Calf—continued. it to boil in a large saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil it fast until it is tender, wbicli will take about five minutes. As soon as tbe spinacli is tender, drain it, and throw it into plenty of cold salted water, and as soon as the bacon is crisp take it up on a hot dish and keep it hot. There should be Jin. in depth of fat from the bacon in the frying-pan, or, if the quantity is scant, add a little lard, and when it is hot put in the liver, fry it brown on both sides, cooking it as quickly and as thoroughly as possible, and seasoning it with pepper and salt. When the liver is done, put it on the hot dish with the bacon, and keep it hot. Drain the spinach, put it into the frying-pan with the drippings, and stir it over the fire until it is ho*-, then turn it out on a hot platter, lay the liver and bacon on the spinach, and serve hot. Minced Calf’s Liver.—Chop finely about 1 Jib. of Calf’s Liver, a small onion, and Jib. of fat bacon. Put the onion and bacon in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, and stir it over the fire for five minutes, then put in the liver, dust it with salt and pepper, and any kind of seasoning that may be liked, and stir the whole over the fire for ten minutes. Turn the mixture on to a dish, leave it until cool, then mix three beaten eggs with it. Sew a caul into a bag, put the mince into it, and fasten it at the end. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a saucepan, melt it, then put in the bag, place the lid on the saucepan, and steam it for an hour, turning it occasionally. When cooked, take the caul out of the saucepan and leave it until cold before serving. Quenelles of Calf’s Liver.—Pound lOoz. of white firm Calf’s Liver with 2 table-spoonfuls of fine herbs, pass all through a sieve into a basin ; work with a spoon 5oz. of slightly-warmed butter, two whole eggs, and the yolk of one; when frothy, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and the pounded livers, and sprinkle pepper and salt over. Take small quantities of the preparation with a table-spoon, and drop it into a saucepanful of boiling salted water. When the water begins to bubble, move the saucepan to the side of the fire. When set, take the quenelles out, drain them, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle some breadcrumbs fried in butter over them, and serve. Roasted Calf’s Liver.—(1) Procure a moderate-sized white Calf’s Liver, lard it inwardly with seasoned bacon and fillets of truffles; lard also the upper surface with finely-cut bacon, leaving both ends without larding. Put the liver in a bowl with some trimmings of raw truffles, a few sprigs of parsley, a little fine herbs, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and a little oil. In two hours’ time take the liver out, wrap it with the seasoning in oiled paper, tie it securely at each end with string, run an iron skewer through it, and fix it on the spit. Roast the liver in front of a clear fire, basting continually. In about one hour and twenty minutes’ time, take the paper off, and glaze the liver with a paste-brush. Peel and cut five small, black, raw truffles in dice, and put them in a sauce- pan. Put the trimmings in another saucepan with J- pint of white wine ; boil the liquor quickly till reduced to one-third, then strain it into the saucepan containing the truffles; stir in a little rich brown sauce to thicken it, and boil for seven or eight minutes. Put the liver on a hot dish, pour the truffle sauce over it, and serve. (2) Select a middling-sized, white Calf’s Liver, lard it in- wardly with fillets of fat and a clove of garlic cut in slices, sprinkle pepper and salt and a handful of chopped mushrooms over it, wrap it in a pig’s caul, and tie it securely, fastening it also with an iron skewer. Fix the liver on a spit, and roast it for three-quarters-of-an-hour in front of a clear fire, basting often with the drippings, in which has been mixed a few teaspoonfuls of vinegar. When the liver is cooked, take it off the spit, cut the strings off, but leave the caul on, and place on a hot dish ; skim the fat off the drippings, mix a little rich gravy with them, and boil them up. Fry 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped shallots in a little lard, then add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, J pint of brown sauce, and the gravy from the drippings; boil for a few minutes, then put in 1 pinch of chopped parsley, 1 pinch of pepper, and the juice of one lemon. Pour the sauce over the liver and serve. (3) Select a white Calf’s Liver, lard it with thick fillets of bacon, sprinkle chopped garlic, herbs, and mixed spice over it, cover with a thick layer of lard, and roast in front of a Calf—continued. clear, moderate fire. Put the liver on a hot dish when cooked, skim the fat off the drippings, squeeze a little lemon-juice in, pour it over the liver, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (4) Lard a firm white Calf’s Liver that has been thoroughly cleansed, put it into a pickle composed of vinegar and a few slices of onion, add also a few sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the liver remain in this for twenty-four hours, take it out and drain it, fasten it on a spit and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with its own liquor. Glaze it with a light glaze, put it on a dish, pour round brown sharp sauce, and serve. Although this is an ordinary dish, great care must be used or the effect will be spoiled. Scalloped Calf’s Liver.—Clean a Calf’s Liver and partially boil it; cut it into slices, which trim into small heart-shaped pieces. Put a quantity of shallots and mushrooms into a stew- pan with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, pour in 1 pint of clear broth, and boil them for five minutes; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put in the pieces of liver, and stew gently until tender. When cooked, take the liver out of the liquor, and remove the bunch of herbs and parsley; pour in some more gravy, and put in loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir it over the fire and boil for ten minutes. At the end of that time put in the pieces of liver to make them hot again, then turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Scallops of Calf’s Liver ■with. Fine Herbs.—Cut a Calf’s Liver in slices of equal sizes and shapes, dip them into flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light colour. Take them out when done, and keep hot. Cut up some fine herbs, such as shallots, mushrooms, &c., cook them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and add 1 teaspoonful of flour and a little gravy (or water with a small quantity of glaze added) to moisten; when well cooked add the liver, warm it but without boiling, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and serve as hot as possible. Stewed. Calf’s Liver.—Cut 21b. of Calf’s Liver into square pieces, and put them in a saute-pan with loz. of clarified butter; season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add two medium-sized, sliced onions. When well stewed for, say, about six minutes, pour in 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and 2 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and let the whole just come to the boil. Serve hot on a dish with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. Stewed Calf’s Liver a la Bourgeoise.—Place in a sauce- pan on the fire a small Calf’s Liver thoroughly larded with pieces of larding-pork—previously seasoned with a pinch of chopped parsley and a crushed clove of garlic—with 2 table- spoonfuls of clarified butter, one sprig of thyme, two bay- leaves, half a sliced carrot, and half a sliced onion. Turn the liver over and moisten it with 1 gill of Spanish sauce and 1 gill of white broth. Season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, and cook for forty-five minutes. Strain the sauce into another saucepan, meanwhile keeping the liver in a warm place ; add to the gravy two medium-sized, well-scraped, sliced, raw carrots, and 2oz. of salted pork cut into shreds. Stew well together for twenty-five minutes, and pour the garnishing over the liver just before serving. Decorate with six small onions placed round the dish. Stewed Calf’s Liver a l’ltalienne.— Cut 21b. of fresh Calf’s Liver into small pieces; put them with loz. of clarified butter into a pan on the hot range, with one peeled and finely- chopped onion, and a crushed clove of garlic; season with 1 pinch of salt and J- pinch of pepper. Cook well for five minutes, tossing the pan well all the while; moisten with J wineglassful of white wine and 1 gill of Spanish sauce. Add six chopped mushrooms, and cook again for three minutes. Serve with a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley sprinkled over. Terrine of Calf’s Liver a la Froven$ale.—Select a fine, white liver, cut it in thin slices, and fry them in bacon-fat, with a little chopped onion, a few trimmings of truffles and mushrooms, and two or three sprigs of sweet herbs, and sprinkle salt, pepper, and spices over. When nearly done, pour 1 teacupful of Madeira over; boil till reduced, then move the pan off the fire, and allow the preparation to cool.279 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred, to, see under their special heads. Calf—cont inued. Pound the liver when cold, and mix with it an equal quantity- of chopped, fresh, fat bacon; sprinkle pepper and salt over, and a point of garlic. Pass all through a sieve into a basin, add a quarter of its quantity of blanched fat bacon cut in squares, 1 teacupful of ham cut in dice, and 1 teacupful of fine herbs. Pill an earthen pan having a lid to it with the preparation, stand it in a saute-pan, put the lid on, pour a little water round it, put in a moderate oven, and bake for two hours. Take the terrine out of the oven when done, and a-quarter-of-an-hour afterwards put a small plate, fitting the interior diameter of the terrine, on the top with a heavy weight on it, and leave it till cold. Cut the terrine up when quite cold, put it on a dish, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Calf’s Pluck.—The pluck of an animal in butchers’ parlance consists of the liver, lights, and heart. These are usually soaked and blanched before using. Boiled Calf’s Pluck.—Select a fresh, white Calf’s Pluck and steep it in cold water for five or six hours. Drain the pluck, put it into a saucepan with more water and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and let the liquid boil. Again drain the pluck, carefully scrape it in all the folds, rinse it well, then put it back into the stewpan with the pulp of two lemons, freed of peel and pips, one onion stuck with three cloves, and |lb. of finely-chopped beef-suet. Mix a small quantity of salt with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it till smooth with some cold water, then mix it in with the above ingredients, and put the stewpan over the fire. When the contents are boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and boil the pluck for about two-hours-and-a-half, keeping it rather firm. When cooked, drain the pluck on a sieve, sponge it on a cloth, and then put it on a hot dish. Serve with some white sauce that has been finished with a small quantity of vinegar and a few chopped leaves of tarragon and pimpernel. Calf’s-Fluck Soup.—Put half of a Calf’s Pluck in a saucepan with some stock-broth and boil it; when cooked, drain and chop it. Pry a chopped onion in butter, and when nicely browned put in the Calf’s Pluck; season it, and stir over the fire till the moisture has somewhat evaporated. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a small quantity of cream, pour them in with the pluck and onion, stir them over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then move to the side; add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, then spread the mixture out on a baking-sheet and leave it till cold and firm. Divide the mixture into four equal parts, and roll them out into square thin flats. Slightly moisten the surface of one of the flats ; put some rich forcemeat into a forcer and squeeze it through in form of little balls on the flat, arranging them in straight lines lin. apart. Cover the forcemeat with another flat of paste and press round between them, using the hand first, then the back of a small round paste-cutter, thus marking the ravioles; which now cut out with a paste-cutter about ljin. in diameter. Proceed the same with the two remaining portions of paste. Poach the ravioles in boiling salted water for ten minutes. Pour 2qts. of boiling broth into a soup- tureen; drain the ravioles, put them in, and serve the soup. Boasted Calf’s Pluck.—Clean the pluck, stuff the heart with forcemeat of breadcrumbs, butter, and minced parsley, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; fix the liver and lights on to the heart with skewers, and roast it in front of a clear fire ; dredge it over occasionally with flour and baste it constantly with butter, thus making a nice brown froth all over it. Prepare a melted-butter sauce and mix 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle with it. When cooked, put the pluck on a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Calf’s Sweetbread.—See Sweetbreads. Calf’s Tongue.-—In comparison with an ox- or neat’s- tongue, the tongue of the Calf is very inferior as regards flavour; it is therefore usual to cook and serve it with tasty sauces. More frequently it is used as a garnish for Calf’s head, or minced and made up with forcemeat. The following receipts will he found of a very superior quality. Calf’s Tongue with. Tomato Sauce.—Trim and well wash a Calf’s Tongue, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and Calf—continued. scald it. Take out, drain and lard it, put it into a saucepan with two carrots and two onions, three heads of cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and sufficient rich stock to moisten. Simmer gently for four hours. Take out the tongue when done, and cut it in halves, removing the skin; put them on a dish, and serve with tomato sauce poured over. Cold Calf’s Tongue served a la Macedoine.—Put six pickled tongues into a saucepan of boiling water and boil them until tender. Take them out, skin them, put between two dishes, and let them remain with a weight on the top until cold. Bound them at the root end, cut them flat art the sides, and divide lengthwise in halves. Glaze with a paste- brush, and mask with a thin layer of half-set aspic jelly to give a relief. In the meantime prepare a macedoine with carrots and potatoes formed in the shape of balls, Brussels sprouts, flowerets of cauliflowers, green peas, sprue-asparagus or asparagus peas, and French beans cut in small diamond shapes. All of these vegetables must be blanched separately, well-seasoned, and put in little piles of symmetrical size in the centre of a dish. Arrange the halves of tongues round with the points upwards, pour round a little aspic jelly, and serve with tartar or ravigote sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Calf’s Tongue and Brains.—Put into hot water a boiled Calf’s Tongue and a cooked brain, keeping the brain as whole as possible, and make them hot. Make a brown gravy by stirring 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour over the fire until light bro.\n, and then gradually stirring in 1 pint of boiling water; season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, I saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 gill of vinegar; lay the tongue and brain on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve at once. Or serve them with a hot sauce, made by mixing with a breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise 1 saltspoonful of dry mustard, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, capers, and pickles, and 1 teaspoonful of grated onion. Stewed Calf’s Tongues with. Mushroom Sauce.—Steep the tongues in water till the blood is disgorged, then drain them, and put them in a stewpan with such vegetables for flavouring as carrots, turnips, and onions, two bay-leaves, a piece of mace, and a few cloves. Pour in sufficient water to cover; add some pieces of veal and bacon and a lump of salt. Stand the stewpan over the fire till the water com- mences to boil; then move it to the side of the fire. Skim, and keep simmering till the tongues are tender. When cooked, take the tongues out of the saucepan and skin them, cut each into three slices, giving them the shape of cutlets. Glaze them, arrange in a group on a bed of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of mushroom sauce. Calf’s Udder.—This is obtainable from the cow Calf only, and is not therefore of much culinary importance. It is generally used to give consistency to forcemeats. Forcemeat of Calf’s Udder.—Take a Calf’s Udder, clean and boil it, let it get cold, put it into a mortar, and well pound it. Pass it through a fine hair sieve and it is ready for mixing with other forcemeats. CALIFORNIAN WINES.—See American Wines. CALIPASH AND CALIPEE.—These terms are probably corruptions of the word carapace, which is the hard, domed shell covering the back of the turtle, crab, lobster, &c. In the popular acceptation the former word signifies the flesh of the turtle under the upper shell, and the latter that upon the under shell; but of these much more will be found under Turtle. CALISSON.—The name of a celebrated French sweet- meat known best at Aix-la-Ohapelle. CALLEBQGUS.—A favourite drink in Newfoundland, made by adding spirit to spruce beer. CALLOU.—A kind of palm wine manufactured by the Arabs from the flowers of the cocoa-nut palm (Cocos nucifera). It has a limpid, soft, agreeable flavour; but as it attains perfection within twenty-four hours of being made, its vinous condition is quite as evanescent, for it sours in a few hours after.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 280 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their svecial heads. CALT7SO.—The name of a favourite wine of Pied- montese production. CAMEMBERT.—A very rich cheese named after the French village in the Department of Orne, where it is chiefly made. See Cheese. CANADIAN DISHES.—These differ very little from those of other parts of the American Continent. Perhaps those of greatest local importance which differ from British cooking are the Cookies, Corn-bread Loaf, Corn- meal Muffins, Crullers, Johnny Cakes, Waffles, Sasatijs, and some others, all of which are duly treated under their specific headings. CANAPES. —This French term is applied to little dainty and tasty morsels resembling in a measure our sandwiches, and yet being totally distinct from them in their preparation, as will be understood from the following receipts. Other Canapes will be found described under various headings. Bengal Canapes.—Put 4oz. of chopped ham in a mortar and pound it, then mix with it a little more than J breakfast- cupful of thick cream. Cut a dozen small rounds of bread about Jin. in thickness, put them in a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, melt it, and fry them a pale golden brown. Drain the rounds of bread on a sheet of paper for two or three minutes, then mask each with a thick layer of the ham mixture; over that spread a thin layer of chutney, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Spread white paper over a baking-sheet, lay the toast on it, and put in a brisk oven until the cheese has browned a little; then take them out, dust a small quantity of cayenne- pepper over each, arrange them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, put a few pieces of parsley round, and serve. Bombay Canapes.—Skin and bone six anchovies, put them in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound them to a smooth paste, then pass it through a fine wire sieve into a small sauce- pan over the fire; let it get hot, then stir in quickly the beaten yolks of four eggs. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until thick. Cut some rounds of bread without any crusts; put a lump of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when the blue smoke arises put in the rounds of bread and fry them until of a pale golden colour; take them out, drain them a minute or two on a piece of paper, spread the anchovy mixture over, dust them with a small quantity of cayenne-pepper, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve hot. Canapes.—Cut some thin slices of bread, take off the crusts, and toast them an even brown. Butter lightly, and spread with any kind of potted meat or fish. Put two slices together, and cut them in long strips. They make a tasty dish for tea or supper parties. Canapes Madison.—Cut six thin slices of bread and shape them alike. Toast to a golden colour, and lay on a dish. Cover each toast with a very thin slice of lean, cooked ham ; spread a little mustard over that, then cover with a layer of garnish- ing a la Proven9ale. Dredge grated Parmesan cheese on top, and strew a little fresh breadcrumbs over all. Place them in a hot oven, and bake for ten minutes; then take them out, arrange on a hot dish covered by a folded napkin, and serve. Fig 316. Various Canapes. Canapes of Various Sorts.—Cut some slices of bread, about 2|in. across and 3in. lo.ig, and fry them very lightly in clarified Canapes—continued. butter. When cold, mask their tops with anchovy butter; arrange upon them some anchovy fillets, herring fillets, pickled tunny, smoked salmon, or some crayfish tails; intermingle these various fillets with chopped, hard-boiled egg, gherkins, or chopped parsley, or whole capers, or spread all over with caviare (see Fig. 316). Put a folded napkin on a dish and serve the Canapds on it. Tricolour Canapes.—Skin and bone six anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a fine wire sieve. Boil three eggs until hard, separate the whites and yolks, and pass them separately through the sieve. Care must be taken in preparing these ingredients not to get the colours mixed. Cut four slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and cut each slice into two squares. Melt a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the squares of bread, and fry them until a pale golden colour. Drain the pieces of bread, leave them until cold, then spread them over with the pounded anchovies. Put a strip of the hard-boiled white of egg on a piece of the fried bread, next a strip of finely-chopped gherkins or capers, and next a strip of the yolk of egg, thus making three colours on one piece of bread. Proceed in a like manner with the rest. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin over a dish, arrange the Canapes tastefully on it, putting a few sprigs of parsley here and there, and serve. CANDIED FEEL.—There are three kinds of Candied Peel used by cooks and confectioners to flavour cakes, puddings, and other sweet dishes. These are lemon, orange, and citron, or cedrat. The mode of preparation adopted for the wholesale market is very simple. The pulp is removed from the thick rinds of very soimd young fruit, which have been cut into halves; the rinds are then boiled in water until they are soft, and afterwards suspended in a strong candy syrup (cold) until they become partially transparent. The next step is to dry them either in a current of warm air or a drying-stove, at 120deg. Fahr. The same principle and process is adopted by artistic confectioners for preparing some very tasty little baskets and cups for holding fruit, cream, ices, jellies, and other confections. The following receipts depend upon the Candied Peel for their quality: Candied-Feel Pudding. —(1) Thinly slice an equal quantity of citron-, orange-, and lemon-peel. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, and put in the sliced peels. Beat the yolks of seven and the whites of two eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then pour it over the peels. Put the pudding into a brisk oven, and bake for a little more than half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Put lloz. of butter over the fire in a brass saucepan, and when it is quite hot mix with it eight eggs beaten well with lloz. of powdered white sugar; keep stirring it for seven or eight minutes, put it into a dish, and let it stand all night. The next day mix with it Jib. of candied orange-peel, lemon- peel, and citron, and 1 wineglassful of orange-flower water. Butter a pudding-dish, lay a sheet of buttered white paper at the bottom of it, put the voldron on to it, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn it out of the dish it was baked in, and serve in a silver or glass dish, garnished with pieces of candied orange-peel and citron. CANDY.—The origin of this term is evidently from the Latin Candidas, glittering white (candied sugar having that characteristic), or again it may have originated from Khand, the Sanscrit for the sugar cane. However that may be, there is only one accepted definition of the word in cookery, and that is “ boiled sugar with more or less flavouring.” The process of making Candy must not be confounded, although it often is, with crystallising sugar. For further information on this subject see Sugar- boiling. Candied Fruit or Nuts.—Boil lib. of loaf sugar in 1 break- fast-cupful of water to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). The syrup must never be stirred, and must boil quickly, not furiously. Take the prepared fruit or nuts on the point of a large needle or fine skewer, dip them into the syrup, and then lay them on a dish that has been lightly buttered or oiled ; or string them on a thread, and after dipping in the syrup suspend them by the thread. When oranges are used,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 281 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Candy—continued. divide them into sections, and dry them on a sieve, or in a warm room, or in the open air. Cherries should be stoned. Walnuts are especially nice prepared in this way. Cream Candy.— Put 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 1 teacupful of water, and 21b. of lump sugar into a saucepan and boil for twenty minutes. Before removing it from the fire, add a little vanilla extract or essence of lemon, and pour it into a flat tin dish, stirring until quite cold. It is then ready for use. Digestive Candy.—Take 1 drachm each of best powdered Turkey rhubarb and bicarbonate of soda; powdered ginger, If drachms; powdered cinnamon, 20gr. ; heavy magnesia, loz.; powdered sugar, 2oz.; mucilage of tragacanth, enough to form a lozenge mass. Divide into small squares of 18gr. or 20gr. each. Rock Candy.—This is crystallised sugar in the simplest form. Put some clarified syrup into a sugar-boiler and boil to the feather (see Sugar-boiling), and add a few drops of acetic acid or spirits of wine in order to facilitate the separa- tion of the crystals from the more aqueous portions of the syrup. Pour the syrup into moulds, and let it remain in the hot closet at from 90deg. to lOOdeg. of heat; leave it there for eight or ten days, according to the size of the crystal desired. In the process of crystallising, the impurities contained in the sugar are left behind in the water, and the sugar is rendered as nearly pure as possible. When the crystallisa- tion is complete, pour off the surplus syrup, turn the mould upside down, and let it remain until quite drained. The moulds are made of stout tin or copper, and must be considerably smaller at the bottom than at the top, and pierced with small holes round the sides in uniform rows, tier above tier, and sewn with coarse thread across the mould from side to side, after which they must be pasted up with paper, or covered with potter’s clay all over the outside, in order to effectually close the holes and prevent the syrup from running out. When quite drained, remove the paper or clay from the sides, warm the mould equally round the outside, and strike the edge of it with a sharp hard knock upon the table, when the sugar will relieve itself from the mould. Place it upon a sieve or board, and set it in the hot closet until perfectly dry. This Candy may be tinted a rose or scarlet colour by adding a little prepared carmine or cochineal to the syrup after boiling. The purer the sugar used for making the syrup the whiter the Candy will be. Rose Candy. — Boil some sugar to the ball (see Sugar- boiling), and work it with a spatula against the sides of the pan until it turns white. While still hot colour it with a little carmine or cochineal, and flavour with a few drops of attar of roses ; oil some tins, turn the Candy into them, and put into a slow stove to set. CANNELONS.—In Marseilles these are commonly purveyed in the streets. They are composed chiefly of nouille paste in the shape of small pipes about 3in. long and fin. in diameter. They are generally made by rolling Fig. 317. Plan of making Pastry Cannelons the paste out very thin, cutting into strips 3in. by 2in., and rolling up round small pieces of wood, which are removed after baking (see Fig. 317). Cannelons d la Reine. — Get some pieces of cold chicken or cold game, some mushrooms, and, if possible, truffles. Chop all up fine, and mix with German sauce reduced to stiffness; roll out some puff paste to about fin. thick, and cut into strips Cannelons—continued. about lin. wide. Dip a brush in water and moisten the edge farthest from you. Take some of the above mixture and place on the paste, in an equal roll about lin. wide. Turn the paste over, and roll it tightly; press the edges of the paste together and cut into 2in. lengths. Boll the Cannelons on the board to a cork shape, fry them in warm fat, drain, and dish on a folded napkin (see Fig. 318) or dish-paper; garnish with fried parsley, and serve; or the Cannelons may be prepared by twisting paste round a wooden or tin column, as for others, and the forcemeat pressed in. Cannelons with Cream. —Cut puff paste in strips about lin. wide, and roll it round a floured stick to form the Cannelons, and bake upon the sticks. After the Cannelons are cool the Fig. 319. Cannelons with Cream or Preserves. sticks can be slipped out, and the centres filled with whipped cream, or any preserve or jelly can be used to fill them (see Fig. 319). They are served upon a folded napkin. Cannelons Garnished with Fruit Jelly or Jam.—Prepare Jib. of puff paste, giving it ten rolls, then roll it out to about 18in. square, and cut into strips about jin. in width. Arrange the paste round two dozen round sticks, about Gin. long and jin. in diameter, having them a little thinner at one end. The paste when wrapped round the sticks will have the appearance of cork-screws. When all are done, put them on a slightly damped baking-sheet, keeping them about 2in. apart, dust over with egg, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out when done, brush over with egg, dust with caster sugar, and glaze in the oven or with a salamander; take them out, remove the sticks, fill them with apple or other fruit jelly, or jam, and serve. Cannelons with Preserves.—For making these, little wooden or tin columns 3in. long and very slightly tapering are required. Boll out thin, and in a rather long shape, lib. of puff paste, then cut some strips of this, fin. by 6in., and pointed at one end. Butter ten of the columns, twist the paste round them spirally, beginning with the smallest end— that is to say, forming with the paste circles a cheval, one upon the other; the paste must be floured a little. End the spiral at lin. from the thick end of the column, slightly moistening the paste. Lay them on a baking-sheet a short distance from each other, brush with egg, and bake in a slow oven. When nearly done, sprinkle some caster sugar over them, and finish cooking. When nearly cold, fill them with either currant, quince, apple, or apricot jelly, jam, or mar- malade, or with clotted flavoured sweet cream, or with plain cream and preserve. These Cannelons form the most delicious pieces of light sweet pastry that can be imagined. If the paste is too puffy they are not so good.282 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. CANNING.—A mode of preserving meats, fruits, and vegetables, mucb practised in America and Canada, chiefly for exportation. tSee Food-preserving. CANVAS-BACK DUCK—Unfortunately, this, the most delicious of all water-fowl, is only met with in this country as an importation. In some parts of North America Canvas-Back Ducks are very plentiful, especially along the coasts of Chesapeake and Delaware Bays. The bird is omithologically known as Aythya vallisneria, because of its exceeding partiality for the vallisneria plant, or wild celery. To its free consumption of this aromatic food it owes much of its epicurean virtue. It is a large bird, standing some 20in. high, and extending something more than that from tip to tip of wing. The plumage is very striking, being diversified with black, white, chestnut-brown, and slate-colour. The back of the male is ashy-white crossed by broken zigzag lines, from which peculiarity it obtains its popular name. The best ducks are those which are heavy in proportion to their size, and have full bright eyes and soft, pliable feet. They deteriorate with long keeping, and must not be drawn until just before using them, and should not be washed. The more quickly they are cooked, the finer flavoured they will be; and the bot dish for serving and hot plates should always be ready before the ducks are done. The ducks should never be overdone. When served, the breast only is carved. Stick the fork straight and firmly into the middle of the breast-bone. Commence from the neck down to the back, straight to the backbone, and around the back; then from the point of starting, around the collar-bone. Cut the joint off the wing. Commence cutting again from the point of starting; carefully and gently carving off the whole breast so that no meat l-emains. Proceed precisely the same with the other side. When finished, there will remain only the carcase. Broiled Canvas-Back Ducks.—(1) Take two fine, fat Canvas- Back Ducks; pick, singe, draw, and wipe them thoroughly. Split them through the back without detaching the pieces, lay on a dish to season with 1 pinch of salt, £ pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil. Boll them well in it, and put them to broil for seven minutes on each side. Dress them on a hot dish, spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butler, decorate with a little watercress, and serve. (2) Pluck, singe, and wipe the duck; split it down the back, and remove the intestines; put it between the bars of a buttered double gridiron, and broil it over a hot fire, leaving the inside turned to the fire for twelve minutes; then turn the skin to the fire just long enough to brown it; season the duck with salt and pepper, and serve it at once. The flavour of the birds is best preserved by cooking them quickly by an intense fire, and serving them on very hot plates. The usual garnishes are red-currant jelly, fried hominy, or celery. Sometimes a mayonnaise dressing is served with the celery. Canvas-Back Duck—continued. Boasted Canvas-Back Ducks.—(1) Procure two fine, fat Canvas-Back Ducks, pick, singe, draw well, and wipe them; throw a light pinch of salt inside, run in the head from the end of the neck to the back, truss them, and place in a roasting-pan. Sprinkle over a little salt, put them in a brisk oven, and cook for eighteen minutes; arrange on a very hot dish, untruss, throw 2 table-spoonfuls of white broth into each duck, and serve with six slices of fried hominy for garnish, and currant jelly on a dish. (2) Pick, singe, and draw two or three Canvas-Back Ducks, wipe them well both inside and out, but without washing them. Do not stuff them, but simply pepper-and-salt them well all over, both inside and out. Have ready a hot baking-pan, put in the ducks, moisten with a little water and fat from the stockpot, or a little sweet lard slightly salted. Place the ducks at once into a hot oven and roast for from twenty to thirty minutes, taking care that they are not overdone. If they are cooked five minutes too long’, they are said to be unfit for the table. Put them on a hot dish, pour round the liquor or serve it in a sauceboat, and serve with fried potato cakes or croquettes, or fried hominy cakes for garnish. A bunch of watercress may also be used for garnish if desired. (3) Dress a Canvas-Back Duck, put it before a very hot fire, and quickly brown it; let it cook twenty minutes, then season with salt and pepper, and serve it hot, with celery and red-currant jelly. (4) Pluck, singe, and draw the duck, wipe it on a wet towel, truss the head under the wing, put the bird in a dripping-pan in a very hot oven, and bake it for half-an- hour. Have ready a lighted chafing-dish; when the duck is done, transfer it quickly to the chafing-dish, season it with salt and pepper, pour over it the gravy which it has yielded in baking, and serve it at once. (5) Pluck, singe, and draw a Canvas-Back Duck ; truss it, wrap it round with paper, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting continually with gravy. In the meantime fry six sliced yams (sweet potatoes) to a light colour, dust them over with salt and pepper, arrange on a dish, put the bird on them, and add 1 winoglassful of port wine to the gravy; boil up once, and pour round. CAPE BRANDY—A spirit distilled from grapes and aromatic herbs and spices in the Cape Colony. It is much used for fortifying inferior European wines, and cheap champagnes. CAPERCAILZIE. — This bird (Tetrao urogallus) sometimes also called Capercailie, Wood-grouse, or Cock of the Woods, is not often met with, although it is occa- sionally shot on the Scottish moors and highlands. The male is very handsomely plumaged, being variegated with black, brown and white, and dark green over the chest. Above the eyes are scarlet patches of naked skin; these serve to distinguish it from all others, especially when taken in conjunction with the appearance of the feet, which are freely feathered down to the tips of the toes. The flesh is considered exceedingly delicate and fine- flavoured, and, as the Capercailzie is a large bird, fre- quently weighing as much as 141b. or 151b., it is usually treated, cooked, dressed, and carved the same as a turkey. At one time the Capercailzie was commoner in the north of Great Britain than partridges or pheasants are in the south; but whether from disease, incontinent slaughter, or some other cause, it has become comparatively scarce. CAPERS (Fr. Capres; Ger. Kapern; Ital. Capriole ; Sp. Cabriolas).—The plant is cultivated in Spain, Italy, South of France, and Barbary, from which countries chiefly Capers are imported into Great Britain; although, accord- ing to the opinions of some of our great horticultural authorities, there is no reason why Capers should not be cultivated equally successfidly in this country. The plants are addicted to sheltered spots, but are not dainty as to soil, growing something like our blackberry brambles, and draw in ample nourishment for their growth from the interstices of old brick and stone walls. This peculiarity of growing from walls is mentioned in ancient history, the plant being therein spoken of as “hyssop.”283 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Capers—continued. Capers as imported are the flower-buds of Capparis spinosa (Pig. 321), picked daily as soon as they are ready, and thrown into casks of strong vinegar. Prom these stores they are sorted into sizes by sifting through different meshed copper-wire sieves. The vinegar, acting upon the copper wire, gives to the pickle its emerald green, which renders the Caper at all times inclined to he deleterious. After sorting, the buds are classified under five headings: thus, nonpareils, capuchins, capotes, seconds, and thirds, and of all these the nonpareils are best. Fig. 321. Caper-plant. The hud is picked long before the flower is formed ready for blooming, and the further from this the more pungent it is as a condiment. The flower when fully formed is large, white or puce, and very elegant. A very good imitation of pickled Capers can be pro- duced by gathering the young green seeds, or shoots, of the nasturtium (Indian cress), and after soaking them in a weak brine, bottling them with vinegar in the usual way. The following is a very good receipt for preparing mock Capers, either from nasturtium-seeds or green peas: Lay them out on a paper in the sun for an hour or two, then put them into a bowl, and cover with a not very strong brine. Leave them in this for about three days, then drain off the brine, and spread them out in the sun again for an hour or two to partly dry. Pack them in jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and fill up so as to cover them with boiling white wine vinegar. Cork or tie down before the vinegar is cold, and these “Capers” will be ready for use in a few days’ time. Sometimes a small piece of alum is dropped into the bottle before adding the vinegar. Capers are used only for garnishing and making sauces, of which latter the following may be considered the best forms for their preparation. Caper Sauce.—(1) Put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of flour and 2oz. of butter, hold it over a fire and stir until the flour is brown ; add 1 pint of good stock, mix it in with the flour, and season with a little salt, pepper, and Worcester sauce ; when boiling, add 2 table-spoonfuls of Capers, and serve in a tureen. (2) Put into a saucepan 1 pint of clear broth or water and 1 table-spoonful of Capers. Let them simmer for ten rninui es, then mash the Capers by pressing them against the sides of the saucepan with a wooden spoon. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of flour with a little cold water, and stir it in with the Capers whilst boiling ; put loz. of butter in with it, and when the butter is melted add 1 teaspoonful of the vinegar the Capers were bottled in, and serve very hot. Capers—continued. (3) Soyer recommends this sauce to be made by putting 12 table-spoonfuls of butter sauce (melted buttei’) in a saucepan, and when just on the point of boiling add 3 table-spoonfuls of Capers and 2oz. more of fresh butter; stir until the butter is dissolved, and add a little salt and pepper. It is then ready for use. (4) Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of butter in a saucepan ; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and when it begins to bubble stir slowly iu 1 teacupful of boiling water. Beat in 1 teaspoonful of cold butter when the sauce is taken from the lire, and add 1 table- spoonful of Capers and vinegar, and 1 pinch of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. (5) Put 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually 1 pint of clear broth, and continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped Capers, boil for two minutes, then move the sauce off the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg with 1 teaspoonful of water, stir it quickly into the sauce, season to taste with salt, and serve. (6) Boil some Capers (or imitation) in a good brown gravy (about 1 table-spoonful of Capers to 1 pint of gravy) ; when they are soft, mash them against the sides of the saucepan with a spoon, stir in 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, which you have previously mixed with a little cold water, and boil till thick, stirring all the time; then add 1 oz. of butter, and, when melted, put in 1 teaspoonful of the vinegar that the Capers were in. It is then ready for use. (7) For Fish.—Make 1 pint of melted butter, into which put a small piece of glaze, and when the sauce is ready for serving stir into it 2 table-spoonfuls of choice Capers, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. (8) For Boiled Mutton.—Make 1 pint of melted butter, and stir into it 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, 2 table- spoonfuls of large Capers, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. CAFE WINES.—Although, the western provinces of the Cape Colony are famous for the production of grapes, it is a remarkable fact that the wines manufactured from them are of an exceedingly inferior character; so much so, that they have provided a term of contempt for all wines that are hot, weak-flavoured, or insipid. “Like Cape sherry,” is a by-word in the trade, and not by any means undeservedly. Professor Simmonds writes of them : “ The making of the wine is on the whole very primitive, in no way corresponding with the excellence of the grape. The Colonial Government has, however, within the last two or three years, introduced better systems of wine-making, under experienced European authorities. Hitherto the Cape Wines have been mixed with so much brandy (height- ened with capsicum) that they cease to be wines, and become liqueurs. The colour is often made darker (to give the idea of strength and make it aiipear older) by means of burnt sugar; but the immature character of the wine is not done away with by these expedients. No attention is paid at all to the difference between table- wines and sweet wines. A considerable portion of the wine- drinking community wants sweet-tasting wine, and this compels the merchant to make dry wines sweet, which is generally done by sugar, or by the addition of extract wines. It is the manipulation of the wine which is to be blamed for the inferior quality of the Cape Wines.” Nevertheless, as the wines are cheap and sufficiently pure for making some kinds of sauces or stews, the cook need not be afraid to use them. CAPILLAIRE.—This syrup or liqueur is seldom used by itself, but generally for the purpose of giving a body to others. The name is derived from capilla, a hair, a prominent ingredient of it used at one time being the fronds of the maidenhair fern. The virtues supposed to be imparted by this herbal addition appear to have held very little credit amongst advanced liqueurists, hence the fern is now generally omitted, and the syrup compounded of sugar, clarified with white of egg, and flavoured with either orange-flower water, rose-water, or curaijoa. The284 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Capillaire—continued. following receipts give a variety of modes of preparing it with and without the fern. (1) Boil ^lb. of maidenhair fern in 5 pints of boiling water, and leave to infuse near a fire for twenty-four hours. Press out and filter the liquid; add 4 fluid ounces of orange-flower water, and dissolve in it from 151b. to 201b. of loaf sugar, according to the consistency the syrup is required to maintain. (2) Boil 91b. of loaf sugar in 5 pints of orange-flower water. When the syrup is quite clear, strain it through flannel; dissolve 2 drachms of tartaric acid in ^ pint of strong orange- flower water and mix with the syrup when it is cold; add also i tumblerful of good Rhine wine. (3) Chop in small pieces a large bunch of maidenhair fern, place them in a pan with boiling water, and put a cover on. In a few minutes’ time add to the infusion 4.Ub. of broken loaf sugar, and clarify with the whites of four eggs. Boil the syrup to the pearl (see Sugar-boiling), then pour it through a strainer. When it is cool, add a little orange-flower water and bottle close. (4) Boil lib. of loaf sugar into a syrup of 24deg. strength (see Sugar-boiling). Dissolve 2oz. of picked gum arabic in 2oz. of hot water; infuse Joz. of chopped maidenhair fern in boiling water for one hour, and then strain. Mix the gum and the infusion of chopped fern with the syrup when it is cold. Get some pint bottles and fill them with the syrup, and stand the bottles in cold water for a few minutes until they are quite cold ; dip the nozzles in bottle-wax, and keep them stacked in a reclining position in the cellar until wanted. (5) Put 51b. of caster sugar into a stewpan with lqt. of water, adding two well-beaten eggs as well as their shells ; put the pan on the fire and boil for about twenty minutes, skim thoroughly, pass the liquid through a jelly-bag, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water to flavour. (6) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, lib. of sugar, and the shell and white of one egg into a thick saucepan on the stove, keep stirring till the white of egg hardens and the sugar is melted, let it then boil for five minutes, let it cool very slightly, and strain. When quite cold, add a wineglassful of curaijoa to it and bottle. About 2 teaspoonfuls of this in a glass of cold water make a good “ eau sucrA” (7) Put loz. of maidenhair fern into an enamelled pan, pour over it §gall. of boiling water, set the pan on some warm ashes, and let the fern infuse for twelve hours. Strain it off; it will then be a strong infusion of Capillaire. Dissolve in this infusion 41b. of sugar, put it into a preserving-pan, place over the fire, and clarify with white of egg. Let the syrup continue to get hot, and when it is at the pearl degree (see Sugar-boiling) put coarsely-chopped, fresh maidenhair fern into a pan and pour the boiling syrup over it. Put a cover over the pan, and let it stand till the syrup is cold. Then, if other flavouring be desired, is the time to add it. Put the syrup into bottles, and cork them well so that no air can possibly get at it. CAPILOTADE.—This is literally the French term for a hash or ragout, consisting usually of giblets and pieces of cold meat or poultry. See Fowls, Plovers, &c. Italian Capilotade.—Cut a cold roasted bird in small pieces; cut in slices an equal quantity of carrots and onions, and chop some mushrooms. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, make it hot, then put in the vegetables; dredge a small quantity of flour over and fry them until beginning to brown, then pour in £ pint of white wine, and boil very gently for fifteen minutes. Put in the pieces of bird, leave them until hot, then take them out and lay them on a hot dish. Mix i teacupful of oil with the gravy, stir it well at the side of the fire for a minute or two without letting it boil again, then pour it over the meat, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. CAPONS (Fr. Cliapons ; Ger. Kapanns; Hal. Cappone). —These are young male fowls which have been castrated, secluded, and fatted in order to improve the delicacy and flavour of their flesh. They have their female counterpart in the young hen from which the oviducts have been removed, and which are known upon the Continent as poulardes. In either case the superiority over the ordinary fowl is so marked as to demand special culinary treatment, preference being given by Continental cooks to the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Capons—continued. poularde for flavour, although the Capon is generally by far the larger bird. The ordinary fowl, or chicken, is not considered by them of sufficient importance to be treated separately, being more often consigned to the stockpot than the spit. A very important feature about the Capon and poularde is that in consequence of their treatment they grow much larger and fatten more readily than do ordinary fowls, which, added to their superior flavour, renders them not only worthy of Shakespeare’s Justice, “ in fair round belly, with good Capon lin’d,” but fit in every way to set before a king, especially during September and October. The instructions for preparing Capons for cooking are as follow: For Cleaning and Trussing.—Pluck all the feathers off and singe a Capon, chop off the head close to the back, remove the crop, and loosen the liver and other inside parts at the breast end. Cut round the vent, draw it clean, flatten the breast-bone with a cutlet-bat, cut off the toe-nails, and tuck the feet down close to the legs. For Boiling.—Put the forefinger through the inside under the skin of the legs, raise it, make holes in them, and push the logs into them. Pass a skewer into the first joint of the pinion, bringing the middle of the leg close to it; push the skewer through the middle of the leg into the body, and repeat this operation on the other side. Place the liver and gizzard in the pinions, turn the ends or points on the back, and fasten the legs into position by tying them with string. For Roasting.—Cut off the first joint of the pinions, beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin or cutlet-bat, push a skewer through the pinion, bringing the middle of the legs close. Pass a skewer through the legs, body, and remaining pinion, twist the neck, and secure the head on the skewer with the bill pointing forwards ; pass another skewer through the sidesman, and fasten the legs close on either side of the sidesman. Run a skewer through all, and the Capon is ready for cooking. For roasting, braising, or baking tbe breast of the bird should be covered with a bard of bacon-fat tied round it (see Fig. 322), which must be removed before the bird is finished cooking, so that the skin under it may brown. They are usually served in pairs and admit of very artistic arrangement and garnishing. For mode of Carving, see under that heading. Boiled Barded Capon with Mushrooms.—Take a young Capon, singe and draw it, filling its inside with bread stuffing or veal forcemeat, with the stems of some mushrooms finely chopped. Put a large slice of fat bacon over the breast, score it a little, and tie it on (see Fig. 322). Put it into a stewpan with sufficient unskimmed broth to cover it, adding some spices and aromatics to flavour. Put the pan on a slow fire, and boil for from fifty to sixty minutes. When the Capon is cooked, remove it from the pan, skim off the fat from the stock, and make a little white sauce, reduced with the liquor in which a few mushrooms have been boiled, adding the yolks of two eggs to thicken it. When ready to serve, remove the string and bacon, put it on a dish, pour over the sauce, and garnish with the cooked mushrooms. Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads.285 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfec., referred to, see under their special heads. Capons—continued. Boiled Capon (Pakistan Style).—(1) Take a large fat Capon, draw it, being careful not to remove the fat from the rump. Next peel 21b. of good, but not too large, truffles, and when wanted boil them in a little Madeira, keeping the pan covered while boiling. Take the trimmings of the truffles and pound them with an equal amount of breadcrumb, then add half a raw goose fat liver (foie gras), the whites of two eggs, and a few table-spoonfuls of scraped fat bacon, season it to taste, and rub through a sieve. Put the stuffing into the Capon, making it bulge. Truss the Capon with its legs forced under the skin, rub it well over with lemon, and tie over it thin slices of bacon-fat. Then put it into a stewpan with some slices of vegetables and bacon, pour in sufficient good white broth to cover, and place over all a piece of buttered paper and boil gently. When done, take it out, drain, and take off the string. Then take an oblong dish, and put a layer of poached forcemeat over it, put the Capon on it, and garnish both sides with cooked, white cocks’ combs. Heap the truffles at each end of the dish. It may be decorated with garnished skewers (see Attelettes) or not as desired. Prepare some veloute sauce with the Capon stock, and serve in a sauceboat. (2) Served Cold.—Take two good Capons, draw, and singe them, then cut up the leg-bones at the joint; partly disengage the meat of the log-bone, and cut it half the length; then force the legs into the hollow. Make a little raw quenelle forcemeat, and fill the crops with it. Then truss them neatly, leaving the legs quite straight. Hub them well over with lemon, and put slices of bacon-fat over them. Place in a stewpan with sufficient white broth and white wine to cover them, put on the cover of the pan, and place it on a moderate fire to boil. When they are done, take them out, drain, wrap up in a slightly damp cloth, and let them cool. Then make a garnish of some button mushrooms, Fig. 323. Boiled Capons Garnished with Cocks’ Combs and Mushrooms. masked with a white chaudfroid sauce, round truffles glazed with a paste-brush dipped in half-set jelly, and some cocks’ comhs. Then take an oblong dish, and on it fix a pain-vert of an oval shape, but not too thick, having in its centre a support of wood masked with fat. When the Capons are cold, take off the string, and put them on the pain-vert, letting them lean slightly against the wooden support. Put the truffles on both sides of the support, and the cocks’ combs round them. Then take some aspic jelly, cut it into fancy shaped croutons, and edge the centre of the dish with them, and put the button mushrooms round the breast of the Capons (see Pig. 323). Boiled Capons with Rice.—Truss and cut the leg-bones short and thrust into the sides of the Capons. Then rub the birds over with lemon, wrap them up in layers of bacon, and boil in some good white stock. When done, remove the bacon, drain the Capons, and place them on a dish leaning against a sloping support fixed on the dish. Decorate the support with a crown cut out of bread or paste, and fill the hollow of the crown with cocks’ combs and mushrooms. Then decorate the centre of the dish with a small circle of moulded rice, and arrange a garland of whole truffles at each end of the dish. Pill the space under and between the Capons with a mixture of quenelles, cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms, covered with a little supreme sauce reduced with the stock of the Capons. Put the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat, and send to table. Boiled Capon with Rice a la Provenpale.—Prepare a Capon for boiling, covering it with slices of fat bacon; put it into a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover it, adding a few Capons—continued. peppercorns and cloves. Place the lid on the pan, and boil over a moderate fire for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When done, remove the pan from the fire. About twenty minutes before wanted, put 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onions into a stewpan, and fry with a large tomato (the seeds taken out) chopped fine and mixed with the onion. Add to these sufficient of tbe strained stock and topping of the Capon to three times their height, then add a pinch of saffron and a bunch of parsley. Put in the quantity of rice required, cover over the pan, and boil for forty minutes, when the rice should be firm and well cooked; add a little grated nutmeg, and spread it on a dish. Then take the Capon out of the pan, drain it, put it on the rice, and serve. Boiled Capon with. Rock-salt.—Take a fat and tender young Capon, draw, singe, and truss it, putting a piece of butter in its inside, and rub it well all over with lemon. Next take a stewpan with sufficient water to cover the Capon, and add a handful of rock-salt and a bunch of parsley. Set it to boil, and when boiling put the Capon into it, cover over the pan, put a weight on the top, and remove it to the side of the fire, but near enough for the Capon to boil fast for an-hour-and-a- quarter. When done, remove it from the pan, take off the string, and place it on a dish and garnish with halves of a lemon and a bouquet of parsley-leaves. Put a puree of celery or turnips on a separate dish and some good gravy in a sauceboat, and serve. Braised Capon.—Take a young Capon, draw and truss it, and put it into a braising-pan with lib. of fat bacon cut into small pieces round it; add 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 pint of veal broth. Put the cover on the pan, and place it on a brisk fire so as to give the Capon a nice colour all over. Then remove it to a moderate fire, and put some hot coals or embers on the top and braise the Capon for an hour. When done, drain, salt, and dish it up. Skim off the fat from the liquor, add £ pint of good stock, reduce it to half glaze, strain, and pour over the Capon. Capons may be stuffed with truffles, chestnuts, sausages, olives, or plain veal stuffing. Braised Capons a la Pinanciere.—Take two Capons, pluck, singe, and draw them, remove the forked part of the breast- bone, fill the crop skin with butter seasoned with salt and pepper, and truss them the same way as if for roasting. Lard the breast with strips of bacon-fat, and tie some slices of fat bacon over the remainder of the Capons, viz., the parts not larded. Put them into a braising-pan with just enough good stock to come above the pinions, then lay a round of buttered paper over the Capons, cover over the pan, and let them simmer for an hour. Remove the paper and glaze the parts that are larded. Then make a ragout of foie gras cut in scallops, mushrooms, and some small chicken quenelles mixed in financifere sauce, and put it on a dish round a block of fried bread, made by cutting the crumb of bread in the shape of a block, Sin. in height, Cin. square at the base, and 3jin. square at the top ; fry this in some boiling fat, let it drain, and it is then ready for use. It can be fixed to the dish with a little paste made of egg and flour. Arrange the Capons with their crops downwards, one on each side of the bread towards the ends of the dish, and put two geese’s fat livers (foies gras) studded with small truffles between them on the other two sides of the bread; put a crayfish on each side of the geese’s fat livers and a cock’s comb on the top. Put a larded sweet- bread on the top of the bread support; then garnish three silver skewers (see Attelettes) with cocks’ combs, crayfish, and mushrooms in the order given, and thrust them into the Capons and sweetbreads. Put some financi&re sauce in a sauceboat, and serve. Braised Capons a la Godard.—Prepare and cook two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Pinanciere, but do not lard the breasts. Then make a ragout of cocks’ comhs, truffles, and mushrooms moistened with sauce a la Godard. Prepare a dish with a bread support and croutons of fried bread round the edge; pour in the ragout, and garnish with cocks’ combs, truffles, some larded sweetbreads, and two large quenelles, orna- mented with truffles and tongues, in the following order : A larded sweetbread on each of the sides and one on the top of the bread, and a quenelle on top of the two sweetbreads, put that on the dish by the side of the bread; place a truffle on the top of each quenelle, and one on each side of the sweet- breads, leaving a little space between, and a cock’s comb in I the space left between the sweetbreads and truffles, and one286 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Vtensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Capons—continued. at the base of each Capon. Then take a silver skewer (see Attelettes) and put two cocks’ combs and a truffle on it, and thrust it into the bread support between the legs of the Fig. 324. Braised Capons a la Godard. Capons (see Fig. 324). Some sauce a la Godard must be served separately in a sauceboat. Braised Capon a la Neapolitaine. — Bemove the breast and thigh-bones and stuff the carcase with a mixture of chicken quenelle forcemeat, cooked goose fat liver (foie gras), and truffles, cut into small squares. Then truss it, lard it with bacon-fat, and braise it in a good stock. Care must be taken not to over do it. About fifteen minutes before it is required for use, take it out of the pot, drain, rub it, and mask the breast with a layer of white forcemeat, decorate with truffles, and set it in the entrance of the oven to poach for a few minutes. Place the Capon on a layer of fried bread without crusts, arranged on a large dish, and put round it a rich garnish made with truffles, cocks’ combs, pistachio-kernels, and macaroni cut short and seasoned (see Fig. 325). The kernels and cocks’ combs should be slightly flavoured with a veloute sauce, reduced with mushroom liquor, and the truffles Fig. 325. Braised Capon 1 la Neapolitaine. glazed with a paste-brush. Veloute sauce reduced with mush- room liquor, or Spanish sauce reduced with a little tomato ketchup, should be served with the Capon in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with. Quenelles and Truffles.—Prepare and braise two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, without larding them. Then make a ragout with cocks’ combs, truffles, mushrooms, and chicken quenelles, moistened witli supreme sauce. Put this ragout on the dish and place the Capons with their crops upwards against a pillar of fried bread (as previously described). Then garnish as follows: Put two large decorated quenelles in the spaces left between the Capons, that is against the side of the block of bread, and put a truffle on each and one on each side of them. Then put a smaller decorated quenelle at the base of each Capon with a cock’s comb on each side of it, and, lastly, put a large quenelle on the top of the bread. Some supreme sauce should be served in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with Rice.—Prepare two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, but do not lard the breasts. Then take lOoz. of rice, wash it, and cook it in some chicken broth; when it is done, season and strain Capons—continued. into it a little of the liquor the Capons have been cooked in. Mix well together. Then put a layer of the rice on to a dish, put the Capons on it, and serve. Skim the gravy, strain it, and serve in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with Rock-Salt. — Take two Capons and prepare them as for Braised Capons with Bice, then put them in a braising-pan with lj pints of chicken broth. When done, drain them, remove the fat from the stock, strain it, and add half its quantity of rich veal broth, such as blond de veau. Beduce both of these together, then put the Capons on a dish, pour a little of the gravy over them, and dust them with rock-salt. The remainder of the gravy should be served separately in a sauceboat. Braised Capons with Stuffed Cocks’ Combs and Supreme S?„uce.—Take two Capons and prepare them as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, covering them with buttered paper. Boast them before a good clear fire, and when they are done remove the paper, put them on a dish, and pour over some supreme sauce. Then garnish them with some cocks’ combs prepared as follows : Cut some cocks’ combs open, but do not quite sever them, put in a little chicken forcemeat about the size of a small nut, and fold them over to enclose it, then dip them in frying batter and fry in hot fat until of a light golden colour, drain, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Put some supreme sauce in a boat, and serve. Braised Capons with Sweetbreads and Truffles.—Prepare and truss two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere. Then make a ragout of chicken quenelles and cut mushrooms mixed in sauce a la regence. When the Capons are done, drain and put them on a dish, and lean them against a block of fried bread, with the crops downwards. Then put one sweetbread below each Capon, one on the top of tho bread, and one in each space left between the Capons. Put a crayfish on each side of the sweetbreads, except the sweetbread on the top of the bread, and a truffle on each crayfish. Serve with some sauce a la regence in a boat. Braised Capon of Toulouse a la Chipolata. - Choose a fino young Capon, draw and singe it, and truss as if for boiling. Then peel a lemon and cut it into slices, lay them on the Capon, and support them with thin layers of bacon-fat. Tie them up, and put the Capon into a stewpan spread with vegetables and trimmings of fat.' Let it cook for a few minutes, and add lOoz. of pickled pork. Then put in suffi- cient good broth and white wine to half the height of the Capon. Boil it up, and put the pan on a moderate fire, so that the Capon will braise slowly. It will require to be turned several times, and will take about an-hour-and-a-quarter to cook. When done, remove the pan from the fire, and twenty minutes before serving put twenty small chipolata sausages, or one large common sausago (not too thick), into the pan. Chipolata sausages are made of poultry-meat, bacon, and bread-pulp. When ready take out the Capon, strain the cooking-stock through a sieve, remove the fat and reduce it to half-glaze, adding a few table-spoonfuls of good brown sauce and two or three dozen fresh mushrooms. When it is sufficiently reduced, add the sausages, the pork cut into squares, twenty-four chestnuts, and the same of small glazed onions. Place the Capon on a dish, garnish with the onions, sausages, &c., and serve with the sauce. Capon Pie.—Separate the flesh from the bones of a cold roasted Capon, and cut it into slices with the exception of the thighs and pinions, which should be left whole. Peel and boil about £lb. of chestnuts, finely chop in equal quantities some thyme, sweet marjoram, and pennyroyal; line a pasty-pan with paste, put in the thighs and pinions, and strew them over with minced onions ; next put in the flesh of the bird with four sweetbreads and half-a-dozen oysters cut in halves, season them with the minced herbs, salt, cloves, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of mace ; cover with the chestnuts, and put a few small pieces of butter over them. Close the pan, and bake the pasty in a brisk oven. Meanwhile prepare a sauce with gravy, stock, drawn butter, two or three boned and filleted anchovies, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When cooked, garnish the pasty with slices of lemon, pour the sauce over, and serve. Capon Soup (Spanish Style).—Put a piece of beef weighing about 21b. into a large saucepan or stockpot, and add about287 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Capons—continued. ilb. of scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, a chicken, a partridge, and a few slices of blanched ham. Pour in a little less than 2 pints of beef-stock, reduce to a light-coloured glaze, then add about 8 pints of stock, three each of carrots, turnips and onions, six leeks tied up in a bundle, two heads of celery, about a quarter of a blanched cabbage tied up in a bunch, a clove of garlic, four cloves, and mace and pepper to taste. Boil slowly for about five hours. Cut into small cubes or squares about two dozen young carrots and turnips, half the quantity of leeks, and the white parts of three heads of celery; blanch them and cook them in stock. Cover a dressed Capon with slices of bacon-fat, and braiso it in a pot with mirepoix sauce, cooking at the same time half-a-dozen or so small sausages. Take out the Capon and sausages, add the liquor to the broth in the saucepan, skim well, and reduce it. Cut the Capon into four parts, and then again into pieces, and remove the skins from the sausages, cutting them lengthwise into halves. Put them all into a tureen, together with the cooked vegetables, strain the soup over, and serve. Roasted Capons. — Select two fine fat Capons, truss, and pre- pare them for roasting. Have a good clear fire, put the birds on a spit or under a jack, and roast them. When quito done remove them from the fire, put them on a dish, and garnish Fig. 326. Boasted Capons with Watercress. with watercress (see Fig. 326). Some good meat gravy should be served with them in a sauceboat, and the birds look much handsomer if decorated eacli with an attelette through its breast. Roasted Capons a la Turque. — Select two plump young Capons ; pluck and draw them, and wash thoroughly inside and out with warm water, then cover them with warm water and leave them for half-an-hour. Boil sufficient rico to stuff the birds with in well-seasoned stock. Dry the birds, stuff them with the rice, truss them, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and wrap them in sheets of white paper. Fix the birds on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. In about an hour’s time the birds should be cooked ; remove the paper and bacon, untruss them, put on a hot dish, pour a veloutc sauce over them, and serve. Roasted Capons with Nouilles.—Prepare two Capons as for Braised Capons a la Financiere, covering over the breasts with slices of bacon-fat instead of larding them. Wrap brown paper round the Capons, and roast them before a good fire. When they are done, remove them from the spit, and take off the bacon. Moisten some nouilles with German sauce, and then add grated Parmesan cheese and chicken glaze. Put the nouilles on a dish to 2in. in thick- ness, place the Capons on them, and serve with German sauce. Stewed Capon a la Francaise.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Capon, wipe it well both inside and out, rub it well with lemon, truss it, tie slices of bacon-fat over it, put it into a saucepan with an onion cut in slices, pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of rich stock or gravy, and stew gently on the side of the fire until the bird is done. Put it on a dish, and serve. Stewed Capon a la Regence. — Prepare a Capon, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes. Take it out, lard it, put it into a saucepan, and add a turnip, onion, and carrot, cut in slices, a few button mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over a tumblerful of Madeira wine and a little rich stock, set the saucepan on the side of Capons—continued. the fire, and simmer gently until the Capon is cooked. Put a ragout of vegetables on a dish, place the Capon on it, and serve. Stewed Capon in Turkish Style.—Put a small pinch of saffron into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil it. Chop up two onior.s, put them into a frying-pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of oil or melted butter and fry them, adding a little of the saffron-water and a finely-minced clove of garlic. When the onions are nearly done, put in a Capon cut up in slices or pieces, pour in 1 pint of broth, or sufficient to cover the pieces of Capon, and cook until done. Put a border of boiled rice round a dish, place the Capon in the centre, pour the strained liquor over, and serve with a garnish of quarters of hard-boiled eggs. CAPRI.—The name given to very excellent red and white wines produced in the Island of Capri, situated in the Bay of Naples. See Italian Wines. CAPSICUMS.—These are perhaps better known as Chillies, or Peppers, green and red, all of which belong to the same family {Capsicum), although differing somewhat in shape and colour. The manufacturers of Cayenne Pepper import largely for their purpose the fruit of Capsicum annuum, which reaches them in the shape of large withered, broken, dark-red pods, from which the moisture has been completely dried. They are sent in this state from the East Indies ; but the gardener’s efforts to cultivate them in this country have generally proved successful. C. annuum grows to the height of 2ft., with long hardy stems, supporting long, narrow, dark green leaves, and bearing white flowers in June or July, the latter giving place to long red pods containing hard seeds. There are several varieties, of which the following are the more important: Cherry Pepper {C. cerasiforme), bearing cherry-shaped fruit; Bell Pepper (C. grossum), bearing fruit shaped something like a conical bell; Bird Pepper (0. baccatum), yielding a very small fruit, which is duly gathered when ripe, dried in the sun, and then pounded and mixed with salt, and sold as an inferior sort of Fig. 327. Long and Round Capsicums cayenne. Fig. 327 shows both long and round Capsicums, the shapes of which are produced by both red and yellow varieties. The heat and aromatic properties of these Peppers are due to the active principle, an alkaloid termed capsicine. Cooks generally prefer to use the fresh fruit, or the ground pepper, but such excellent preparations, containing capsicine in such a highly concentrated form, have been made for us by modern manufacturing chemists that, as soon as they are sufficiently well-known they are certain to be universally adopted, especially as the Red Pepper of commerce is subject to serious adul- terations such as those of Venetian red, turmeric, ver- milion, and earths. See Adulterations. Capsicum Butter.—Put about Joz. of cayenne popper in a mortar and pound it, mixing in gradually Rb. of butter, and continue the pounding till the cayenne is well incorporated with the butter. This mixture is generally used for sandwiches. Capsicum Syrup. — Make 2 pints of strong syrup (21b. of sugar to the pint), and whilst hot pour in loz. of tincture of Capsicum. Bottle for use.288 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, -Utensils, Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. Capsicums—continued. Cayenne and Catechu Lozenges.—Soak loz. of gum dragon in 2oz. of water, and work it on a slab until it becomes quite elastic ; then add gradually 21b. of icing sugar and foz. each of essence of cayenne and prepared catechu. The cayenne and catechu must be added only when the paste is smooth and com- pact, and a few drops of cobalt blue should also be added while working, so as to give a brilliant whiteness to the paste. Dust the slab plentifully with powdered loaf sugar, roll out the paste to about the thickness of two half-crowns, and with a cut rolling-pin make impressions of the shape of the lozenges. Should one of these rolling-pins not be to hand, make a mark on the paste with the back of a knife. With a round tin cutter, about fin. in diameter, cut out the lozeng-es, put them flat in rows upon baking-sheets dusted with sugar, and let them dry in the hot closet or screen. Put them when ready into jars, keep them in a cool place, and use as desired. Cayenne Cheese.—Put 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese into a basin, mix in an equal quantity each of flour and butter, sprinkle over sufficient cayenne pepper to taste, and work well to a paste ; roll this out thin, cut it into shapes, and bake them in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, place on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve very hot. Cayenne Drops.—Put the required number of pounds of sugar into a sugar-boiler with a little water, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add a little lemon-juice, and boil to the caramel degree; then add a few drops of essence of Chillies or cayenne, to give it the required flavour. Pour the sugar while boiling into impressions made in dried icing sugar; let the drops get cold, and pack them away in tins or boxes for future use. Cayenne Pepper.—For this, thick-skinned, fine, red, long, Peppers must be used. Spread fib. of it on a tray, and dry it in the air, but not in the sun; then take off all the stalks, put them in a mortar, and pound them well. Put the cayenne into jars, and it is ready for use. The mortar should be covered over with a cloth while pounding, so as to prevent the dust flying into the eyes of the operator. Cayenne Salt.—Put 2oz. of fresh Chillies in a mortar and powder them; then mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of dry salt, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 2 wineglassfuls of water. Put the mixture into a bottle, cork it, and keep it in a warm place for a week. At the end of that time, strain the mixture through fine muslin, pour it into plates, and let it evaporate by the heat of the sun or a hot stove. When ready, it will be in soluble crystals of cayenne and salt, and will be found a very useful condiment. Cayenne Wine.—Put about three dozen fresh red Chillies in a mortar and pound them, then put them into a large bottle, pour over them f pint of white wine or brandy, cork down tightly, and leave it for two or three weeks—foz. of cayenne pepper may be used in place of the Chillies if preferred. This wine gives a great finish to sauces, soups, stews, &c. Chilli Sauce.—Chop six green Peppers and four large onions very finely, put them into a , saucepan with two dozen peeled tomatoes, 8 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar and 3 of salt, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil gently for an hour. Let the mixture cool, pour it into jars, and cover over. It is then ready for use. Chilli Vinegar.—(1) Steep a handful of Chillies in a bottle of the best vinegar for fifteen days, keeping the bottle well corked. At the end of this period pour the vinegar off and bottle it. Or it may be made by steeping a table-spoonful of cayenne pepper in a bottle of vinegar for a fortnight, then straining it clear'and bottling. Acetic acid, reduced to the strength of vinegar by adding water, makes it more delicate in flavour. (2) Put 2oz. of picked, cleaned, Bird’s-eye Chillies into a bottle, pour over 3 breakfast - cupfuls of vinegar, cork or stopper up the bottle, and let it remain for four or five weeks. Filter 1 breakfast-cupful of the liquor, add to the remainder another breakfast-cupful of vinegar, expose the bottles to the sun for a few days, filter off the liquor, add it to the quantity already filtered, and it is then fit for use. Essence of Capsicum.—(1) Put 2oz. of dried Capsicums in the sun for an hour or so, pound them in a mortar, put them into a glass bottle, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and pour over only sufficient vinegar to make a limp paste. Stopper up Capsicums—continued. the bottle, expose it to the sun for a few days, filter the liquor through muslin, adding more vinegar to bring the whole to the consistence of thick sauce, and pour it into a bottle ; it is then ready for use. (2) Put 2qts. each of distilled water and over-proof spirit into a jar, add lib. of Capsicum pods and let them steep for a month, taking care to have the jar corked, and giving it a vigorous shaking daily for the first two weeks. It is then ready for use, but must first be strained and filtered, and the jar must be replenished with an equal quantity of spirit to that which is drawn off. Essence of Cayenne.—Pour lqt. of vinegar into a jar over loz. of cayenne, cover it over securely, and let it remain for a month. Strain the liquor through a muslin bag or strainer into bottles, cork them down, and put them away in a cool place until wanted. Pickled Capsicums.—(1) Put some Capsicums in a jar, and cover them over with boiling vinegar, adding to every pint of liquor ^oz. of powdered mace, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. When quite cold, tie the jars over with bladder, and in about five or six weeks they will be quite ready for use. It is better to gather the Capsicum pods before they are red. (2) The Capsicums should be young, green, and freshly gathered. Cut off their stalks, then scald them; put them in a basket, place a board over them with a weight on the top, and leave them for twelve hours for the purpose of extracting all the bitter water. Arrange the Capsicums in layers in a stone jar with parsley and mint between the layers; fill up the jar with strong white vinegar, and put the lid on. Leave the pickles for fifteen days before using them. If kept for any length of time, the vinegar must be changed occasionally. Stuffed and Baked Green Peppers.—Wash half-a-dozen large green Peppers, put them into boiling water, and boil for five minutes; take them from the water, and rub off the skins with a wet cloth. Cut off the stem ends, remove the seeds with a small spoon, and stuff the Peppers with any kind of minced cold meat, mixed with an equal quantity of stale bread softened with cold water, and seasoned with salt. Eeplace the stems, set the Peppers in a deep earthern plate or dish, pour in as much cold gravy as the dish will hold, and bake the Peppers in a moderate oven for half-an-honr. They may be stuffed with sausage-meat and bread. Serve on the dish on which they were baked. Cheese may be grated and mixed with bread- crumbs for stuffing Peppers ; and they should then be fried instead of being baked. Tincture of Capsicum.—Put fib. of Capsicums into a vessel with J pint of spirits of wine, and let them macerate for three days ; then filter, and when quite drained pour over the Capsicums j pint of spirits of wine and ) pint of water, taking care not to disturb the surface of the Capsicums. This will produce a large quantity of tincture. Add 1 wineglassful of water with 20grs. of chloride of calcium (fused) dissolved in it, and another wineglassful of water with 60grs. of phosphate of soda dissolved in it. Take care to have the salt solutions well mixed with the tincture, each being added separately. This will keep for any length of time, and is very useful when fresh or dried Capsicums are unattainable. CARAMEL.—The origin of this word is from the Latin canna, a cane, and met, honey. In this sense it is applied by confectioners to a class of sweetmeats which find exceeding favour in the United States and on the Euro- pean Continent, and are rapidly gliding into popular dis- tinction in all parts of the civilised world. Receipts for making a variety of these will be found hereunder. The term Caramel is also used for a colouring familiarly known as “burnt sugar”-—for soups, gravies, syrups, wines, spirits, and other things, requiring a brown or orange tint, without a pronounced flavour. It is described as a dark brown substance, obtained by heating sugar to 400deg. Fahr., or 210deg. to 220deg. Cent. Chemists tell us that Caramel is formed in the roasting of all materials contain- ing sugar, such as malt, when it is baked on the kiln to make stout, and in roasting coffee, and it is a question how far it can be chemically distinguished from the brown of roasted meat, fried onions, and flour. Kettner amusinglytee encyclopedia of practical cookery. 289 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Caramel—continued. Caramel—co ntinued. describes its use as allied to the powdering and rouging of ladies’ faces, to give complexion; but in this, as most of his analogies, the witty writer makes his facts subser- vient to burlesque. To prepare this colouring in its purest form, it is advisable first to dissolve the Caramel in hot water, and when cold to precipitate it by adding alcohol. In this way, the powder can be dried and bottled for future use. It may be prepared as follows: (1) Put into a silver-lined stewpan 1 teacupful of brown sugar and J teacupful of water. Stew over a hot fire till it burns a little. If too thick, make of the consistency of thin molasses, by adding a little more boiling water. Bottle and cork for use. (2) Put lib. of sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and stir constantly until it is almost black, and hard and brittle. Stir in slowly 1 pint of cold water, and boil to a syrup; let it get cold, pour into bottles, and it is ready for use. (3) Put into a small iron omelet-pan Jib. of granulated sugar, and place on a slow stove to burn thoroughly for thirty minutes. Remove the pan to the table to cool slightly for five minutes, and then add J pint of boiling water, mixing well with an iron spoon. Replace the pan on the stove, and boil for five minutes, stirring continually; then strain the sugar through a sieve into a basin, and put it in a cold place to cool thoroughly. Pour it into a bottle, and use when required. Burnt sugar prepared in this way will keep in condition for several weeks. (4) Stir Jib. of caster sugar in a copper pan with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until thoroughly melted; boil it for a- quarter-of-an-hour, stirring occasionally. When the sugar is a rich, dark brown, add lqt. of cold water, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. When cold, strain, put it into bottles, and cork it down tightly. Do not let the Caramel boil quickly, or it will turn black. (5) Melt 1 breakfast-cupful of brown or white sugar with 1 table-spoonful of water in a frying-pan. Stir until it becomes of a dark brown colour. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water; simmer for ten minutes, and bottle when cool. (6) Melt some moist sugar in a saucepan over a slow fire ; when quite brown, moisten it with a little broth, white stock, or water, stir it with a fork until quite brown, taking care not to let it burn. When done, put it away in a jar; it can be used for glazing the surface of meat or colouring. Caramel Basket Billed with Caramel Fruits.—ToFrancatelli we are indebted for the following design: Boil lib. of sugar in 1 breakfast-cupful of water to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and cool it by dipping the bottom of the pan into a little cold water. Rub the outside of a mould with oil of almonds, dip a pointed wooden stick in the syrup, and draw it along the out- side of one part of the mould in narrow threads, either straight, curved, or in zigzags, and cross them diagonally with other rows of the spun sugar in a similar manner. The edges of the basket and the base or stand are to be formed in the same way, but are to be worked out in bolder relief, so as to give strength and support to the whole structure. When the sugar is set, remove the mould, and the basket is ready. Remove the stalks from the fruits with which it is intended to fill the basket Stick the fruits upon small wooden splinters, dip in sugar which has been boiled to the crack, and rest them upon an oiled sieve, which, when full, should be set on one side to let the sugar stiffen upon the fruits. When this is satisfac- torily accomplished, raise the fruit on the sieve by pressing with the fingers under the sieve, and lift out carefully by the sticks so as not to damage the sugar round the fruits; then arrange them in the basket according to taste, with sprigs of angelica or real leaves between and amongst them. This Caramel basket is very pretty, but not easy to make. Caramel Bonbons.—(1) Boil some syrup to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and flavour with either liqueurs, essences, or a strong extract of coffee ; hold it over a very slow fire in a saucepan so as to allow it to cook slowly for about two minutes : in this way it will acquire flavour but little or no additional colour. Oil a slab, pour the Caramel on to it, and when it has cooled a little, mark it with the back of a knife in the shape of small squares or lozenges. When quite cold snap them asunder. (2) Take Jib. of chocolate broken up, 41b. of brown sugar, Jib. of fresh butter, and 1 pint of milk. Pour the milk into a preserving-pan and add the other ingredients to this. Let it boil at least half-an-hour, stirring frequently. When done, a crust of sugar will form on the spoon and on the side of the pan. Pour in a table-spoonful of extract of vanilla or other flavouring ; remove from the fire and stir rapidly till the Caramel begins to thicken. Then pour it quickly into buttered pans, and when nearly cold cut into small squares. Caramel Cream.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar into a sugar-boiling pan, hold it over a slow fire, stir gently, and when dark brown pour on to the bottom of a charlotte- mould and let it cool. Beat seven or eight eggs in a basin with two or three more yolks, add lqt. of milk, beat again, and then add fib. of caster sugar and a little grated lemon- peel. Ten minutes afterwards pass the liquid through a sieve into the mould with the Caramel, having previously buttered the mould round the sides. Set the mould in a stewpan on Fig. 328. Caramel Cream. a trivot, pour round some hot water so that it may reach to half the height of the mould, let the water boil up, and then draw the stewpan back, or if a gas-stove (which is best) turn low, so that the liquid preserves the same degree of heat, without boiling. Cover the stewpan, put hot ashes on its lid, and let the preparation poach for one hour at least; let the cream cool in the water. At serving-time turn it out on a dish (see Fig. 328), and garnish round with sweet biscuits and crystallised fruits, angelica, or what fancy and means may suggest. Caramel Cream Ice. — (1) Boil over the fire Jib. of moist sugar in a wineglassful of water ; when a dark brown colour, remove it a little to one side, and add the thin rind of one lemon and a stick of cinnamon. Bake all together at the side of the fire for a few minutes, stirring slowly; then add J pint of water, the beaten yolks of ten eggs, lib. of sugar, and 1J pints of milk. Stir over the fire until thick, and then strain it through a sieve into a basin. Pour in 1 wineglassful of cura^oa; freeze the ice in a freezer, and when nearly frozen mix in J pint of whipped cream. (2) Put 21b. of brown sugar into a skillet and stir constantly over a brisk fire until melted. Be careful not to let it burn. While it is melting, heat 1 pint of milk, and stir a little at a time into the melted sugar. Strain it, and when cool pour it into 3qts. of cream, beating well. Then freeze. (3) Put into a bright, copper sugar-boiler lib. of caster sugar, two eggs, half a large vanilla bean, split and cut into small pieces; add lqt. of milk, whisk well, boil, and strain through a sieve. Put 1 teacupful of sugar in a small stew- pan and stir over the fire until the sugar turns liquid and begins to smoke. Turn this into the boiling mixture, and set away in a crock to cool. When cold add lqt. of cream. Put the mixture into a freezer, and freeze. The flavour of this cream can be varied by browning the sugar more or less according to taste. (4) Put 4qts. of rich cream into a copper basin with 21b. of granulated sugar, four eggs, one vanilla bean, split and cut crosswise into small pieces, and J pint of Caramel. Stir well, put the basin on the stove or the fire, and continue to stir until the mixture reaches the boiling-point; then remove it and strain at once into an earthenware pan. Let it cool, put it into a freezer, and use as required. Caramel Creme Renversee.— Put into a copper sugar-pan 3oz. of granulated sugar with J gill of cold water. Toss theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 290 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Caramel—continued. pan briskly to melt the sugar well; then place it on the stove, and let the sugar boil slowly until it becomes a light brown colour. If a moderate fire it will require four minutes, but if a brisk fire only two will suffice; this will now be a Caramel. Take a pudding-mould holding lqt.; line the in- terior with all the Caramel, holding the mould in the left hand, and spreading it evenly all around. Put the mould in a cool place, and let it get thoroughly cold. Have 1 pint of milk in a bowl; break in four eggs, add jib. of powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-essence. Beat well for five minutes, strain through a sieve into another bowl, and fill the mould with this cream. Put it in a tin pan filled with water to half the height of the mould, and place in a very moderate oven for forty-five minutes. When of a good golden colour remove, and cool for at least two hours. Turn it out on to a dessert-dish, and serve with its own juice. Caramel Croquenbouch.es of Fruits.—Remove the stalks from some greengages, Orleans plums, grapes, and cherries; quarter some pink pears, and remove the peel and white pith from some oranges and quarter them. Stick the fruit on small wooden splinters, and dip them in sugar that has been boiled to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), and lay them on a sieve which has been oiled, until the sugar is stiff. When ready to use the fruit, push them up from underneath the sieve with the fingers so as not to injure the sugar on them. Rub the outside of a plain, high, round mould with oil of almonds, and build the Caramel fruit up outside in circular rows, com- mencing with the largest at the base of the mould, and ending with the smallest, so that when the croquenbouche is lifted off the mould on to a dish the small fruit will be uppermost. Ornament with candied angelica and spun sugar. Preserved fruits can be used for this purpose if fresh are not obtainable, but in that case the syrup must be well drained off, and the fruits partially dried before being dipped in the Caramel. Caramel Custard. — (1) Make a rich cinnamon - flavoured custard; allow a breakfast-cupful of brown sugar to every quart of custard, and stew it in a pan till it browns well. Then mix it with the custard while both are hot. Serve cold. (2) Moisten 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar with a little water in a saucepan, stir it over the fire until it becomes a dark brown colour, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with a little milk, strain them, and add 1 pint of milk, sufficient of the cold Caramel mixture to colour the custard, and sugar to taste. Butter a mould, pour in the custard, and put this in a bain- marie containing cold water; place on a gentle fire or gas-stove, and let it be, taking care that the water does not quite boil. When the custard is set, turn it out, and serve. (3) Take 1 teacupful of moist sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, lqt. of warm milk, six eggs, £ teaspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the sugar into a flat stewpan, and stir until it melts and is light brown ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and when the sugar is dissolved stir it into the warm milk. Beat the egg-, add to them | teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring and part of the caramelled milk. Strain into the remainder of the milk, and pour into a buttered 2qt. mould. Set the mould in a pan of warm water, and bake for thirty to forty minutes, or till firm. Thrust a knife into the middle; if it comes out clean, the custard is done. Serve cold with Caramel sauce. Caramel Frosting.—Put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of water, add 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar and one square of chocolate. Place it on a hot stove and simmer gently for twenty minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Spread it on the cake while hot. Caramel Mousse.—Beat the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan with 9 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then pour in 1 pint of milk and stir the mixture over a slow fire till it thickens and is on the point of boiling, when remove it at once, for if it quite boils the eggs will curdle. Pass the cream through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir until it has cooled. Put ilb. of caster sugar into a small pan, and stir it over the fire until it has boiled to a dark brown. Stir in 1 teacupful of water with the Caramel, and boil it a few minutes longer. Whip the cooled mixture over ice for ten minutes ; then gradually mix in the Caramel and 3 teacupfuls of whipped cream. Pour the mixture Caramel—continued. into a dome-shaped mould, put a sheet of paper on the top, and close the lid; then pack it in pounded ice and salt. The mousse should be kept at least one hour in the ice. Dip the mould in milk-warm water, wipe it, and turn the mousse out on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has Fig. 329. Caramel Mousse. been placed on a dish, garnish with small sponge cakes, decorated with dried cherries (see Pig. 329), and serve. Caramel Pudding.—(1) Cream together 1 breakfast-cupful each of warmed butter and caster sugar. Add five eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), and 1 breakfast-cupful of preserved damsons, removing the stones. Beat all together very lightly, and season with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Prepare an open tart case of patten paste, fill with the Caramel preparation, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Boil a handful of loaf sugar with | pint of water until it is dark brown. Warm a custard-mould, pour the syrup into it, and turn the mould about until it is well lined. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with 1 pint of milk, and pour this into the mould ; cover the top with a piece of paper, and put it in a saucepan containing sufficient cold water to nearly reach the top of the mould, but take care not to let it come over the top (a bain-marie will do better). Boil gently for one hour. When done, take the mould out and set it in a basin of cold or iced water; when cold turn the pudding out on to a glass dish, and garnish with fruits, biscuits, &c. (3) Boil 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar with wineglassful of cold water in a saucepan until of a dark brown colour; pour it, while hot, into a plain and quite dry mould, and turn it about until the mould is well lined with the Caramel. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the white of one in a basin, and add 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar. Boil | pint of milk ; when cool, mix it with the eggs and sugar, and turn the custard into the mould lined with Caramel. Put the mould in a saucepan half-filled with water, taking care not to let the water come over the top, simmer it gently for half-an-hour, and then turn it out on a dish. Some of the hot Caramel will run off and form a sauce round the pudding. If the Caramel is flavoured with a little liqueur, such as maraschino or curagoa, the pudding is greatly improved, or the custard may be flavoured according to taste. (4) Put in a basin four eggs with 3oz. of powdered sugar ; mix briskly with a whisk for two minutes, add 1| pints of cold milk and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-essence. Mix well for one minute, and strain through a sieve into another basin. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, fill them lin. high with Caramel, let it cool for five minutes, then pour in the prepara- tion, dividing it equally. Place the moulds in a tin pan filled to half their height with warm, but not boiling water, put in a moderate oven, and steam for forty minutes. Take them out, turn on to a hot dish, and serve in their own sauce. These puddings may be prepared in cups instead of moulds. Caramel Sauce.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of white sugar into a saucepan upon the fire with 1 table-spoonful of water; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon for three or four minutes until all the water evaporates, and watch it carefully until it assumes a delicate brown colour. In the meantime, put into another saucepan 6oz. of sugar, half the yellow rind of a lemon cut thin, lin. of stick cinnamon, and 1 pint of cold water; bring these gradually to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes; add 1 wineglassful of wine, or half the quantity of brandy. Strain the liquid quickly into the Caramel, mix them thoroughly, and serve the sauce with any pudding desired.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 291 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to see under their special heads. Caramel—continued. . Caramel for Sweetmeats.—Melt £lb. of double refined sugar with J pint of water and 1 pinch of citric acid. Put this melted sugar over the fire in a copper skillet (it should be a tinned one), and when the sugar has boiled thick dip the handle of a spoon first into the boiled sugar then into a pint bowl of cold water, and press the sugar from the spoon into the water. Repeat this process till all the sugar is in the water. If a bit taken out of the water snaps and is easily broken when cold, it is done ; if the sugar is not brittle, pour the water off and return the sugar to the skillet, and boil it as long as necessary. When the sugar is sufficiently boiled and has all been trans- ferred to the pint of cold water, and has three-parts cooled, then pour off the water and run the sugar in the pattern of a maze on to a well-oiled copper mould. It ought to look thick like treacle, but of a light, bright gold colour. Caramel Syrup.—Melt I breakfast-cupful of moist sugar in a sugar-boiling pan over a moderate fire ; stir the sugar with a spatula until it is quite fluid, then mix with it 1 breakfast- cupful of water and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring, adding afterwards lib. or lilb. of caster sugar. Boil until it is a strong syrup, and then take it off the fire. Use either hot or cold. Diamond Caramels.—Put 101b. of glucose into a round- bottomed, copper basin, add 2£lb. of granulated sugar, and boil to the crack (see Sugar-boiling) ; add a few drops of oil of lemon to flavour. Turn the whole out on to a marble slab rubbed well all over with olive oil, and let it run between iron bars to about §in. in thickness. Let this remain until quite cold, cut it into cubes, wrap them separately in waxed paper, and they are ready for use. Philadelphia Caramels.—Put 6 (lb. of sugar into a sugar- boiler, with ^lb. of butter, £ teaspoonful of cream of tartar, £lb. of cocoa paste, and 2oz. of white wax of paraffin; pour in lqt. of rich cream, and boil over a clear fire to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Have ready a well-greased marble slab with iron bars on it, pour over the mixture, and let it get cold. Cut it into cubes or other shapes, wrap them up separately in waxed paper, and put them away in boxes. Sponge Caramels.—Put 21b. of strained honey into a bright copper basin, and add 41b. of powdered loaf sugar. Put the basin on a very slow fire (one covered with ashes for preference), and boil or rather evaporate to the ball degree (see Sugar- boiling), stirring constantly with a spatula. Flavour with a few drops of lemon or orange oil, stir in the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and continue to stir and cook until the mixture is of such a consistence that it will not stick to the back of the hand when placed upon it. Turn it out on to a marble slab that has been well rubbed with olive oil, and let it cool; flatten it with the hands slightly oiled, and let it remain until it is stiff enough to be cut. Cut it into cubes, wrap them separately in waxed paper, put them away in boxes, and use as required. CARAFUECA.—This is essentially a Spanish dish, containing the usual national assortment and combination of pork, oil, almonds, and other things. There is no difficulty whatever in its preparation, so should those who have Spanish friends desire to provide an accept- able dish, they cannot do better than prepare the following; Take a couple tf fillets of pork, and cut them up in good- sized squares; put them into a stewpan with a little lard, two dozen small onions, and a piece of raw ham cut into large squares or dice. Place the pan on the fire, fry until the meats are nearly done, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and add sufficient broth to cover. Let all boil for a few minutes, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire to let the meat finish cooking. Pour the mixture into an earthen- ware pan, selecting one that will stand the fire, put four or five sausages, cut in small pieces and fried, on the top, and the same number of eggs hard boiled and cut up into quarters. Dust them over with salt and pepper, and sprinkle the meats and eggs over with almonds that have been cut into pieces, fried in oil, and crushed with a rolling-pin. Place the pan on the fire and boil up quickly, and then remove it to a moderate oven to dry the contents for thirty minutes or so. Serve the Carapulca in the pan in which it is cooked. CARAWAY*.—The plant (Carum Carvi, Fig. 330) which produces Caraway-seeds grows wild in Southern Europe and some parts of Asia; but it is usually culti- vated in extensive fields for the sake of its prolific crops. Rhind pronounces the Caraway to be a native of England, “ growing wild occasionally in meadows and pastures.” The under-leaves of the plant about spring-time are occasionally used in soups, and the spindle-shaped roots were at one time eagerly sought after as a delicious vegetable, greatly superior to parsnips. The seeds and essential oil are largely imported into Great Britain, and in Essex some extensive factories exist for distilling Caraway with spirits. The familiar “ Caraway Comfit ” and “seed-cake” owe the favour in which they are held to this delicate aromatic. Caraway Biscuits.—Warm |lb. of butter and beat it to a creamy consistence with sib. of caster sugar; then mix it with two well-beaten eggs and sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, and sprinkle some Caraway-seeds in it. Dust some flour on to a table, turn the paste on to it, and roll out thin. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter, about 2in. in diameter, and dock them. Arrange the biscuits on a baking- sheet a short distance from each other, and bake them in a slow oven for ten minutes. When lightly coloured, take the biscuits off the tin, and leave them till cold. Caraway Cakes.—(1) Whisk three eggs and )lb. of caster sugar in a bowl, and stand it in a larger bowl containing boiling water; keep whisking until it is a thick batter, renewing the boiling water in the outer bowl. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, dissolve it, but do not let it oil, pour the batter in with it, and stir all slowly together. Add gradually (rib. of sifted flour, and teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds. Butter a cake-tin, add a small teaspoonful of baking-powder to the mixture, turn it into the tin, and bake for half-an-hour. (2) Rub 4oz. of butter in lib. of flour, and when quite smooth mix in ilb. of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of Caraway- seeds. Stir in sufficient water or well-beaten eggs to form the whole into a stiff paste, and flavour with a few drops of rose- water. Dredge a little flour on a paste-board, put the paste on it, and roll out thinly; with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter cut it into small cakes, prick them lightly with a fork, lay them on floured baking-sbeets, and bake in a brisk oven. (3) Set 1 quartern of bread dough in a warm place to rise. When well risen add a little salt and work ^lb. of butter well into it, then add (lb. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful 2 E 2TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 292 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Caraway—continued. of Caraway-seeds, and six eggs. Let it rise again, and when twice its original bulk turn into a buttered cake-tin, and bake in a sharp oven. (4) Warm 6oz. of butter in a basin and rub it to a cream, then add gib. of flour, 6oz. of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix all these well together, and then add three well-whisked eggs and sufficient milk to make a smooth batter. Line a tin with buttered paper, pour in the batter, and bake in a steady oven. (5) Put Jib. of butter in a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream; then add very slowly 1 teacupful of orange- or rose- water. Mix well in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of best flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of ground rice, lib. of caster sugar, gib. of ground sweet almonds, eight eggs well whisked, and 1 table-spoonful of Caraway-seeds. All these ingredients should be added and well mixed a little at a time. Pour the mixture into a tin or mould lined with buttered or oiled paper, and bake in a steady oven. (6) Irish.—Sift through a wire sieve gib. of ground rice. Break nine eggs and beat them for twenty minutes. Put 11b. of butter into a large basin, and with the back of a wooden spoon beat it to a cream ; add to it a little at a time 1 tea- cupful of rose-water and lib. of powdered white sugar, and continue beating till all is well mixed. Then gradually add the beaten eggs, and sprinkle in the sifted ground rice a little at a time. Put gib. of almonds into a bowl, pour boiling water over them, and let them stand for a few minutes, then slip them out of their skins, chop finely, and add to the ingredients in the large basin; at the same time add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and sprinkle in 1 teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds. Mix well together again, and pour into a buttered cake-tin. Bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a quick oven. (7) Rich.—Beat lib. of warmed butter to a cream, and then put in lib. of caster sugar. Break eight eggs into two basins, separating the yolks from the whites, beat them up separately, and then add to the butter and sugar. Beat in lglb. of dried flour, a grated nutmeg, i teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 2oz. of Caraway-seeds. Mix well together, put in a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. (8) Scotch.—Weigh out lib. of bread dough in the early morning, work up in it 6oz. of butter and 6oz. of caster sugar, and leave it in a warm place to prove. About two hours after work it together, and beat in two eggs and a small teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds. Knead it until smoothly blended (about half-an-hour); then work in gib. of flour, and continue breaking for about five minutes. Set it in a warm place for two hours to rise, and then break again. Butter a cake-mould, put in the batter, and let it rise for another hour, and then bake like bread in a quick oven. Caraway Candy. — Pound Joz. of Caraway-seeds to a fine powder, and boil it with lib. of loaf sugar and a breakfast- cupful of water to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). Pour out on a greased slab to cool, or the sugar when boiled may be flavoured with the essence of Caraway. Caraway Comfits.— (1) Take a table-spoonful of Caraway-seeds and put them in a comfit-pan, and heat them by stirring with a wooden spoon over a chafing-dish containing live embers of charcoal. Take 6oz. of gum arabic and dissolve it in water, but not to make it too thin, and have ready 3jlb. of syrup of 32deg. (see Syrup), which must be kept as hot as possible without boiling. Put a little of the syrup into the pan with a little of the dissolved gum, place the pan over the chafing- dish, and stir until the seeds are quite hot, and then add another table-spoonful of the gum, and continue to stir until the gum has dried on the seeds; put in a little more of the gum, and sprinkle over a little starch powder to give them another coating. Put a little of the boiled sugar and gum into a bag, and with a beading funnel give them another coating. Separate the seeds as much as possible, and put them on a sieve to remove any particles of sugar that do not adhere. Repeat this operation five times more, taking care to clean out the comfit-pan each time, and when they are done put them in a warm place for a day, to dry. Give them another coating, and continue this six times in all, when they will be ready for use. A table-spoonful of seeds is used at a time: with more than that quantity one is not likely to succeed. Caraway—continued. (2) Have a large copper preserving-pan, about 2ft. wide, with two handles and two iron rings, one at each side. Sling this pan to a beam by means of a long cord over a pulley fixed to a beam, .with a hook at each end of the cord to hook into the iron rings attached to the pan. Underneath this hanging pan have a charcoal fire in an iron pot, not a very hot fire, only sufficient to keep the pan warm. Boil in another pan some syrup for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and mix with it some tine white starch crushed to powder, the starch should be the whitest obtainable. In another pan warm some gum arabic and water. Take some large Caraway-seeds, sift the dust from them, and put them into the large hanging pan; add a ladleful of the warmed gum arabic and water. Rub the seeds with the hands till they are dry. Add gum arabic and rub till dry, then add a ladleful of starch and syrup, and rub and shake this over the charcoal fire till all are dry. Repeat this three or four times, boiling the syrup more as the seeds begin to get coated with it, and using less starch. When they have been dried seven times, put them in a sieve, and leave them in the stove till next day. Repeat this process every day for a week. Caraway Cordial.—Take loz. of the oil of Caraway (or 21b. of the bruised seeds), dissolve the oil in 1 pint of spirits of wine, put it into a cask, and add 2galls. more of spirits of wine. Dissolve 341b. of lump sugar in 4galls. of boiling water, and add to the other mixture. Fill up the 40gall. cask with water, and fine with 2oz. of alum dissolved in a little boiling water, the solution being put into the cask whilst hot. A little after- wards add loz. of salts of tartar, and shake or stir well together. Smaller quantities can be made in proportion, and cooks often add cassia oil, and essence of orange or lemon. Caraway Dragees.—Sift the dust thoroughly from the Cara- ways, and put them into a preserving-pan. When the seeds are quite warm, add to them some clarified sugar. Keep adding the sugar by degrees, and stirring occasionally till the dragees are of the desired size ; then lay them on sieves, and keep them in a warm place, that they may dry thoroughly before they are put away. Caraway Liqueur.—Put lib. of lump sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil until reduced to a syrup. Put 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of Caraway-seeds into a large jar or bottle, pour in 2qts. of brandy and the syrup, well cork the bottle, and stand it in a warm place. In a week’s time filter the liqueur through flannel, or through a jelly-bag, and bottle for use. Caraway Sauce.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with ^ pint of water till smooth; put in a good-sized lump of butter, and stir over the fire until boiling. Put in the sauce 1 teaspoonful of Caraway-seeds, a small quantity of sugar, and sufficient lemon-juice to make it acid. Boil it up again, then move it off the fire, stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, and serve it. Caraway Soup.—(1) Put five or six slices of brown bread in a saucepan with lqt. of water and 1 teaspoonful of Caraway- seeds, and boil them for half-an-hour. Slightly warm 3oz, of fresh butter, and beat it until creamy; then break three eggs into it, and continue beating for five minutes. Turn the beaten eggs and butter into a soup-tureen, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, and then, stirring them at the same time, season to taste with salt, and serve while hot. (2) German.— Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with 3oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until nicely browned; then pour in 5 pints of water. Peel a carrot, a turnip, and an onion, cut them, as well as two or three sticks of celery, into slices, put the vegetables into the water, and boil. When they are tender, put 1 teacupful of Caraway-seeds in with them, season the soup with salt and pepper to taste, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Toast some thin slices of brown bread, trim off the crusts, and cut them into nice- shaped pieces; put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. Caraway-water Cakes.—Sift Soz. of flour into a basin, together with 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar; add the required quantity of Caraway-seeds, and form the whole into a stiff paste by adding cream. Roll this out very thin, cut it with a biscuit-cutter into rounds, dock with a docker, put them on a baking-sheet slightly sprinkled with flour, place them in a moderate oven, and bake. The cakes will only require a few minutes to bake,293 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifce., referred to, see under their special heads. Caraway—continued. and must then be taken out and packed away in boxes if not wanted for immediate use. The size of the cakes will depend upon fancy. Essence of Caraway.—Put 2oz. of freshly-bruised Caraway- seeds into a bottle with 1 pint of spirits of wine; cork the bottle down, and place it in a warm place for about ten days. Pass the essence through a fine cloth to filter it, put into smaller bottles, and keep them well-stoppered until wanted for use. Tincture of Caraway.—Infuse for three weeks lib. of caraway-seeds (not ground) in lgall. of over-proof spirit; filter and bottle. CARBOInIC ACID. — This powerful disinfectant, distilled from coal tar, is not suitable for kitchen use owing to its powerful pungent exhalation, which is cer- tain to taint any food that may come in contact with it. Some cooks like to use it for pouring down sinks and drains, but it is not recommended when other less offen- sive disinfectants are within reach. See Disinfectants. CARBON.—It would be entering on a vast field of interesting matter—but outside the practical intentions of this Encyclopaedia—to treat of Carbon in its multi- farious associations with food and cookery. Suffice it to state broadly that Carbon is the essential basis of all organic matter, and, in combination with other elementary bodies, has to be considered and dealt with by the cook and confectioner in each and every stage of their practices. From the fuel or gas that provides by its combustion heat for cooking, to the finest entremet or ragout, Carbon either sensibly or insensibly occupies the prime post. The most highly concentrated and purest condition in which Carbon can be found is the diamond, a form of crystallised Carbon; then we find Carbon in coal, gas (as carburetted hydrogen), lamp-black, charcoal, soot, and carbonic-acid gas as the product of decomposition. But besides all these useful compounds of Carbon, it exists in foods to an extraordinary extent, and makes its presence unpleasantly conspicuous whenever incineration or “burning” of food occurs, which is neither more nor less than the driving off by excessive heat of watery matters with which the Carbon is in combination, and leaving it to destroy by its unfettered presence the coarsest or the most delicate dish. Of this we have samples in caramel or “ burnt ” sugar, in baking, roasting, frying, or any other similar process—continue the heat indefinitely, and Carbon will show itself by browning, then “ burning,” giving off lots of carbonaceous smoke, and leaving nothing behind but a black cinder. Carbon then should be treated by the cook as an excellent servant and friend, and feared as a terrible foe. Treated with care and consideration it is the most trustworthy slave of the kitchen, its influence being felt everywhere, whilst its presence is unrecognised; but neglect will assuredly bring the cook face to face with the grievous fact that the neglected slave is his master. Carbon is chemically stable, that is to say, although it enters into combination with other matters as an ele- mentary body it never changes; it loses its identity for the time being, but is ever unchangeably present. This stability of character it communicates to other matters with which it may be incorporated, hence it is an opponent of decomposition. For this reason it is largely employed as a purifier and preventer of putrefaction, although it is now acknowledged that its influence as a disinfector has been greatly over-rated, and that it exercises its preventive powers only in chemical combination. The table given by Dr. Parkes gives some interesting details, indicating that in a measure the greater proportion of Carbon a body contains the less liable is it to de- composition. For instance, every cook knows that cooked flesh keeps better than uncooked flesh, they will not be surprised therefore to learn that the proportion of Carbon in cooked meat greatly exceeds that in uncooked meat. The difference is brought about, not by any addition of Carbon—continued. Carbon to the uncooked meat, but by the unavoidably driving off of other matters with which the Carbon was in combination, by the application of heat, causing a decided waste in cooking. Butter contains a large pro- portion of Carbon, hence butter should be very stable and free from decomposition. It is so when carefully clarified, but there are very few samples of butter sent into the market that are not mixed up with butter-milk, curds, and other substances which so readily decompose as to turn the entire mass rancid. Taking loz. to contain 437 '5 grains, the following table will be found instructive ; loz. of Uncooked Lean Beef contains 64 grs. of Carbon. „ Pat Cooked Meat )> 98-3 „ 117 7 Bread 119 Wheat-flour 168 „ Biscuit 183 Rice 176 Oatmeal >> 172 Corn-flour ,, 176 Peas 161 Potatoes „ 49 Carrots „ 18 Butter 5> 315 Eggs ?> 7P5 Cheese 162 „ Milk 30-8 Sugar 5 J 187 also Carbonic-acid Gas, Charcoal, Fuel, &c. CARBONADES.—As in many other instances, the modern meaning of this term has been gained from one of the processes of its original preparation. Thus, the original signification being that of a grill or broil over the coals (carbon)—“ a rasher on the coals ”—it was usual to score the meat across with a sharp knife, and rub into the cuts hot peppers, seasoning, and spices. To carbonade signifies now to hack and cut meat as for broiling, and so to cut up cold meat for a stew, and then to the stew itself, a spiced ragout. In France the term is used in this latter sense, to denote a special stew made with scraps of cold meat, garlic, and onions. See Mutton, Pike, &c. CARBONIC-ACID GAS.—This combination of car- bon and oxygen (C02) is of very great service to cooks. It is the gas by which bread and other materials are leavened, and it is produced either by yeast, as a result of sugar fermentation, or by the admixture of an alkali with an acid, such as bicarbonate of soda or ammonia with tartaric or citric acid, cream of tartar, or sour milk. Carbonic-acid Gas is also obtained for extensive use by submitting powdered marble, whiting, or chalk to the action of oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid); it is prepared in this way for aerating water for drinking and bread. The apparatus required for either purpose being elaborate, does not recommend itself to domestic use, but a system of supplying this gas in a highly condensed form has been so successfully carried out that in course of time it is probable that a mode of aerating or “ leavening ” dough and pastry in small quantities will be designed, and supersede the use of yeasts and baking-powder, which have the unfortunate fault of remaining in the bread after the work of aerating is completed. In the use of yeast this is especially noticeable', for it is not at all times any too pure, and invariably communicates an undesirable flavour to the bread, or whatever it has been employed to aerate (see Yeast). Carbonic-acid Gas can be liquefied at a pressure of thirty-six atmospheres, and in this limpid state is very portable if confined in strong iron retorts, from which a little can be taken at a time. The idea that Carbonic-acid Gas is poisonous has been effectually contradicted by skilful chemists, who declare294 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Carbonic-acid Gas—continued. that it is not a supporter of life or combustion, but can be used in our foods without the slightest fear of deleterious consequences. Indeed if this were not so, its use, whether generated from marble, alkalies, or yeast would render bread and all leavened food injurious to life. It has probably been confounded with the terribly disastrous carbonic-oxide gas, or choke-damp of the mine. GAEDAMOMS. — The seeds of the Cardamom- plant (Cardamomum), known to brewers as “ Grains of Paradise,” are much used by cooks and confectioners, for the peculiarly agreeable but pungent aromatic flavours afforded by them. In curry powders their presence is considered essential. The Cardamom is a native of the East Indies, and grows abundantly in India, Ceylon, Madagascar, and especially along the Malabar coast. There are several kinds, but that from which the seeds of commerce are usually obtained throws out a flower- stalk, about 1 Aft. long, direct from the roots, which creeps along the ground, and bears numerous small white flowers. These flowers give place to triangular capsules, containing several small, irregular-shaped, dark-coloured seeds. Cardamom Cakes.—Work into a smooth paste the yolks of five eggs, with sufficient flour to make it stiff, add 1 teacupful of caster sugar, 1 teacupful of cream, and 1 tsaspoonful of bruised Cardamom-seeds. Roll out the paste, cut it into shapes with ornamental cutters, and fry in hot butter. It is sometimes advisable to add a small quantity of water to the butter. Cardamom Comfits.—Put the Cardamoms into the oven to dry them, break the skins, and pick out all the seeds. Have ready a large copper preserving-pan, about 2ft. wide, with two handles and two iron rings, one at each side. Sling this pan to a beam by means of a long cord over a pulley fixed to the beam, with a hook at each end, to hook into the iron rings attached to the pan. Under this hanging pan have an iron pot with a charcoal fire in it, not a very hot fire, only enough to keep the pan warm. Boil in another pan some syrup for a-quarter-of- an-hour, and mix with it some fine white starch crushed to powder, the starch should be the whitest obtainable. In another pan warm some gum arabic and water. Put into the large pan slung to the beam the Cardamom-seeds, and a ladleful of the warmed gum arabic and water. Rub the seeds with the hands till they are dry. Again add gum arabic and rub till dry, then add a ladleful of starch and syrup, and rub and shake them over the charcoal fire till all are dry. Repeat this two or three times, boiling the syrup more as the seeds begin to get coated with it, and do not use so much starch. When they have been dried seven times put them in a sieve, and leave them in the stove till next day. Repeat this process every day for a week. Cardamom Flavouring1.—This very powerful aromatic, used in the form of essence, is greatly used for flavouring bitters, cordial-i, and other like beverages. It is made by soaking bruised Cardamom-seeds in proof spirit for a month, and then straining, or filtering off the fluid. The tincture, which is not so highly concentrated, is more generally used. Tincture of Cardamoms.—Put lib. of whole (not ground) Cardamom-seeds into a jar containing a gallon of over-proof spirits, and let it infuse for fully three weeks, when it may be filtered and bottled. CARDINAL.—This name is given to dishes and sauces coloured bright red or carmine, taking its signifi- cation from the dress of that dignitary, which abounds in scarlet. The name is also applied to drinks, as a comparative degree rising from Bishop to Cardinal, and thence to Pope. The following receipts give a very faithful idea of the application of the term. Cardinal.— (1) Pierce some holes in the rind of a lemon, stick a few cloves in it, and roast it before a slow fire. Put a little cinnamon, mace, cloves, and allspice into a saucepan with ? pint of water, and let it boil to half its quantity. Boil 1 bottle of claret; burn a portion of the spirit out of it by applying a lighted paper to the saucepan. Put the roasted lemon and Cardinal—continued. spice into the claret, stir all up well, and let it stand near the fire for ten minutes. Rub a few lumps of sugar on the peel of a lemon, and put them into a jug with the juice of half a raw lemon; pour the claret upon it, grate in some nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. Serve the Cardinal up with the lemon and spice floating on it. Oranges can be used instead of lemons, and are very nice. This drink is delicious and re- freshing when cold and iced. (2) Moisten lib. of loaf sugar with some cold water; when dissolved, add 1 bottle of Rhine wine, I bottle of champagne, a few pieces of orange- or lemon-peel, and the juice of two oranges. Strain the liquid through a cloth, and let it cool on ice previous to serving it. Cardinal of Bitter Oranges.—Put the thinly-pared outer rind of two Seville oranges in a jug, pour over it 3 bottles of white wine, cover the jug, and let the peel infuse until the wine is well flavoured with it. Scrape off all the white pith round the oranges, cut into thin slices, put them in a china bowl, and strew fib. of caster sugar over them. Cover the bowl, and leave the oranges until the peel-liquor is ready. Strain the wine off the peel on to the oranges, empty in a bottle of champagne, and serve the Cardinal at once. Cardinal Bssence.—Put the thinly-pared rind of one Seville orange and one sweet one into a bottle with 2oz. of caster sugar, a very small piece of vanilla, Joz. of stick cinnamon broken into small pieces, and the juice of the two oranges. Pour in 1 pint of arrack, cork the bottle, and let the contents infuse for a week. At the end of that time the essence will be ready for use. A wineglassful of the essence sweetened with loaf sugar, and mixed with a bottle of Madeira wine, will make a good and quickly prepared Cardinal. Cardinal of Fine-apple.—Peel and cut a pine-apple into thin slices, put them into a china bowl, strew plenty of caster sugar over them, and let them stand an hour or two. Put the trimmings of the pine-apple into a saucepan with a small quantity of cold water, and boil them until the flavour is extracted; then take them off the fire, and leave until cold. Strain the water off the peel, and sweeten it with a small quantity of sugar; mix with it 1 pint of white wine, and pour the whole over the slices of pine-apple. Cover the bowl and let the contents remain for an hour or two. When ready to serve, mix in 1 bottle of champagne. Cardinal of Strawberries.—(I) Rub about 1 teacupful of loaf sugar on the peel of some oranges ; put it into a basin with |lb. of loaf sugar, dissolve it with a little cold water, and squeeze in the juice of five oranges through a sieve; then add Fig. 331. Cardinal Bowl and Glasses. 1 bottle of good moselle and a little rum. Stir all well, and then add I handful of fresh strawberries ; pour the mixture into a glass vessel, and stand it on ice for one hour. When you serve it, put the vessel on a tray with a silver ladle, and surround it with glasses (see Fig. 331). (2) Select lqt. of ripe and fully-flavoured strawberries; pick off their stalks and tops, and put them into a china or fancy bowl; strew about 6 table-spoonfuls of295 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Cardinal—continued. caster sugar over, cover the bowl, and leave for an hour or two. Pour 1 bottle of Rhine wine or moselle over the straw- berries, cover the bowl again, and leave for a short time longer. Pour another bottle of the same wine as used before over the strawberries, also i bottle of seltzer water, and serve. If to be kept, strain the Cardinal through a jelly-bag, pour it into bottles, and cork them tightly. (3) Pick lib. of ripe strawberries as for No. 1 ; put them into a china bowl, sift |lb. of caster sugar over, baste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of red wine, and leave for an hour or two, keeping the bowl covered. When the strawberries have stood sufficiently, pour in with them 1 bottle of Rhine wine and £ pint of red wine. Pour in at the last, when quite ready for serving, £ bottle of seltzer water, or, if preferred, a bottle of champagne. Cardinal of Sweet Oranges.—Peel the yellow rind very thinly off an orange, and put it into a jug; pour in 2 pint bottles of wine, cover the jug, and let the peel infuse for an hour or two. Scrape off all the white pith of the oranges, cut them into thin slices, put them in a china bowl, cover plentifully with caster sugar, and leave until the peel is ready. Strain the wine from the peelings through a fine hair sieve over the fruit, add more sugar if required, pour in a bottle of sparkling moselle, and serve immediately. CARDOONS (Fr. Cardons).—This vegetable (Cynara Cardunculus) is not very well known in this country, although in France it is much used as a vegetable (see Fig. 332). It is a native of Canada, but not success- fully cultivated in Great Britain, although, as M. Thoumire informs us, several attempts have been made to his knowledge to grow it in private gardens, the result being invariably unsatisfactory, as the Cardoons pro- duced were green, tough, and un- cookable, whereas the stalks should be white, crisp, and tender. In the south of France Cardoons are grown to perfection out of doors, but in the north the protection of a cellar is resorted to, and blanching ensured by packing the plants with straw. Some cooks claim great praise for the Cardoon as a tasty and nutri- tious food; but chemists do not appear to place much value upon its nutritive qualities, ranking it gener- ally as one of tbfe lowest order. In France, some pleasing stews are made with the young inner leaves, and they are frequently chopped up and put into soups to thicken. Stewed with beef-marrow they are said to be excellent, and as they are fit for use from October to December, a time when vegetables are particularly scarce, it would be well to encourage their cultivation if possible. In the hope that British cooks may soon be making inquiries for Cardoons, several modes of preparing them, as recom- mended by Continental chefs de cuisine, are hereunder appended. Baked Cardoons with Breadcrumbs.—Blanch and boil the required number of Cardoons; put them into a dish well- buttered and sprinkled with grated bread, cover them with breadcrumbs, pour over sufficient warmed butter to moisten, and brown the surface either with a salamander or in the oven. Take out the Cardoons when done, and serve. A little grated cheese may also he sprinkled over with the breadcrumbs. Cardoons en Blanquette.—Cook some Cardoons in the same way as in Cardoons for Garnish, and when they are done cut them into lengths, mix them with hot German sauce, put this in a silver casserole, and garnish with croutons of bread fried in butter. Cardoons—continued. Cardoons Boiled in Butter.—Prepare two or three heads of Cardoons, cut them up in pieces of any length, clean them, remove the threads, blanch and peel them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and add a lump of butter kneaded with salt. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil them until they are done and quite tender ; then take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with hot melted butter, and simmer gently for a few minutes, adding a little each of vinegar and grated nutmeg. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Cardoons Boiled in Stock.—Cut the stalks off white and tender Cardoons, remove the prickles, put them into boiling salted water, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then drain them, rub off the skins with a cloth, and put them into cold water. Put them in a saucepan, cover with white stock, and let them simmer until they are done ; then take them out carefully, arrange on a dish, pour over melted butter sauce, and serve. Cardoons with Brown Sauce.—Select white and tender Car- doons, chop off the green stems, and cut the white stems into pieces about 2iin. or 3in. in length. Wash these thoroughly, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and a little vinegar or citric acid added. Put in a small piece of the crumb of bread to take away the bitterness from them, cover the pan over, and boil for twenty minutes. Take them out with a skimmer, dip them into cold water, and rub well on a cloth to remove the thin skin. Cover over the bottom of a saucepan with trimmings of bacon, put the Cardoons on these, add sufficient broth to moisten them to their height, 1 tea- spoonful of flour wet with water, a little white wine and acid, a few spices, and salt to taste ; cover the whole over with paper, and boil slowly until done. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve with brown sauce poured over them. Cardoons with. Cheese.—Remove the outside leaves from four or five Cardoons, string the white parts, and cut them into pieces about lin. in length; put these into a saucepan with 1 pint of port wine, and cook them on a slow fire until they are quite tender. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and add loz. of butter well rolled in flour. Turn the whole out into a dish, squeeze over the juice of an orange, and sprinkle over 4oz. of grated cheese. Brown the surface with a sala- mander, or in the oven, and serve as hot as possible. Cardoons a l’Bspagnole.—(1) Procure some very white heads of Cardoons, cut each leaf into slices Gin. long (with the exception of the hollow ones, which are tough and thready), and remove all the prickles. Put the thickest leaves into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for a few minutes; then put in the leaves of the heart, turn the middle stalks into olive shapes, put them into the boiling water with the others, and blanch them also. Next try a piece in cold water to see whether the slime which is on the surface will come off by rubbing; if so, take them off the fire immediately, refresh them in cold water, wash them, and rub off all the slime. Prepare a blanc as follows : Cut |lb. of fat bacon and a small piece of beef-suet into large squares, put these into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, half a lemon cut into thin slices, a small lump of salt, and as much water as will cover the Cardoons when they are added. Stew the blanc for half-an-hour. then throw in the Cardoons, boil them up once, and leave in the blanc. When ready to use the Cardoons, trim them at both ends, put them in a stewpan with 1 teacupful each of Spanish sauce and broth, and a small quantity each of sugar and salt, and boil over a sharp fire so as not to cook them too much, keeping the fat well skimmed off. When cooked, arrange the Cardoons on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve without delay. (2) Cut the required number of Cardoons with white heads into pieces from 2in. to 3in. long, throwing away all the hollow and green ones ; put them into a saucepan of water, and boil them for half-an-hour. Drain the Cardoons, and rub off all the slime that will be found adhering to them. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan, with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire until mixed ; then pour in about 1 pint of clear broth, add two or three small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of verjuice, and salt to taste. Put in the Cardoons, and stew them gently until tender296 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cardoons—continued. When cooked, put the Cardoons on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. (3) Trim two or three heads of Cardoons, cut the solid parts into pieces about 5in. or 6in. long, peel the edges, and put them into scalding water until the skin will come off easily. Plunge them into cold water, remove the peel, and put them again into cold water. Put 111b. of fat from ox-kidney cut up small into a saucepan with a few slices of carrot, an onion stuck with cloves, two lemons cut in slices but without the peel or seeds, and add a clove of garlic, one or two bay- leaves, and a bunch each of parsley and spring onions. Set the saucepan on the fire, taking care not to let the ingredients brown at all, and when the fat is about three-quarters done dredge in a table-spoonful of flour, pour in sufficient water to moisten, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil well for a few minutes, skimming frequently. Let the liquor settle, and pour off the clear into another saucepan ; place the Cardoons in this, add two slices of lemon without rind or seeds, set the pan on the fire, and boil for a few minutes ; then cover the Cardoons with a round of greased paper, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for from three to four hours. Take out the Cardoons, put them into another saucepan with a little rich stock, and simmer gently until they nearly fall into a jelly. Turn them on to a dish, pour over Spanish sauce reduced with a little glaze and butter, and serve with a garnish of pieces of toast spread over with ox-marrow. The tops of the Cardoons may be skinned and cut up, blanched, and cooked with the other parts, and used as a garnish. Cardoons for Garnish.. — Select white and quite sound Cardoons, cut them into 3in. lengths, remove all the prickly part from the sides, plunge them into a basin of water, and let them blanch for twenty minutes. Take them out, rub off the skin, put them on a wire drainer in an oval-shaped sauce- pan, cover them over with slices of bacon cut very thin, and pour over a mixture made with flour, clarified broth-fat, and stock; then add one onion, two cloves, one faggot, a little salt and mignonette pepper to taste, and a few slices of lemon without the pips. Place the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until done. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Cardoons ■with Ox-Marrow.—(1) Take some Cardoons cooked as in Cardoons for Garnish, arrange them in a silver casserole, and pour over a little Spanish sauce. Blanch some ox-marrow by putting it into boiling water, take it out, drain it, and spread over pieces of toast cut iin. thick, 2in. long, and lin. wide; sprinkle these over with salt, glaze them, and put them in a hot oven for about four minutes. Arrange the Cardoons on a dish, place the pieces of toast on the top, and serve. (2) Cut the white stems of one or two heads of Cardoons into pieces about 6in. long, remove the fibrous skin, and put Fig. 333. Cardoons with Bouchees of Ox-marrow. them into acidulated water to soak. Take them out, put them into a saucepan of water, and blanch them for about fifteen minutes over a clear fire with the cover on the pan. Drain them, plunge them into cold water to steep, drain once more, and put into a saucepan; pour over them 1 wine- glassful of white wine, moisten to their height with broth and toppings, and add the juice of three lemons, a few cloves and peppercorns, and a small lump of well-kneaded butter. Cover the whole over with slices of bacon, over that put a piece of paper, put the lid on the pan, and boil over a moderate fire until they are done. Take them out carefully ona at a Cardoons—continued. time, arrange them on a silver dish in the form of a pyramid, trim both ends, and slip them on a di-h; then cut them across through the centre so as to divide the pyramid, and pour over them a little brown sauce reduced with wine. Place small puff-paste patties (bouchees) of ox-marrow round the dish (see Fig. 333), and serve with brown sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Proceed as for Cardoons a l’Espagnole (No 1). —Take a few pieces of ox-marrow of about equal size, and put them in warm water to draw out the blood. When thoroughly cleansed, blanch, and stew them in water with a little salt and a few slices of lemon to keep them white. When done, drain them in a clean towel, and put them into some reduced Spanish sauce. Skim off the fat, and do not forget to add a little sugar, which is desirable in all dishes of Cardoons, for it improves them greatly. Serve very hot. (4) Cut the leaves of some white heads of Cardoons into slices about 6in. long, throwing away all the tough hollow ones, strip them of their prickles, and blanch them in boiling water, first putting in the thickest leaves, next the leaves from the heart, and lastly the middle stalks, which should have been turned to the shape of large olives. Try a piece of Cardoon in cold water to see whether the slime that is on the surface will come off easily with rubbing; if so, throw the whole into cold water, and rub them well till all the slime is off. Throw the Cardoons into a white sauce that has been prepared as for vegetables, boil them up once, then leave them in the sauce. Cut some pieces of ox-marrow all of one size, put them into warm water to draw out the blood, blanch them, and stew in salted and slightly acidulated water. Take the Cardoons out of the sauce, trim them at both ends, put them into a stewpan with a teacupful each of Spanish sauce and broth, and a small quantity each of salt and sugar, and boil them quickly, taking care that they are not overdone, and well skimming off the fat. Drain the pieces of marrow in a clean cloth, and put them in with the Cardoons. Arrange the Cardoons and pieces of marrow on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. (5) Chop the white parts of the required quantity of freshly- gathered young Cardoons into pieces of equal lengths, put them into a basin of boiling water, blanch, and plunge them into cold water until they are cool. Take them out, drain them, wipe dry, and scrape and clean them well. Put a few slices of bacon and ham at the bottom of a saucepan, with two or three sliced carrots, two heads of cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; place the Cardoons on the top, cover them over with thin slices of lemon and bacon, add salt to taste, and pour in sufficient water to moisten. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils mix in a lump of butter kneaded with flour, and cook until the Cardoons are done. Put a little Fig. 334. Cardoons with Ox-Marrow. gravy and ox-marrow into a saucepan, stir them well in the bain-marie, add a little thickening, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, place the Cardoons from the ham and bacon mixture in it, and simmer gently for about ten minutes. Have ready some slices of bread about jin. thick, cut off the crust, toast and cover them over with blanched marrow, spread a little beef-glaze over, and warm it with a salamander; put the stewed Cardoons in the centre of a dish, place the pieces of toast round, and serve.297 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cardoons—continued. (6) Procure four or five freshly-gathered Cardoons, cut them into pieces of equal length, and blanch them in slightly acidulated scalding water. Trim off the prickles, rub off the skin and slime, and then soak the Cardoons in cold water for a few minutes. Drain, put them in a stewpan, and cover with slices of bacon; moisten to their height with white stock, white wine, and white broth, from which the fat has not been skimmed, in equal quantities ; boil the Cardoons until tender. Blanch some ox-marrow, and when firm drain it well, and cut it into small pieces. Drain the Cardoons when cooked, and lay them flat over a silver vegetable-dish, and pour hot Spanish sauce over them. Surround the base with three-corner meat cakes, that have been fried brown, and fill up the centre with balls of the marrow (see Fig. 334). Serve very hot. For a savoury luncheon dish this cannot be excelled, and invalids devour it with gusto. Cardoons with Veloute Sance.—Cut the leaves of the Cardoons into slices, with the exception of the tough, hollow ones, and remove all the prickles. Put the thickest leaves into a saucepan of boiling water, boil them for a few minutes, and then put in the leaves of the heart; trim the middle stalks into large olives, put them in, and blanch them also. Rub a piece of the Cardoons in cold water to see if the slime will come off easily, if so, throw the lot in, and rub them well. When quite clean, put the Cardoons in white sauce, and boil them. Take the Cardoons out, put them in a stewpan with some stock-broth, and boil them quickly. When cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour some hot veloute sauce over, and serve. If preferred, French melted butter can be used in place of the sauce veloute. Fried Cardoons.—Trim off the outer leaves of four Cardoons, cut them up into 6in. lengths, thread them on string, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water or stock to moisten, and boil over a clear fire until they are done and quite tender. Take them out, drain, dust them over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry to a good colour. Drain them, put them on a dish, and serve with melted butter poured round, or in a sauceboat. The Cardoons may be tied in bundles, and then cooked, and served, if desired, in the same way as asparagus, with toast under them. Puree of Cardoons. — Remove the prickles from some white and quite sound Cardoons, blanch them in water for twenty minutes, rub off the skins, cut them into 3in. lengths, and put them on a wire-drainer in an oval stewpan ; lay on the top some thin slices of fat bacon, and cover them with a white dressing made of flour, stock, and clarified fat; add one onion, two cloves, one faggot, some slices of lemon which have been peeled and all the pips taken out, and a little salt and pepper. Let these simmer until the Cardoons are done, then pour in an equal quantity of bechamel sauce; reduce, and press the puree through a tammy-cloth. Before serving, add butter and double cream to the puree. Stewed Cardoons.—(1) Trim off the outer leaves of four Cardoons, string the white part, and cut them up into pieces about 2in. long; put these into a bowl of water, wash them well, drain them, put them into a saucepan with a small bunch of sweet herbs, sprinkle over a little ground mace, salt, and pepper, pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of veal gravy, cover over the saucepan, and cook gently until the Cardoons are done and tender. Add a thickening of butter rolled in flour, boil until the liquor is thick, remove the bunch of herbs, and add the juice of half a lemon. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Use the white part only of the Cardoons ; scrape and wash them, and cut into pieces about the length of the little finger. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until the slimy skin can be easily rubbed off. Put the Cardoons in cold water, rub them well with a towel, and when all the slime is removed drain them ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with a thin layer of fat bacon, put in the Cardoons, and cover them with more bacon, a few slices of onions, a small bunch of thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf tied together, the juice of half a lemon, one or two cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the whole with water, and boil the Cardo ons—continued. Cardoons until tender. When cooked, drain them, rfiturn them to the saucepan with the bacon, pour in 1 teacupful of broth and tj teacupful of Spanish sauce, place it over the fire, and boil gently until the sauce is reduced to the required thickness. Mix a small quantity of melted ox-marrow with the Cardoons, turn them with the sauce into a hot dish, and serve. CARLOWITZ.—An Austrian red wine. CARLSBAD WATER.—See Aerated Water. CARMELITE SOUP —See Soups. CARMINE (Fr. Carmin).—A beautiful red pigment composed chiefly of the dried cochineal insect mixed with alum and a little red oxide of tin, this latter being omitted when the Carmine is prepared for culinary use. The term is derived from Kermes, the Arabian for cochineal. Its use is recorded from as early as the 17th century, chiefly as a paint or rouge for ladies’ faces. The best Carmine is sold in cakes, which are prepared from the cochineal as follows: One pound of the dried cochineal insect is coarsely bruised, and then macerated for a few minutes in 3galls. of pure water. To this is added loz. of cream of tartar, and heated gently. Then, whilst hot, loz. of powdered sulphate of alum is dissolved in it, and the boiling continued for a little time longer. As this crimson liquor cools, the Carmine settles to the bottom, and for the purpose of expediting the process it is customary to pour the hot solution into shallow dishes. Other processes are sometimes used ; but for the cook’s purpose, none is better than that just described. The best black cochineal should be used. Carmine Colouring.—Soak a 2oz. cake of Carmine in a little water to soften it, and then break it up in a glass mortar, and dilute it with 2qts. of hot syrup at 28deg. When this is cold, dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered sal ammoniac in it, and put it into bottles for future use. The above is very cheap and good, and is specially recommended. CARNABYN.—The name given to a very nutritious wine made from malt and meat. Its properties are said to be stimulating and tonic. CAROB.—From the sweet pods of this tree (Ceratonia Siliqua) a spirit and syrup are made in Sicily and other countries on the Mediterranean. It is said to possess a very pleasant flavour. In Egypt aromatic liqueurs and other refreshing mucilaginous drinks are made from it. The sweet pulp is so rich in butyric (butter) acid, that it performs an important part in the manufacture of flavourings in imitation of fruits. The brown pulp yields a spirituous liqueur, which is sometimes used by confec- tioners and manufacturers of British cordials. CARP (Fr. Carpe; Ger. Karpfen; Ital. Carpione).— Included in the great family of Carps are to be found many of our well-known fish, such as tench, barbel, gudgeon, gold-fish, loach, bream, chub, roach, dace, min- now, and bleak. The fish usually selected by cooks as the representative of this kind is the Cyprinus carpio, a fresh-water native of Europe and Asia, growing to as much as 2ft. in length, though generally averaging rather less298 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. than 1ft. But there are so many varieties, resembling each other in some points yet differing in many others. Those more frequently met with in our fish-markets are the English Carp (see Pig. 335), the Prussian Carp (see Fig. 336. Prussian Carp. Fig. 336), and the Gold Carp (see Fig. 337), all possessing about equal claim upon the cook. It is in season from September to May. The flesh is very highly esteemed by some epicures, and more especially the roe, which can be cooked in a variety of ways, but it is generally admitted that the body is better either stewed or braised. In its native state, the Carp is exceedingly long-lived, extending, so it is said, to over 200 years, which is not improbable, seeing how curiously tenacious of life it has proved to be. Indeed, Fig 337 Gold Carp. according to the accounts of certain natural historians, instances have been known of the Carp being taken by the hook from a private fish-pond, cut open and robbed of its roe, the incision being sewn up, and the Carp doing well after, even to the production of another roe. This legend may possibly be accepted with the proverbial pinch of salt. Baked Carp.—Clean a Carp, put it into a bowl of salted water and vinegar, and let it disgorge. Take it out, drain and dry it, stuff with well-seasoned forcemeat, sew up the belly, brush it all over with egg, dredge breadcrumbs over, and put a few small lumps of butter here and there on it. Place the fish in a deep earthenware dish, with two onions cut in slices, and a few sweet herbs; pour over 1 breakfast-cupful each of red wine and stock, mixed with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or essence, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Put the Carp carefully on a dish, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a lump of butter rolled in flour to thicken it, and stir constantly over the fire until it is done ; then mix in 2 teaspoonful of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Pour this round the fish or into a sauce- boat, and serve. Baked Carp a la Mariniere.—Take a good-sized Carp (say from 81b. to 101b.), scale, draw it, and cut a little off the fins, and put forcemeat in its inside. Remove a little of the skin from the back, leaving the flesh exposed, and lard this with fat bacon; then truss the head, put the fish on a drainer in a long fish-kettle, season it, and fill the kettle to about half the height of the fish with court-bouillon and white wine in the proportion of lqt. of the former to ^ pint of the latter. Put the kettle on the fire and let the liquid boil for five minutes ; then remove the Carp, and put it in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half to bake, basting it frequently. When it is done, take it out, drain it, and pour Carp—continued. its stock through a sieve, putting the fish back again into the kettle to keep hot. Prepare a little brown sauce with the stock, and, when clarified and strained, put it into a flat stewpan with a handful of mushroom trimmings, pour a wineglassful of white wine into it, and reduce ; then pass it through a seive, and add jib. of good butter to it. Place the Carp on an oval dish, and garnish it on both sides with a bunch of quenelles of whitings, one of mushrooms, and one of blanched olives; glaze the larding with a paste-brush, and pour a little sauce over the other parts of the fish and a little at the bottom of the dish. Put the soft roes into the remainder of the sauce, and serve in a sauceboat. Boiled Carp.—(1) Clean and wash one or two Carp, put them into a saucepan, pour over sufficient rich beef-gravy to cover, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion, three or four cloves, and salt to taste. Put the saucepan on a moderate fire, and cook gently for about an hour or until the fish is done. Pour a pint of strong beef-gravy into a saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine ; make this hot and add the strained juice of half a lemon. Place the Carp on a dish, pour over the hot, lemon-flavoured liquor, and serve at once. (2) Take a Carp, scale and clean it, and stuff the inside with some firm fish forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs. Put the fish, belly downwards, on the drainer of a fish-kettle with a good supply of court-bouillon and red wine mixed in the pro- portion of lqt. of the former to i pint of the latter. Boil up the liquid, and when boiling remove the kettle to the side of the fire, but keep it boiling till the fish is done, which for a Carp of 81b. or 101b. would be about an-hour-and-a-half. Next take an oval dish and put two small pieces of fried bread on it as a support to the fish; then cover over the dish with a napkin folded twice, and put the fish on it between the two pieces of bread. Garnish the dish with fresh parsley and large cooked crayfish. Prepare a sauce— either genoa or bordeaux—well beaten up with a little of the fish stock and mixed up with a garnish of crayfish tails. Put the sauce in a boat and serve. Matelote sauce may be used instead of the two named. (3) Scale and wash a couple of Carp, remove the livers and roes, and put them on one side; put the fish in a fish-kettle with a bunch of sweet herbs, one sliced onion, a small stick of horseradish, a lump of salt, lqt. of cider, sufficient water to cover the fish, and boil it. Chop two shallots, two boned anchovies, and finely mince the liver ; put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of soy; season with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper ; pour in 1 pint of port Fig. 338. Boiled Carp. wine, and about | pint of the cooking-liquor of the fish. Boil the sauce about fifteen minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened. Fry the roe of the Carp in butter. Put the Carp on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish it with the roe, slices of lemon, and fried parsley, arranged in alternate groups, and serve (see Fig. 338). Bouchees of Carp Soft Bioes.—Roll out some puff paste at six turns to about lin. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a fluted tin cutter about 2 lin. in diameter, then with a plain tin cutter l£in. in diameter cut three-quarters through the centre of each ; arrange these on a buttered baking-sheet a short distance from each other, and bake them in a quick oven. Trim away the gut from ten or twelve soft roes of Carp, steep them, blanch them, then cut them into middling-sized pieces. Take the cases out of the oven when cooked, run aTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. knife round the circle in the centre, and lift out the piece of paste, that having to form the lid; scoop the cases out, pour a small quantity of sauce that has been finished with cray- fish butter, or anchovy cream, in each, put in a piece of the roe, pour in a little more of the sauce, and put the lids on. Arrange the boucheea on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. Braised Carp.—Take a large Carp (about 41b. or 51b.), and after thoroughly scalding, drawing, and cleansing the fish stuff it with some quenelle forcemeat of whiting. Care must be taken to remove what is called the gall stone, which is found at the back of the head, for if not removed it will impart a bitter taste, and the flavour of the fish will be spoiled. Lay the fish upon a drainer, mask over with some more force- meat, and ornament with some fillet of soles and tails of crayfish, keeping the head clear. Cover the whole with well- buttered paper, moisten with white wine, and let it braise gently upon the fire for about an hour. When done, place it upon a dish, garnish round with crayfish, and pour oyer thick German sauce made with a little of the liquor in which the Carp has been braised, garnish the body with attelettes of crayfish (see Fig. 339), and send to table. Braised Carp a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut into 2in. pieces a well-cleaned Carp, remove the bone that is between the head and the backbone (as this is thought to give a bitter flavour), then cut the head into halves, and remove the bones from that. Put the whole into a bowl, sprinkle with salt, toss it about frequently, and let it remain for an hour; then wash it well, and drain. Put the pieces skin side downwards on a well-buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, sprinkle over grated nutmeg and pepper, put some slices of lemon freed of pips on the top, as well as two shallots cut into slices, and over these sprinkle pieces of parsley-roots and a few whole white peppers ; place the kettle on a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook for half-an-hour, by which time the fish should be done, and firm. Put it on a dish, remove from the kettle all the shallots and a portion of the parsley-roots, and spread the remainder over the fish. Pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of stock over the drainer — to remove the fish essence—into a saucepan with the shallots and parsley- roots, boil up once, strain it into a sauceboat, and serve with the fish. Broiled Carp.— (1) Scale and clean a Carp, and with a knife score across the sides, keeping the cuts quite |in. from each other; sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper, put it into a flat dish, with an onion cut into slices and a few sprigs of parsley, pour over a breakfast-cupful of sweet oil, and let it remain for an hour, rubbing it frequently with the marinade. Take it out, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it. When done, put it on a dish, pour over any fish-flavoured butter sauce, and serve. (2) Empty the fish, scale it, and wash it well, drying it on a cloth. Rub the Carp over with olive oil, season it with salt and pepper, put it on a gridiron, and broil it over a clear fire, turning to cook both sides equally. Boil some well-washed sorrel, and when tender, drain, and mash it with a small quantity of pepper, salt, and butter. Put the puree of sorrel on a hot dish, lay the Carp on it, cover it with white caper sauce, and serve. If preferred, maitre- d'hotel sauce or plain oil and vinegar can be poured over the fish in place of the white caper sauce. Carp—continued. (3) Scale and clean a Carp, wash it well in salted water and vinegar, drain and dry it, and rub it well with oil. Put it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and cook it until done, which will take from twelve to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the fish. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with caper sauce poured round it, or with oil and vinegar served separately. (4) Scale and clean a Carp, cutting off the fins and tip of the tail, remove the ears, and open the belly slightly to take out the entrails, taking care that the gall is not broken. Wash the roe, blend it with a few fine herbs mixed with butter and well seasoned with salt and pepper, stuff it into the belly of the fish, and sew it up. Put it in a dish or pan, pour over a little olive oil, sprinkle over finely-minced sweet herbs and salt, place the dish in front of a clear fire, and cook until the fish is done. Put it carefully on another dish, remove the thread, pour over a white caper sauce, and serve. Broiled Stuffed Carp.—Take a Carp and clean it, opening it all along the belly. Then make a stuffing with some mushrooms, parsley, chives, and two small onions, all finely chopped. Put a little butter in a saucepan, and add the mushroom mixture If the roe of the Carp is soft, it should be mixed with the mush- rooms and other savouries. Let the pan remain over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then remove it, and mix in some chopped anchovy, some yolks of hard-boiled eggs also chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. When the stuffing is done, put it in the belly of the fish, sew up the cut, wrap the Carp up in a sheet of oiled paper, and place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire. Remove the fish when quite done, take off the paper, put the fish on a dish with a large lump of butter worked up with lemon-juice, minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Carp a la Chambord.—Take a freshly-caught Carp, scale and clean it; then make a firm fish forcemeat mixed with fine herbs, and stuff it into the fish. Remove the skin from the sides of the Carp, and lard the flesh with square strips Fig. 340. Carp 1 la Chambord. of raw bacon-fat (see Fig. 340). Take a flat fish-kettle, and line the bottom with vegetables and bacon ; then put in the fish, season it, put in sufficient white wine to three parts cover the fish, and put the kettle in a moderate oven for about two hours. When the fish is done, the liquor should be reduced to half-glaze. Garnish the dish with mushroom heads, plain and studded quenelles, oysters, crayfish tails, or other things suitable, piled in groups, with a little genoa sauce (made with the fish stock, with the fat skimmed off, drained, and reduced) poured over them. Fish sauces should have butter added to them at the last moment before serving. Carp a la Maitresse d’Hotel. — Take a fresh Carp, scale, draw, and wash it thoroughly. Remove the roes, and, if soft, put them in water with a little vinegar and salt added, and let them blanch, but letting them boil up only once. Next take a gratin-dish and mask the bottom with minced vege- tables ; place the Carp on these, sprinkle a little salt over it, and pour in white wine to half the height of the fish; then add some aromatics, peppercorns, cloves, and a small bunch of parsley; put buttered paper all over the fish, put the pan on the fire, and boil; next put it into a slack oven, and about half-an-hour afterwards turn the fish and let it finish boiling slowly. Take the Carp out about thirty minutes before serving, put it on a dish, and keep it warm. Add a little good broth to the fish-stock, boil it up, strain it, and skim off the fat. Then take a small stewpan and put 5oz. of butter in it with the same quantity of flour, stir it up with a spoon, so as to make it like butter sauce (melted butter), quite smooth, put in a little of the fish stock, and place theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 300 Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carp—continued. pan on a slow fire. Stir the sauce until it boils, when remove it immediately, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of gherkins cut into small dice. Pour the sauce over the Carp, then place the roes on top, and send to table. Carp en Matelote.—(1) Clean and cut into pieces a good-sized Carp, put the pieces into a basin with salt sprinkled over them, and let them remain for an hour; then put them into cold water, and let them disgorge for about twelve minutes. Take them up, drain, put them into a fish-kettle, and add lqt. of mushrooms, one onion, one carrot (all cut up into slices), a bunch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, two cloves, Jib. of butter, and a little each of powdered mace, salt, and pepper; pour over 1 pint of claret, cover over the kettle, and boil slowly for about forty minutes, by which time the fish should be done. Put it on a dish, strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a liaison of flour and butter, and boil up once ; add to it a breakfast-cupful or so of matelote sauce, work in jib. of sugar boiled to caramel and afterwards dissolved in J pint of red wine, and boil up once more; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a little mushroom essence or ketchup. Pour this over the fish, and serve. (2) Scale and clean a large Carp and cut it up into thickish slices, put these into a saucepan with a large lump of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste; pour over a little more than 1 breakfast-cupful of port or other red wine, and boil for five minutes over a clear fire. Set fire to 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour it over the fish, and let it remain until the flame is extinguished. Put a few small mush- rooms, onions, and artichoke bottoms into a frying-pan with butter, and brown them. Place the slices of Carp on a dish, and garnish with the onions, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms, interspersed with small pieces of fried bread. Pour the liquor over the fish, and serve hot. Carp a la Paysanne.—Prepare a vegetable julienne (made of carrots, onion, and celery-root cut in pieces, but not too thin), put it in a stewpan with a little butter or oil, and fry them over a slow fire; but when only half done, add some raw mushrooms, two tomatoes with the seeds extracted, a clove of garlic, and, lastly, two medium-sized river Carp cut into thick pieces; add seasoning and a pinch of saffron, pour in white wine to half the height of the fish, put the pan on a brisk fire, and boil until done. Reduce the stock to half its original bulk. Next prepare some bread croutons fried in oil, place the Carp on them, and pour over the vegetables and fish-stock. Carp Boiled in Beer.—Put a few thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a fish-kettle and sprinkle over a mixture ofrcarrots, onions, shallots, and sweet herbs, all finely-chopped. Clean and wash a Carp, wipe it dry, place it on the top of the mixture in the kettle, sprinkle over a little salt, pour in beer to about three-parts the height of the fish, cover over with a sheet of greased paper, put the kettle in a moderate oven and cook for half-an-hour; then turn the fish over, and boil again until it is done. Take out the Carp carefully, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, skim off all the fat, and put it on the fire; as soon as the liquor boils sprinkle in a handful or so of stale breadcrumbs, or sufficient to make it quite thick, stir well off the fire, pass it through a sieve over the Carp, and serve. Lettuces, mushrooms, onions, or fish quenelles may be used for garnish. Carp rorcemeat.—Rub through a fine sieve lib. of cooked Carp- flesh ; mix in lOoz. of butter, and an equal quantity of bread panada, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and work in two eggs and a little reduced veloutd sauce. When well incor- porated, it is ready for use. Carp Pie.—Prepare and clean a Carp and cut it up. Take a good-sized pie-dish, put a layer of butter at the bottom, and then put in the Carp, adding 2 handfuls each of capers, well-washed currants, a few cloves, a little mace, and nutmeg; then mix a little salt with some butter, and put it over them; cover the dish over with paste, make a hole at the top, pour in some white wine, and bake in a moderate oven till done. It may be served either hot or cold. Carp Stewed in Beer.—Take a medium-sized Carp, scale, clean, and cut it into two pieces. Take each half and cut it transversely into slices, taking away as much of the bone as Carp—continued. possible. Should the roe be soft, blanch it separately. Next take a flat stewpan and put some butter at the bottom, then a layer of onions sliced, and put in (on top of the onions) the Carp, keeping the pieces side by side, having also removed the gall stone, and cut the head into two pieces. Sprinkle over some salt and chopped celery, and add a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, a piece of gingerbread about as large as the hand cut into small dice, peppercorns and cloves to taste. Then pour in sufficient of any light kind of beer (in Germany weissbier or white beer is used) to moisten it. Put the stewpan on a sharp fire and let the liquid boil up for seven or eight minutes, then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and finish cooking. Take ont the pieces of Carp, and arrange them on a dish with the blanched soft roes; skim the fat off the sauce (which should be rather thick), and pour it through a sieve over the fish. Christmas Carp in Poland.—The fish cooked in this way is the traditional dish of the feast celebrated on Christmas eve by the Poles and Italians. Take a good-sized live fish, and run a knife through the head to let it bleed, catching the blood in a basin; then remove the scales and clean the fish thoroughly, putting the soft roe in vinegar and water to blanch. Cut the fish up into equal pieces. Take a stewpan, cover the bottom with a layer of sliced onions and parsley roots, and put the fish in upon this, salting it a little, and adding sprigs of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, some peppercorns and cloves, and pouring in (to about half the height of the fish) a mixture of half white wine and half hydromel (honey wine or mead). Put the pan on a brisk fire, and boil for ten minutes, then remove it to a moro moderate one to finish cooking. When the Carp is done, take it out, strain the stock into another stewpan, remove the fat, and boil again, thickening with a small piece of kneaded butter. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, then pass it through a sieve, and add two lemons (without the peel), cut in slices, 1 teacupful of ground almonds, and a similar quantity of currants well-washed in warm water, and boiled for a minute or two in white wine. Let it bubble twice, and then add the blood diluted with a little vinegar. Put the Carp on a dish, pour over the sauce, place the roes round it, and serve. Fisherman's Carp.—Take two middling-sized Carp, and scale and clean them; then cut them up transversely into pieces. Have ready a large bowl, wider than it is high, and place in it two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a piece of dry, bitter orange- peel, and a few peppercorns and cloves ; put the pieces of fish in this, and add sufficient red wine to cover. Place the bowl on the fire, and boil quickly, so that when the Carp is done the liquor will be reduced to one-half its original quantity. Take three or four large onions, cut them in slices, and fry in oil until of a nice light colour, then sprinkle over a little flour, add the stock slowly, and let it boil gently until the onions are done. Add the pieces of Carp, simmer for ten minutes longer, and then add a little vinegar to the sauce. Serve all on a dish. Forcemeat Carp a l’Aacienne.—Take a good-sized Carp, scale it, and remove all the flesh from the bones; then cut off the head and tail, leaving about lin. of the bone on each so as to fix them in the forcemeat. Make a forcemeat of the flesh rubbed through a sieve, to every pound of it add lOoz. each of bread and bread panada, season with salt and pepper, add two eggs and some reduced veloute sauce maigre thickened with an egg, and mix all well in a mortar. Poach a small piece of this forcemeat in water, and if it be too stiff add a little more sauce. Sufficient forcemeat must be made to replace the body of the Carp. Cut a slice of bread, lin. thick, 4in. wide, and of the length intended for the forcemeat Carp ; then make a ragout of Carp roes, mushrooms, truffles, and crayfish tails, mixed in Espagnole sauce stiffly reduced, with Madeira; put the slice of bread on a dish, with the head and tail of the fish at either end. Take the forcemeat and work it into the shape of the fish ; when it is the correct shape, take a little of the centre out with a gravy-spoon and fill the hollow with some of the ragout, cover it over with force- meat lin. thick, smooth the Carp over with a knife, brush it over with egg, make marks in the forcemeat with a spoon to represent scales, and poach it in the oven. Place the remainder of the ragout on the dish on each side of the Carp, and serve. Fried Carp. — Scale and remove the gills of a small Carp weighing about 1 Jib. or 21b., slit the back the whole length,301 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details resoectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. not cutting- quite through, take away the inside, and preserve the roe. Put the roe and Carp in milk, and let them steep for a few minutes ; then drain them, sprinkle over a little salt, sift some flour over, put them in a frying-pan with hot fat, and fry until crisp and a pale brown colour —say about ten minutes. Spread a napkin over a dish, put the Carp on it, and place the roe on the top of the fish. Surround the dish with fried parsley and a lemon cut in halves for garnish, and serve. Fried Carp a l’Allemande.—Clean and prepare a Carp as for Carp en Matelote, but cutting it up in smaller pieces ; put them into a marinade for fish, and let them remain for an hour. Take them out, remove every particle of the marinade, flour them well, dip them into egg and then into breadcrumbs; put the larger pieces first into the frying-basket, and fry them in boiling fat, then fry the smaller pieces. When all are done, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, dust them over with salt, and squeeze over a little lemon-juice. Garnish the dish with halves of lemons and fried parsley, and serve. The fish should be replaced as nearly as possible in its original shape. Marinaded Carp.—Take a large-sized Carp, clean and cut it into thick slices or steaks; then take a stewpan, put the pieces in, and add the juice of a lemon, some sweet basil, a few cloves, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. A little vinegar may be used in place of the lemon-juice. Mix all well together with a spoon, so that the pickle will enter the fish and distribute its flavour. An hour before wanted remove the Carp, place it on a strainer to drain, then dry it, sprinkle over a little flour, and fry to a light brown colour. Put the pieces on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. The pieces of Carp may be also dipped in egg-and-breadcrumbs, or in batter, and then fried, but in either case should be three-parts cooked in the marinade first. Matelote of Carp and Eel.—Scale and clean two Carp, having one male and one female, take out the entrails, cut off the fins and tips of the tails, and remove the ears and yellow stones from the heads. The roe and milt should be prepared and cooked separately. Skin a large eel, hold it over the fire to stiffen it, chop off the head and tail, remove the entrails, and cut it up into pieces; put these into a saucepan, with a few onions and carrots cut in slices, one or two shallots, a little each of thyme, spice, salt and pepper, a clove of garlic, a few sprigs of parsley, and pour in 2 pints of champagne. Place the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the eel is about half done; then add the female carp. Boil for a few minutes longer, and when that is about half done add the male Carp, and cook until all are done, then take out the fish and keep them hot. A few minutes will suffice to cook the Carp. In the meantime, put thirty small onions into a frying-pan with a little butter, brown them, take them out, strain in the liquor from the fish, thicken with flour, boil for a few minutes, strain into another saucepan, add the onions and a few button mush- rooms, and reduce the liquor over a quick fire. Put the fish (both Carp and pieces of eel) on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add a few artichoke bottoms to it, boil for a few minutes, pour it all over the fish, and serve with the roes placed on pieces of toast. Pickled Carp.—Clean a Carp, making as small an opening as possible, tie up the head, put the fish in a fish-kettle, pour over boiling vinegar, and after a few minutes add 1 tumblerful of red wine and a seasoning of two carrots and three onions cut into slices, and a small quantity each of thyme, sage, parsley, laurel-leaves, cloves, and garlic. Set the kettle on the fire, and simmer gently for about an hour. Let the fish remain in this until it is quite cold, when it will be ready to be served. Boasted Carp.—Take a Carp, draw it, remove the gills and roe, but not the scales, and wash it thoroughly. Then prepare a stuffing of 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, 1 teacupful of ground almonds, 1 teacupful of currants, 1 teacupful of cream, grated nutmeg, yolks of two new laid eggs, mixed candied peel, a little lemon, and salt to taste ; put this in the fish, but not to fill it too full, neither should the stuffing be too stiff. Place the fish on a grating over a baking-tin, put it in the oven, and roast. Turn the tin over. Let the gravy drop into the tin, but do not baste. When the fish is done, put grating and all on a dish, and garnish with slices of lemon, potatoes, and mushrooms. Add some lemon- or orange-juice to Carp—continued. the gravy, mix in a little butter, and a dust of cinnamon. Strain, and serve over the fish. Scalloped Carp.—Prepare a quenelle mixture of cold Carp and eel-flesh cut up into pieces and warmed up in a white thickening; turn the mixture into shells, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, brown them in the oven or with a salamander, and serve on a napkin. Stewed Carp.—(1) Take a large Carp, cut out the gills, but do not remove the tongue ; then make as small an opening as possible in the under-edge to empty it, and wash it out thoroughly. Boil £ pint of vinegar, and when boiling pour it over the fish that the scales may come off easily. Wrap the Carp in a cloth, and stew it in a court-bouillon. When done, drain it, and serve with anchovy sauce and capers, or without sauce after soup. (2) Scale and clean a Carp and cut it into steaks. Make a brown roux with butter and flour, and put a few small onions in it to brown; then add a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, and a few button-mushrooms, adding sufficient good broth and white wine to moisten it. Put the pieces of Carp in this, place the pan on the fire, and boil briskly. Then lay some pieces of toasted or fried bread on a dish, put the pieces of Carp on them, and pour over the sauce. (3) Scale and clean a Carp, dust it over with flour, and brown it in a frying-pan with beef-dripping or suet. Take it out, drain off all the fat, put it into a saucepan, and add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls each of lemon pickle, walnut ketchup, and browning, a small quantity of mushroom powder, an onion stuck with cloves, a little horseradish, and pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of water and port wine. Cover over the saucepan, place it on the fire, and cook gently until the fish is done and the liquor reduced to about one-half its original quantity. Take out the Carp, put it carefully on a dish, add a little butter rolled in flour to thicken the liquor, boil it for a few minutes, pour it through a strainer over the fish, and serve very hot. (4) Clean two Carp, put them into a deep pan with two or three sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs composed of parsley, basil, marjoram, and thyme, three or four cloves, and a small quantity of mace; dust them over with salt and pepper, and pour 1 pint of vinegar over them. Let the fish steep in this marinade for an hour or two. Chop the livers very fine, put them in a large saucepan with lqt. of white wine and lqt. of veal broth ; put in the fish with their marinade, and stew the whole gently until tender. When cooked, take the fish carefully out of the saucepan and keep them hot. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and mix with it the yolks of four eggs beaten with 1 teacupful of thick cream and 2oz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table- spoonful of flour. Stir the sauce over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick, but it must not boil again, or the eggs will curdle ; then move it off the fire, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. The roe of the Carp should be fried in butter until lightly browned, or, if preferred, it can be merely boiled. Put the Carp on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with the roe and cut lemon, and serve. Stewed Carp a la Boi.—Scald a good-sized Carp to remove the scales, or do this with a knife, commencing at the tail end, passing it between the scales and the skin, thus taking them off. Cut off the gills, remove the entrails by making an incision 2in. or 3in. in length along the belly, and drain out all the blood. Care must be taken not to break the gall. Put the fish into a bowl of cold water and soak it; then chop off its fins, sprinkle the Carp over with salt, and let it remain for an hour. Wash off all the salt and wipe it, stuff it with Carp or other fish forcemeat flavoured with essence of mushrooms, sew up the belly, and tie up the head ; then put it on a drainer, and cover it with more of the forcemeat to about lin. thick, leaving the head uncovered; put it in a fish-kettle with a strong mirepoix moistened with 3 pints of champagne and 2 pints of stock, all squeezed through a cloth, put a buttered paper over the fish, bring the liquor to the boil, and cook very slowly for two hours. Take it out when done, put it on a dish over croutons of fried bread, and serve with fish sauce. Carp’s Boes.—These are considered by Carp-eaters a very great delicacy; but very much of their quality302 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ebe., referred to, see under their special heads. Carp—continued. to the ordinary epicure depends upon the mode in which they are cooked. The following receipts can be relied upon as giving the very best results attainable in those cases where the roe (which is best soft) is cooked separate from the fish. Boiled Carp Soft-Roes.—Remove the roes from the fish, and cleanse them of all their blood; then steep them in cold water until they are quite white, drain them, and put them in a stewpan with cold salted water and a little vinegar, and boil until they are done. Drain them, and put them into some fish consomme or general stock. Boudins of Carp served with Supreme Sauce.—Prepare some forcemeat of Carp, making it rather stiffer than is generally used for quenelles. Fry a chopped onion in butter without colouring it, then mix it with the forcemeat. Chop some truffles and some cooked fillets of chicken and tongue. Boil some bechamel sauce till stiffly reduced, then put in the chopped truffles and fillets, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, and take the saucepan off. Put some small equal quantities of forcemeat on buttered strips of paper about 3 tin. long and 2jin. wide, make a hollow by pressing the forcemeat or boudins in the centre, and put in each a small quantity of the salpii^on of chopped truffles, &c., without quite filling them; then cover that completely with forcemeat. Prepare some Carp-roes for garnish, and reduce some veloute sauce maigre with some essence of mushrooms. Put the boudins in a deep frying- or saute-pan with a little stock, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, put the roes in the centre, pour the reduced sauce over them, and serve. Fried Carp’s Roes.—Clean the required number of very fresh Carp’s roes, put them into a bowl of water, and let them soak for several hours, changing the water frequently. Take them out, put them in a saucepan with a little boiling water and vinegar, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil them for a few minutes; take them out, drain them, dip them into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good brown. Place them on a cloth to drain, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Scalloped Carp’s Roe.—(1) Trim, clean, and blanch a Carp’s roe ; put it into a saucepan with salted water and vinegar, and boil until quite done. Take it out, drain, chop up small, put into another saucepan with a little white thickening and white wine, pour in a little of the water in which a few mushrooms have previously been boiled, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor thickens add the boiled mushrooms cut in slices, together with a few cooked crayfish tails. When the whole is done, take out the bunch of herbs, mix in a large lump of butter, put the mixture into scallop- shells, cover over with grated fried bread or crust, place the shells in a moderate oven, and brown the surface. Take them out when done, and serve. (2) Take some soft roes of Carp, prepare them as for Boiled Carp Soft-roes, and cut them into small dice. Prepare some veloute sauce, together with some essence of mushrooms, adding a little butter to thicken, and then put in the small dice. Fill seme table or scallop shells (coquilles) with the meat, sprinkle over fried breadcrumbs, put in the oven to warm a little, and then serve. CARRAGEEN.—Amongst the edible seaweeds Carra- geen, or Irish sea-moss, Chondrus crispus (see Fig. 341), holds pride of place. It grows from 2in. to 12in. long, and is cai'tilaginous, flexible, and reddish-brown in colour. As physicians have strongly recommended its use to invalids with delicate digestions, it has assumed an im- portant position amongst foods. Various preparations in which Carrageen is concerned have appeared under as many different names, hut without seeming to take a very strong hold of public favour. The following receipts are, however, very much approved. Carrageen Blanc mange.—(1) Take lqt. of milk, 1 level table- spoonful of Carrageen farina, £ teaspoonful of salt, 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. C ar r ageen—continued. Put the milk in a double boiler, and sprinkle the farina into it, stirring all the while. Let this heat slowly. When it boils up and looks white, add the sugar, salt, and flavouring. Strain, turn into a mould that has been dipped in cold water, and set away to harden, which will take about three hours. The blanc-mange is ready to serve as soon as cold. (2) From lqt. of rich unskimmed milk take i pint, and add to it 2oz. of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, half a nut- meg, a large stick of cinnamon broken up, and eight or nine blades of mace. Set this in a closed pan over bright coals, and boil it for half-an-hour. In the meantime, wash through two or three cold waters )- handful of Carrageen (too much of it will give an unpleasant taste to the blanc-mange), and add to the la pints of cold milk. When it is sufficiently flavoured, stir in the boiled milk, adding gradually |lb. of caster sugar, and mix the whole well. Set it over the fire, and boil quickly for five minutes ; then strain it into a jug, wet a mould (or teacups will do) with cold water, put the blanc-mange into it, and leave it undisturbed until it is hard. It is well to remem- ber that after washing the seaweed it should be drained well. A little rose- or peach-water, maraschino or kirschenwasser improves the flavour. Fig. 341. Two Kinds of Carrageen. (3) Take 1 teacupful of Carrageen, lqt. of milk, 1 salt-spoon- ful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen minutes, then pick over, wash, tie in a net bag, and put it into a double boiler with the milk. Boil until the milk will thicken if dropped on a cold plate ; then add the salt, strain it, and flavour, moulding in small teacups or in egg-shells. Break off a piece as large as a half- penny piece on one end of the egg-shell, pour out the egg, rinse the shells, stand them upright in a pan of meal, and fill with the blanc-mange. Serve blanc-mange with sugar and cream, also with apple or grape jelly ; or put half a peach, or any candied fruit, in the bottom of the cup before filling. Carrageen Chocolate.— Put loz. of well-washed and soaked Carrageen into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and bring it to the boil. Pour 1 teacupful of cold milk into a basin, and mix in loz. of grated chocolate; turn this into a saucepan containing 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, and boil for about five minutes. Add the two boiling mixtures together, strain them, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and serve in glasses while quite warm. Carrageen Farina.—Put lib. of Carrageen in water, and let it macerate to extract the bitterness. Take it out, drain it dry, and boil in a saucepan with a little water for an hour, pass it through a fine sieve, let it settle, and decant it; then add lib. of caster sugar, and evaporate the moisture of303 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Carrageen—continued. it by putting it over a gentle heat, stirring constantly. When quite dry it may be reduced to a powder, in which state it is portable, and readily mixed with water for invalid use. Carrageen Water.—Put loz. of Carrageen into a bowl of water, wash it well, put it into another bowl with 1 pint of water, and let it soak for ten minutes. Turn it with the water into a saucepan, add double the quantity more of water, a stick of cinnamon, and 2oz. of sugar, and boil over a moderate fire until the whole has the consistency of cream. Pass it through a fine sieve, add more sugar to moisten if desired, and serve while quite warm. CARROTS (Fr. Carottes; Ger. Carotten).—This famous vegetable was not known in Great Britain until it was introduced to us by the Flemings in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. The ancient Greeks used it as a vegetable before the Christian era, and to them it was known as stapliylinos, frequent mention being made of it by old authors. In the reigns of James I. and Charles I. ladies were in the habit of decorating their head-dresses with the leaves, which are exceedingly delicate, feathery, and fern-like; indeed, the leaves of the Carrot are frequently used by cooks to decorate a table. The tops of the Carrot are cut off about lin. below the crest, and stood in a saucer of water. In due time a very ornamental tuft of fine leaves will grow out and spring up, requiring but very little further ingenuity to adapt them. As to the nutritive value of the Carrot, considerable difference of opinion exists amongst chemists, it being generally ad- mitted that it is less nutritious than the potato; but as a flavouring vegetable we have apparently none other of such widely accepted utility. Scarce a soup, ragout, hash, or savoury of any kind would be considered perfect unless the flavour of the Carrot entered into its com- binations ; and so accustomed are we now to its use, that boiled beef without Carrots would be an unwelcome dish. Fig. 342. Early Short-horn Fig. 343. Late Long-horn Carrot. Carrot. Sir Humphry Davy tells us concerning the Carrot that the greater part of the alimentary portion of it consists of saccharine matter, which may in a considerable degree account for its antiseptic qualities. The quantity of nutritive matter is nearly 10 per cent, in the whole weight of Carrot, being 98 parts in a 1000, and of these three are starch or mucilage, and the remaining 95 sac- charine matter. The quantity of ready-formed saccharine matter in Carrots is much greater than in any of the cerealia, being 2 b per cent, more than in barley, and about six times more than the quantity contained in potatoes. It is presumed, therefore, that Carrots are much better adapted than the latter for the distillery. Dr. Hunter, in the “ Georgical Essays,” details experiments made to prepare from Carrots a beverage resembling beer, and subsequently a spirituous liquor. The former proved un- successful ; but the result of the latter was, according to the doctor’s opinion, very encouraging. “ From a gross calculation,” he concludes, “ I am induced to think that a good acre of Carrots manufactured in this manner will leave a profit of forty pounds after deducting the land- lord’s rent, the cost of cultivation, distillation, and other incidental expenses. In this calculation I presume that Carrots - continued. the spirit is worth six shillings per gallon, and not excised.” This is, perhaps, rather an exaggerated state- ment, though it has been found by other experiments that 18 tons, the produce of one acre, will yield lOOgalls. of proof spirit—a larger product than that obtained from an acre of barley; while the refuse supplies a greater quantity of food for hogs. There are two kinds of Carrots usually sold in our vegetable-markets, being in perfection at different times of the year; they are the Early Short Horn (see Fig. 342), and the Late Long Horn (see Fig. 343). For forcing and early crops the Common Early Horn, Early French Forcing, Early Nantes, and Early Short Horn are the more famous; but for main or later crops, the Altrin- cham, James’s Intermediate, Long Horn, and Long Red Surrey are more often met with. But as cooks are not much interested in horticulture beyond judging of the quality, it will be sufficient to refer to early Carrots as short and pale, and later Carrots as longer and deeper in hue. Boiled Carrots.—Wash and scrape two large Carrots, put them in boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Cut them into Jin. squares, or into fancy shapes, with a vegetable-scoop ; put over the fire in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until the mixture bubbles, then gradually stir into it 1 pint of boiling milk, and let the sauce thus made boil once; season it with 1 teaspoonful of salt, i salt- spoonful of pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg. Heat the Carrots in this sauce, and serve them. Boiled Carrots can also be served with salt, pepper, and butter, or with some chopped parsley, or with white sauce containing the yolk of an egg, care being taken not to boil the egg. Cold boiled Carrots are nice cut in slices and fried in butter. Boiled Carrots served with Brown Sauce.—Thoroughly wash some young Carrots, cut them squarely across the top, put them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil until tender. Dry the tops that have been cut off the Carrots, put them into a frying-pan in which loz. or more of butter has been melted, and fry them over a brisk fire until brown, turning them often. Allow for 1 bunch of Carrots, 1 break- fast-cupful of brown stock, 1 table-spoonful of flour, and b Fig. 344. Boiled Carrots served with Brown Sauce. table-spoonful of ketchup. Put the flour into a small sauce- pan, pour in the stock, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put the browned tops into the sauce, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it for five minutes longer. When the Carrots are tender, take them carefully out of the water so as not to break them, then rub off lightly with a towel the thin outer skin. Arrange the Carrots in an upright position on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve without delay. See Fig. 344. Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Scrape some Carrots, cut them in halves lengthwise, and boil them in salted water. When they are tender take them out of the water, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, a little pepper, salt, and sugar, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. Toss them about over a moderate fire for a few minutes, then turn them into a hot dish, and serve. Carrots a la Dlenag£re.—Peel some young Carrots, and leave them in cold water for a few minutes ; then put them (thinly sliced) in a stewpan half-full of good broth, season with salt, pepper, mace, and a bouquet of sweet herbs and parsley, and stew until they are tender. When done, put them on a dish. Mix some flour with a little of the liquor in a cup, stir it in with the other, and add a piece of butter and a little browning. When thick, pour it over the Carrots, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 304 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Carrots—continued. Carrots a la Nivernaise.—Cut off the ends of some small Carrots, and turn them evenly to the shape of olives, ljin. by fin.; cook and glaze them as directed for Carrots for Garnish. Carrots a l’Orleans.—Take a few young Carrots, turn them with a knife to equal sizes, cut them in slices about |in. thick, and blanch them well; then lay them on a sieve to drain. Put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little broth, and let them boil over a quick fire. When reduced to a glaze, add a piece of fresh butter the size of a fowl’s egg, and a little salt, tossing freely. Be careful that the butter covers the Carrots when you serve them, as no loose sauce should be visible. Carrots a la Paulette. —■ Scrape and wash the required number of Carrots, put them into a bowl of boiling water, and scald them. Take them out, drain, cut up into slices, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a little butter in it, and boil until they are done and quite tender. Put a little butter and flour into a frying-pan, cook for a few minutes, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and add the yolks of two eggs, a little lemon-juice, and some rich stock ; then put in the Carrots, and toss the pan over the fire so as to cook them without boiling. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Carrots and Asparagus.—German Style.—Scrape three or four dozen Carrots of an equal size, blanch them for a few minutes, drain them, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter on a moderate fire, adding a little salt and pepper, and thickening with a little veloute sauce. Let the broth simmer for two or three minutes, and then add an equal volume of sprue asparagus cut up in pieces lin. long, blanched in salted water, and well drained. Season, and mix up with the vege- tables a few little bits of butter. Carrot Cakes.—Scrape and well wash a dozen or so large red Carrots, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them. Cut out the hearts and dry them, rub them through a fine sieve into another saucepan, dry them over the fire, and keep hot. Put two eggs into a saucepan with a little salt and as much flour as they will take, mix in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and stir well over the fire until the smell of the flour has evaporated. Add loz. of butter and the Carrot puree, and mix in a small quantity of sugared orange-flower leaves, 12oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of warmed butter, and the yolks of ten eggs and whites of four, mixing one well in before another is added. When these are thoroughly mixed, add the well-whipped whites of six eggs and sufficient flour to make it of the required consistence, put the mixture into a buttered tin or mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. Turn the cake out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Carrot Cheese-Cakes. — Mash a medium-sized Carrot that has been boiled tender, and pass it through a fine hair sieve ; melt loz. of butter, thoroughly wash and dry 2 dessert- spoonfuls of currants, and mix them with the Carrot; add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of fresh curd, grate in half a nutmeg, and mix all with a well-beaten egg. Grease some patty-pans, line them with a good puff paste, half fill them with the Carrot preparation, and bake them till the paste is a light brown. These are considered very nice. Carrots with Cream. — Cut some large tender Carrots (pre- viously peeled) into dice, and blanch them for two minutes in salted water. Drain them, fry in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and sugar; when almost dry, sprinkle over them a little flour, and pour in some good broth to three-fourth their height, stirring until the broth boils; then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer until the Carrots are done. Beat the yolks of a few eggs with a little fresh cream, and add to them a little grated nutmeg and a piece of butter; stir this in with the Carrots, and serve. Carrots with Fine Herbs.—Scrape and wash 21b. or 31b. of Carrots, cut them into thick slices ; put them into a sauce- pan with a lump of salt and plenty of cold water, and boil until tender. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in a small finely-chopped onion, and toss it about over the fire until browned. Pour Carrots—continued. 1 pint of water or clear broth over the onion and boil it for five or six minutes. Drain the Carrots and put them with the onion; add about 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and boil for three minutes longer. Take the Carrots off the fire, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Carrots in Flemish Style. —(1) Scald l^lb. of young Carrots in boiling water for five minutes; when they are cool rub off the skin with a cloth, slice them about jin. thick, put them into a saucepan that holds about 2qts., add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 wine- glassful of water; put the lid on, and let them simmer for twenty minutes, tossing them about now and then so that they all cook alike. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a wine- glassful of cream. When the Carrots are done, stir in the eggs and cream and a pat of butter, and boil it until the eggs are thick. Chop about 1 table-spoonful of parsley, mix it with the Carrots, and serve. (2) Put half-a-dozen or so of good Carrots into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite tender; chop them up into small squares, put them into a saucepan with six small onions, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper, pour over 3 teacupfuls of rich gravy, and stew them for a few minutes. Turn the whole, when done, out on to a dish, and serve hot. Carrot Fritters.—(1) Beat a large boiled Carrot into a pulp, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of grated breadcrumbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, stirring in two well-beaten eggs. Put a piece of lard in a frying-pan, and when this is hot shape the mixture into fritters and fry them. When they are done, put them on a hot dish, and serve with brown sauce. (2) Peel and boil three large Carrots; when tender, drain, put them into a basin, and mash them with a wooden spoon Beat six eggs, mix them with the Carrots, also 1 teacupful of flour, about 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and sweeten to taste. Beat until all the ingredients are well mixed. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when it is boiling drop in the Carrot mixture in small quantities with a table-spoon; fry until nicely and equally browned, then take them out of the fat and lay them on paper near the fire to drain off as much of the fat as possible. Arrange the fritters on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over them, strew caster sugar over, and serve. Carrots for Garnish.—Blanch some young Carrots in boiling water, rub their skins off, and turn them with a knife to equal- sized pear shapes ; then drain them, put them into a saucepan with some chicken consomme, add a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and boil till they are done. Reduce the liquor so as to glaze the Carrots, and serve. Carrots and Green Peas.—Alsatian Style.—Scrape three dozen young Carrots, and blanch them for a few minutes in salted water; drain them, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, toss about for a few minutes over a steady fire, add a little broth to half cook them, and season with a little salt and pepper; this done, add 1 j- pints of green peas, a bunch of parsley, and 1 pinch of sugar. Put the lid on the stewpan, and simmer until the peas are done, then adding 1 table- spoonful of butter. When taken off the fire, put in 2 table- spoonfuls of good raw cream, and another piece of butter; dish them up on a hot dish, and serve. Carrot Jam.—(1) Wash some Carrots, scrape, and cut them into rounds, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water, cover the pan over, place it on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until done; then pass it through a fine sieve and weigh, to every lib. of pulp adding fib. of sugar ; place this in the pan again, boil slowly, and skim well, and to every lib. of Carrots add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, the peel of half a lemon, and a liqueur-glassful of brandy. When done, put it into jars, tie it down, and it will last for years. (2) Wash and scrape some Carrots, cut the outside red parts into pieces, and boil them until they are quite soft; then rub them through a hair sieve. To every lib. of pulp put lib. of preserving sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time, and removing the scum as it comes to the top. WhenTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 305 uces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Carrots—continued. it is cold, add 41b. of bitter almonds blanched and finely chopped, the grated rind and juice of four lemons, and 4 tum- blerful of brandy, mixing all thoroughly together. Put the jam into jars, cover the tops with prepared paper, and tie tightly down. Carrot Marmalade.—Put the thinly-pared rind of four lemons in a small quantity of water, and boil them until soft. Peel 21b. of large Carrots, put them in a saucepan with water to cover, and boil until tender (they must not be overcooked, or they will break). When cooked, drain the Carrots and lemon-peel and cut them into thin strips. Put the water in which the lemon- peel was boiled in a preserving-pan with ljlb. of lump sugar, and boil until little bubbles rise to the top. Then put in the shred Carrots and lemon-peel, and boil them until reduced to a thick pulp, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent burning at the bottom of the pan. Great care must be taken with this, as if the marmalade is at all burnt it will be unfit for eating. Fill glasses or jars with the marmalade, and leave it until quite cold before covering them. Carrot Pie.—Peel, wash, and slice some Carrots lengthwise, and boil them ; when they are partly cooked, strain them. Put some puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, put in the Carrots, season with a little salt and pepper, pour a little water over them, cover with some more puff paste, slightly moistening the edge so that the two j>astes may adhere to each other, and bake in a slow oven until a light brown. Carrot Plum Pudding-.—Mix with 41b. of flour 41b. of cold boiled potatoes that have been well mashed, 41b. of sugar, 41b. of chopped suet, 41b. of raw grated Carrots, 41b. of currants washed and dried, 41b of stoned raisins, loz. of chopped candied peel, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed spices ; mix thoroughly together, but do not add any water, as the Carrots will moisten the sugar sufficiently. Turn the mixture into a pudding-basin which has been greased, cover the top with a floured pudding-cloth, tie it down, and boil for six hours. Serve with brandy or wine sauce. Carrot Pudding-.—(1) Put sufficient Carrots into a saucepan so that when they have been boiled and scraped there will be Jib.; put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of sugar, pound them well, and make into a paste with Jib. of butter slightly melted, ten well-beaten eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, and a little lemon-juice. Line a pie-dish with some good puff paste, put in the Carrot mixture, place the dish in the oven, and bake for an hour ; then serve. (2) Grate Jib. of Carrots and lib. of breadcrumbs and mix up with the whites of eight eggs, 2oz. of butter, J pint of cream or milk, J pint of wine and rose-water in equal proportions, spicing and sweetening to taste. Lay a puff paste over the dish, bake for an hour, and sift sugar over it. (3) Take Jib. of grated Carrots, Jib. of flour, Jib. of bread- crumbs, Jib. of suet, Jib. of currants washed and dried, the grated rind of half a lemon, and 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle. Mix all well together with just enough milk to make it into a stiff dough. Boil it in a mould for an-hour-and-a half, being careful that it boils quickly all the time. See that the water is boiling fast when the pudding is put in, and should the water reduce much while the pudding is boiling, replenish with boiling water from a kettle kept boiling for the purpose. Carrot Puree.—(1) Steam four medium-sized finely-chopped Carrots for fifteen minutes in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter; then moisten with lqt. of white broth, adding a teacupful of raw rice, a bouquet garni, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 tea- spoonful of pepper. Cook thoroughly for thirty minutes, then rub it through a fine sieve. Finish with a teacupful of cream, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of small fried croutons. (2) Scrape and wash lib. of fresh young Carrots, cut them into slices, and put in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter. Toss them about over a brisk fire until they begin to brown ; then put in an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a bay-leaf, that should be tied together with a small sprig each of thyme and parsley, and pour over sufficient water to cover. Boil the Carrots until tender, then turn them on to a fine wire sieve, remove the onion and bunch of herbs, and rub the Carrots through the sieve with a wooden spoon. Return the mashed Carrots to the saucepan with a small piece of butter, and keep them stewing slowly at the edge of the fire for an For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carrots—continued. hour or two—the longer the better. Season the puree to taste. If too thick, a small quantity of broth may be mixed with it. Serve it very hot. Carrot Puree 'with Rice. — Mince ljlb. of fresh, tender Carrots, and fry them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and 1 pinch of sugar ; moisten them with a little broth, put the cover on the stewpan, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it boil until the broth is reduced, stirring the Carrots about occasionally. Have two or three potatoes boiled in salted water, and when done drain them and dry in the oven ; then mix them with the Carrots, and pass all together through a sieve. Put this puree into a stewpan, add slowly 2qts. of good broth, and stir it; when it boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes. Season it with salt and pepper, skim all the scum off, thicken with three yolks of eggs, pour it through a fine sieve into a soup-tureen, and add to it 4 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice. Carrot-Puree Soup.—Mince very finely all the red part of some Carrots, fry it with butter, and finish cooking by adding a little broth ; when done, reduce the broth to a glaze, stir in 6 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and strain through a sieve. Mix with this puree 3 pints of white broth, then pass it all through a sieve into a saucepan, stand it on the fire, and stir it until it begins to bubble; then move it on one side of the stove, and leave it for an hour to settle. Skim off all the fat from the broth, and thicken it with a liaison of four yolks of eggs diluted with cream and passed through a sieve, and put the soup over the fire again, stirring in a few table-spoonfuls of blanched nouilles and a piece of butter. When the soup is hot, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Carrot Salad.—Boil some Carrots, and, when cold, slice them and put them on a dish. Make a salad-dressing, cut some hard- boiled eggs in halves, and put them round the dish. Chop somo parsley fine and garnish the dish with this, some capers, and chopped olives, and pour the dressing over before serving. Carrots Sautes a la Creme.—Pare off the ends of six good- sized Carrots, scrape them neatly, wash thoroughly, and cut in rounds Jin. thick ; put these into a saucepan with white broth or salted water to cover, place the lid on the saucepan, and lot them cook for thirty minutes. Remove, drain, and place them in a saute-pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk, and season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg. After ten minutes, place them in a hot dish, sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. Carrot Soup.—(1) Scrape six large Carrots, cut off the red parts, and put them into a stewpan; slice two onions, cut up one head of celery and Jib. or so of raw ham, and put them in the stewpan with the Carrots, then add 1 piled table-spoonful of butter, put the lid on, and simmer over the fire for ten minutes ; next add lqt. of stock, and let all simmer until the vegetables are tender. Drain the vegetables well, pound them in a mortar, put them in the stock they were cooked in, and add another pint; strain this through a fine hair sieve, put it into the stewpan, and stir gently over a moderate fire until it boils ; then move the stewpan to one side, skim off all the fat, and let it simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When ready to serve, add a gill of cream, J teaspoonful of sugar, and a little pepper and salt. (2) Boil four or five good-sized Carrots till tender. Cut up the red part only and rub it through a sieve. Then weigh it, and to Jib. add and stir in, by degrees, lqt. of good stock; season to taste with salt and a little cayenne. Let it boil up, put it into a tureen, and send to table very hot. Servo with bread cut into small square pieces, and fried. Carrots Stewed with Sugar. — Scrape the Carrots, wash them, cut into slices, scald in boiling water for five minutes, and drain them. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, and then put in the Carrots ; moisten them to their height with broth, and season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the Carrots over the fire with a wooden spoon, dredging in at the same time a small quantity of flour. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar ; when the Carrots are tender, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Do not let the liquor boil after the eggs are added. Serve the Carrots very hot. 2 F306 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carrots—continued. Carrots Stewed in Sugar and Cream.—Scrape and clean half-a-dozen or so large, sound Carrots, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are done and nearly all the water is absorbed or evaporated. Mash the Carrots, pour in a little milk, and add 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, a few dried orange-flowers, and a very little sifted crushed loaf sugar ; stir in sufficient eggs to thicken, using three yolks to two whites, and whipping them well with warmed butter. Heat the mixture in the oven until it is of the required consistence, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot with caster sugar sprinkled over. Curried Carrots.—Scrape and clean the required quantity of Carrots, blanch them, dry them, cut them up into slices, put these in a frying-pan with dripping or butter, and fry them; then sprinkle over a little curry powder, and let them remain until it is all absorbed. Put a little curry paste and milk, or rich broth, into a saucepan, and stir well; put the Carrots in this, and simmer gently until they are quite tender, and all the liquor is absorbed. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve with boiled rice as a garnish or in a separate dish. Fried Carrots.—Clean four or five Carrots, cut them up into slices, and blanch them. Take them out, drain them quite dry, put into a frying-pan with a little butter or dripping, and fry until done. Take them out, drain on a cloth, put them in a vegetable-dish, and serve. Glazed Carrots.—Scrape and wash a few young red-coloured Carrots, cut them up into balls or other shapes, put these into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for five or six minutes. Take them out, drain, put them close together into a saucepan with a little butter, pour over sufficient rich gravy or stock to moisten, and dust them over with a little each of mace, sifted crushed loaf sugar, salt, and pepper. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil up, cover the whole over with greased paper, then with the lid, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until the Carrots are quite tender. Boil the liquor quickly for a few minutes, to reduce it, then turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Hashed Carrots.—Scrape and wash a dozen or so young Carrots, put them for a few minutes in boiling water, take them out, and cut up into slices. Put a slice or two of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, add a little chopped shallot and parsley, salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient stock or gravy to moisten. Place the Carrots in this, and cook until they are tender ; then put them on a dish. Reduce the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Mashed Carrots.—Scrape some Carrots, cut them in quarters lengthwise, and boil them till tender in broth. When they are done, strain them, rub through a sieve, and season with pepper and salt, and add a piece of butter. Fill some cups or moulds with the pulp, press it down tightly, and then turn them out. This is a very tasty manner of serving Carrots. Plainly-served Carrots.—Scrape some young Carrots, very lightly boil them until they are tender, and then rub off the skins with a cloth. Put them into the saucepan again with a piece of fresh butter, shake them about over the fire until the butter is melted, and sprinkle in a little finely-chopped parsley and salt. Turn them out on a hot dish, and serve. Preserved Carrots.—-Put lib. of ginger into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until the water is strongly impregnated with it; then add 31b. of Carrots cut into slices, and boil until they are done and quite tender. Take them out with a skimmer, put them into a deep earthenware pan or dish, pour over the ginger-flavoured water, and let them soak for five or six days, stirring constantly. Put 31b. of sugar and 3 break- fast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan with the juice of three lemoDs, the thin rind of four, and a few thin slices of ginger, and boil to a syrup, skimming well. Remove the skin from the Carrots, wipe them on a cloth, and cook in this syrup for about ten minutes; then remove the saucepan from the fire, and set it on one side for six or seven days. Drain off the syrup, and boil it up, adding another 8oz. of sugar; then boil the Carrots in it for another fifteen minutes or a little longer. Put the Carrots carefully into pots or jars, pour the syrup over them, cover the jars over first with paper dipped in brandy and then with coarse paper, put them in a cool dry place, and let them remain until wanted. Carrots—con tinued. Souffle of Carrots. — Make a thick puree of Carrots, but instead of broth use water to boil them in, with plenty of sugar to sweeten thoroughly, ^ table-spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a pat of butter ; let all this boil till very thick, then add the yolks of six eggs, and mix well together. Before serving, beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and add to the Carrots, put on a dish, pop into the oven for a few minutes to warm up, and serve very hot. Stewed Carrots.—(1) Scrape some young Short-horn Carrots (frame-grown ones are the best) and put them into cold water for a few minutes ; then put them into a stewpan, and cover with good well-seasoned beef or veal broth. When the broth boils, remove the lid. and let it boil until the stock is reduced and the Carrots are tender, stirring occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan. When done take the Carrots carefully out, put them into a deep vegetable- dish, and pour the sauce over. (2) Take a bunch of young Carrots, or as many as may be required, turn them (that is, trim them), keeping them in their natural shape, and make them all as near the same size as possible, then boil in water for five minutes. Remove them, place them in a stewpan with a pat of butter, a little salt and sugar, moisten with 1* pints of consomme, and set them upon the stove to cook. When done, boil the liquor down quickly to a glaze, and arrange the dish they are intended to garnish. Stewed Carrots and Green Peas.—Scrape, clean, and blanch the required number of Carrots, cut them up into small cubes or dice, put them into a saucepan with a large lump of butter and a little water, and half cook ; then add an equal bulk of green peas, and cook until they are done. Mix in more butter and a little flour, turn the whole into a vegetable-dish, and serve very hot. Young Carrot Soup.—Put three or four dozen young Carrots of an equal size in a basin, pour boiling water over them, and leave for five or six minutes; this done, drain, rub their skins off, and put them in a saucepan with a pinch of sugar, a little salt, and a small piece of butter, and cover them with broth. Let this mixture boil until the Carrots are done and the broth is reduced to a glaze, then pour into them 3qts. of good vegetable broth, and add a small leaf of chervil. Serve very hot in a soup-tureen. CARTON-PATE.—This is literally “ card-paste,” or paste-board, a paste made with cardboard and other ingredients, such as bole, chalk, glue, and size. Being in its fresh state remarkably plastic and pliable, it is used by cooks and confectioners for moulding, being easier to work, and, when dry, much tougher and more durable than plaster, which has obtained for it the name of carton- pierre, or card-stone. Carton-pate can be purchased of any manufacturer of confectioners’ requirements, or may be prepared as follows: Soak in water 21b. of thick white paper or cardboard trimmings until it is quite soft and pulpy ; then drain off the water, put the paper into a large mortar, and work it well with the pestle. Dissolve -jib. of Scotch glue in J pint of warm water, and mix up with the paper ; then turn it out of the mortar into a large crock, and work in by hand 61b. of Spanish white, softening when required with a little olive oil. This paste can be made quite soft by adding more water or oil should it be required for moulding into depressions. Vases, baskets, cups, and a variety of ornamental vessels can be made from this paste by rolling it out on a floured board, as for any other paste, and working either in, upon, or arqund tin moulds previously lightly oiled, and of the desired shape, then dried until hard in the hot closet. Sugar-icing, gum-paste, and an infinite variety of ornamental material can be worked upon Carton-pate. CARVING.—The mere mention of the word “carving” sets the cook to prick his ears; in it he recognises the bete noir of his existence, the destroyer of his peace of mind and the productions of his skill. What boots the beauty and excellent arrangement of his dishes ! To the eye they are beautiful and grand for the moment, but, there comes the ruthless weapon of the amateur Carver— “ Carver,” forsooth !—and then woe to the works of the307 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carving—continued. cook ! That is not an uncommon fate ; but, happily, the cook’s chefs d’ceuvre are sometimes submitted to the refined treatment of a skilful Carver, and such a one the cook would take to his heart with tears of gratitude, and in an ecstasy of .joy. Too well he knows that good Carvers are scarcer than good cooks, and yet upon the skill of him who serves the viands depends in a marked degree the success of the viand itself. Be the dish never so tasty and ornamental, much of its artistic credit may be lost in the carving. Let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcase fit for hounds. SHAKESrEAB. It is noteworthy that, with the exception of the German kerben, to notch or jag, no other Continental language has a near equivalent to our word; the terms for “to cut,” generally used, being applicable to a variety of purposes. From the Anglo-Saxon ceorfan, pronounced “ korfan,” carving takes its origin, and it has undergone very little alteration through changeable ages. Fig. 345. Pair of Slicing-carvers. The office of Carver has always been recognised in the annals of cookery as of exceptional importance; now-a- days, in small families it is the duty of the host to dispense his own hospitality, but at one time this was the duty of the hostess or lady at the head of the table, hence carving became a highly important element in the education of a lady intended to shine in any scale of society. But in spite of all this how rarely do we meet with a skilful Carver ? This part of the domestic education is sadly neglected, for the following reasons : firstly, because of the general lack of opportunities to practise; secondly, be- cause the average man is lazy at table, and prefers to be served rather than serve others; thirdly, because to bear the reputation of an able Carver entails a perpetual, and, sometimes perhaps, inconvenient demand upon the services of the individual, whilst others, not less actively employed with their knives and forks, sit around him to enjoy the products of his skill and dexterity. Continental cooks are of opinion that the average Englishman is the very worst Carver in existence; that he is not aware of his deficiencies but undertakes cheerfully the most complicated operations, and performs with extraordinary clumsiness by main force what might be done by a light movement of the knife did the operator take the precaution to first under- stand the anatomical complications with which he is attempting to deal. Indeed, it is no unusual circumstance for the French satirist to exercise his entertaining wit upon representations of the deeds of the British Carver. Carving—continued. In one cartoon, which forcibly presents itself to our recollection, the father of a family is depicted struggling with a goose, which circles gaily round a dish, making spasmodic darts from side to side, and freely besprinkling the guests with the gravy. “ Which is the goose ? ” in- quires the artist in the sub-line. But, although the hos may be to blame for his lack of carving skill, yet the cook comes in for his share of badinage, for in a counter cartoon he is represented trussing the goose, and piercing Fig. 347. Poui.try-carver. its body in all sorts of ungainly and almost impossible directions with wooden and iron skewers, as long and large as ordinary walking-sticks. Then again, the goose is sent to table literally floating in gravy. Now the Continental cook, in view of the probable dearth of good Carvers, takes the skeleton out of the goose by boning, and having stuffed the bird, and pressed it back again into its original shape, sends it to table boneless and skewerless, so that a child can cut it; and what is equally to the point, the gravy or sauce is served in a-tureen. But it is not with dishes that need no special carving that we have to deal here; such delicacies as galantines and boned meats generally requiring to be sliced only, it will be sufficient to observe that for them the Carver needs only to use a long, broad-bladed knife. To carve joints, game, fish, or poulti-y, the Carver should be comfortably and conveniently seated, with the dish holding the viand to be carved placed at a distance not exceeding the length of the forearm—that is, from the elbow to the wrist—from the edge of the table. The Carver should sit close to the table, upon a chair about Fig. 348. Poultry-scissors and Carver Combined. 2in. higher than the generality of dining-room chairs. Standing up to carve is neither graceful nor necessary, provided the Carver is a master of the art; in any case, it is a sure sign of incompetence, and indicative of a “force- of-arms” operation, threatening direful consequences to the neighbouring guests. The Carver should be supplied with tools that are suit- able for the purposes required of them—a long, broad- bladed knife for slicing, such as round of beef (see Fig. 345); a long, narrow blade for ham (see Fig. 346); a short medium-broad blade for poultry (see Fig. 347); a slice for fish (see Fig. 357); and a pair of Carver's scissors for large birds when expedition and exceeding neatness are desirable. Fig. 348 illustrates a very ingenious instrument invented by a Frenchman, being poultry- scissors and carver combined. A would-be Carver can only attain proficiency by studying the bony structure, joints, and outward land- marks, so that he may carry his knife through the soft parts direct to the joint he wishes to sever; otherwise, instead of clean cuts, he will disfigure the soft portions by hacking and jagging. Full directions for reaching these joints are described under their various headings ; 2 f 2308 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. but it may be as well to state bere that as the limbs of all vertebrates, whether beasts, birds, or fishes, are joined to the trunk by ball-and-socket joints (see Fig. 349), they require a dexterous twist of the point of the knife to separate the internal ligament that holds the ball in its place. Other joints of the limbs are hinge joints (see Fig. 350), and some are merely slightly cupped or flat; but the most complicated and troublesome of all to divide are the joints of the vertebra in the backbone, from Fig. 349. Ball-and-socket Joint. head to tail. It is not often that the Carver is called upon to sever these joints, but as it may happen now and then, it is advisable that he should be familiar with their construction. The joints of all animals, whether beasts, birds, or fishes, admit of these types, but, with few exceptions, the Carver is not often required to interfere. Fig. 351 shows one form of vertebrate backbone, and will serve to give some notion how the vertebra bodies are locked together and the overlapping projections called spines, which distract the edge of the knife from the joint underneath. Although these backbones may differ greatly in birds, animals, and fish, yet the principle is the same throughout. The Carver should acquaint himself with what are con- sidered the choice or prime parts of meats, and should then endeavour to give each guest an equal proportion; or, if these parts are limited, as the breast of a chicken, he should serve that to the principal guests, as far as it will go. The Carver should ascertain, before starting to work, that his knives are sharp ; but in order that lie may not be at a loss in this respect at any time of his labours, it is advisable that he should be supplied with a sharp steel, that will act on the edges of the knives, and not pretend to do so only. The sound of knife-sharpening is very un- pleasant to some persons, and by no means pleasing to an}?, excepting as indicating the presence of good cheer and hospitality; but although it might be satisfactorily dispensed with, and not missed in good company, it is, nevertheless, often taken advantage of by John Bull to j call attention to the Carver, and give the host an oppor- tunity of welcoming his guests with a few cordial words, to the tune of the “ switz-switz ” as he stands before the uncovered dish. For cutting horizontal slices it is usual to use a two- pronged fork—all carving forks should be two-pronged— fitted with a spring guard, which should be raised, so as to prevent the knife slipping—as it might easily do in carving Fig. 3S0. Hinge Joint. thin slices—and playing havoc with the Carver’s fingers. The usual spring-guard carving-fork lias the drawback of wearing out. so easily, that whilst the fork is still in its prime, the guard falls spontaneously, or refuses to, stand Carving—continued. up. Several efforts have been made to invent a fork fitted with a guard that should not be subject to this defect; all of these may possess more or less merit, but there are not many that have found their way into the market. One scheme for maintaining the guard in its upright position is a sliding tongue that fits into a nick at the base of the guard, and upon which the finger rests in carving, thus securely keeping it in its place. It is just one of those simple little arrange- ments that have been overlooked for generations, in spite of the glaring defects that have been making themselves painfully conspicuous ever since the first introduction of forks; and then, at a happy moment, the remedy enters the brain of some ingenious gentleman, and the past is wiped out in a new era, and one more step in advance—towards the millennium, perhaps—is made. The foregoing instructions are, of course, incomplete without reference to the special article to be carved; but by consulting the details given hereunder, and bearing in mind the advice we give here, there should be nothing except nervousness or modesty to prevent either man or woman acquiring the knowledge necessary for carving. Practical experience is the next feature to be sought after, and that is generally forthcoming to those who are socially and obligingly inclined. When carving joints, remember that most meats should be cut across the grain of the flesh, and that beef must at all times be cut thin—hot, about Jin., and cold Jin.; mutton should be about Jin. thick, pork and veal a trifle less, and lamb and Fig. 351. Joints of Backbone. sucking-pig as mutton, or thicker, depending to some extent upon the width of the joints. The practice of carving at a sideboard by professional Carvers is now almost universally adopted at banquets or large private houses; but, although this has the great advantage of ensuring the proper handling of the meats, it is not much approved of by artistic cooks, for the orna- mentation of the viand upon which so many pride them- selves is no longer of any use, as the joints, &c., do not come under the immediate view of the diners. For their consolation it may be urged that the diners themselves are also affected per and contra: if they lose the appetising appearance of the dish, concerning which Mr. Corblet amongst other professional cooks sets so much store, they have the advantage of partaking of them neatly and scientifically carved, and quite free from the dangers and perspiring agonies that attend the course of the amateur and incompetent Carver. Let the cook lay out his decorative art on the dishes that grace the table, such as entrees and sweets; then let him be thankful to the professional Carver, who makes the most of the meats, and economises as well: let him honour the Carver as he ought to be honoured, for the Carver holds the credit of the cook in his hands. Beef.—There is not much difficulty in carving large joints of Beef, the cuts being of the very simplest character, and mostly in one direction. For instance, the aitchbone and round require carefully slicing in a horizontal direction, as shown in Fig. 352, a plan that should be carried out so long as there is any of either to carve. When the lower portions are reached, theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 309 Carving—continued. Carver may use his own judgment as to whether he will take off another slice; if he decide not to do so, he will complete the work by cutting up into chunks. This is at the best but a slovenly termination. Nevertheless, it is better to adopt it, should the meat be cut away so far, rather than attempt a further slicing when the stability of the remnant is not sufficiently great to resist the pressure of the knife. Carving—continued. by itself. Fig. 355, A, shows the cuts directly across, and in Fig. 355, B, they are in a slanting or diagonal direction. In either case, it is not usual to serve the end or to cut Fig. 354. Carving Middle op Sirloin of Beef with full Under-cut. Fig 355. Carving Fillet of Beef very bony subject, and several plans have been suggested, but the majority of experienced Carvers are in favour of the directions shown in Fig. 356, from a to B. The sweet- bread is generally at the neck end, or round about in pieces as a garnish. The eye should be cut out first with plenty of margin round it: that is, as much as the bony socket Fig. 353. Carving Ribs of Beef. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their svecial heads. Fig. 352 Carving Aitchbone of Beef. The ribs are cut down along the length of the flat bones (see Fig. 353), and a portion of the fat and flap which is turned under may be cut in the same direc- tion, but it is not usual to turn the joint over for this purpose, for, if the long cuts are carried far enough through, the slices will embrace quite as much fat as most persons care to eat. It is also advisable, before slicing, to loosen the meat from the bones by passing the point of the knife about an inch in, and making another cross incision along the part that is rounded by the turning under of the flap just so far down as it is intended to slice. A very little experience will render the Carver proficient in the cutting of what is not gener- ally considered an easy joint to carve. The sirloin requires very similar treatment, but in this joint there is the under-cut, or fillet, to deal with, and as some persons are particularly fond of this very tender part, it is usual to turn the joint on to its back, as it were, and then slice out the meat as shown in Fig. 354. This is, however, very much opposed to the directions given for carving the fillet when it is removed from the loin, the flesh being cut with the grain instead of across it. There are two plans of carving the fillet when served Fig. 356. Carving Half Calf’s Head will allow. The palate, which will be found underneath, is reckoned a delicacy; and the tongue is usually served as a dish by itself, and carved transversely. the meat right through, but to supplement the downward cuts by a horizontal cut, severing the slices within an inch or so of the under-surface. Calf’s Head.—This is sent to table in halves, therefore the directions given are for one half only. The object of the Carver is to obtain the largest slices of meat from a310 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. Pish.—With but few exceptions the modes of carving fish depend upon the shape, and then in describing the carving of one fish you include all of a similar kind. Fig. 357 Fish-slice. Some fish, however, are only considered partly worth eating, it is therefore well to ascertain which are the prime parts, and to serve them only to your guests. A silver or plated fish-slice is the best instrument (see Fig. 357). Carp is one of those fish that are only partly eaten, Fig. 358. Carving Carp. and that part is or should be the middle of the back, where Carp are generally larded (see Fig. 358). Cod’s head and shoulders require no special knowledge if they come off a large fish. The cut of the scoring indicates clearly how the slices are to be obtained (see Fig. 359. Carving Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Fig. 359); but it is advisable to know that with each slice a little of the sound may be appreciated. The sound is attached to the sides of the backbone, and will be found there. As to carving the head, as that will Carving—continued. Mullet are usually split into halves lengthwise, and half the liver served with each half of the fish. Salmon requires no special plan, unless it is one that good Carvers adopt when serving the middle cut. The fish- Fig. 361. Carving Turbot. slice should be passed in lines along the back, lengthwise, to half the distance, and then this part cut in transverse strips (see Fig. 360), so that each guest receives a slice from the thick of the back and a fair cut of the thin ; the prime object is to avoid breaking the flakes. All large flat fish can be carved after the same plan as shown at Fig. 361 for carving turbot. Score two lines with the slice right down to the rib-bones, one being on each side of the central backbone, then transverse slices can be removed from one side at a time. Turn the fish over, and proceed as before, if more is required for serving than one side will supply. The flesh on the fins and the skin are highly esteemed by epicures, therefore they should not be removed before cooking. A sole does not often require carving, serving merely as a dish for one; but in the case of an exceptionally large fish it may be treated as the turbot, the transverse slices being very much broader. B Fig. 360. Carving Middle of Salmon. Fig. 362. Carving Ham. assuredly fall to pieces, the Carver must serve the frag- ments as best he can, taking heart of grace from the certainty that all of them are equally good. Ham.—There are two or three plans of carving a ham, but the best by far is that shown in Fig. 362, A, although it is not so satisfactory in those cases where it is intended311 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Carving—continued. to serve it all in the one condition, that is, as a joint; then it is usual to commence cutting in slanting circular cuts from the knuckle, a very economical system, but cooks have so many uses for any remnant of ham that may be left on the bone, that none of it need be wasted; a very important consideration to those who would not care to see too much of the shank. Sometimes the bone is removed, and perhaps the ham may also be stuffed; there are two or three modes of carving this, as shown in Fig. 362, B, the round slices being chiefly recommended. Fig. 363. Carving Hare. Hare.—The directions usually given for carving this game are for the purpose of serving the primest parts of the flesh only, leaving the limbs and bony carcase for future culinary uses. Slices should, in this case, be cut transversely from the back, commencing over the shoulder blade and continuing backwards to the pro- minence of the hip bones (see Fig. 363). Sometimes a leveret may be entirely cut up at table, and then the same transverse cuts shown in the illustration may be carried right through the backbone. The limbs can be dis- jointed by passing the knife between them and the body so far as the bones will allow, and then by bending the limb outwards and in the opposite direction the joint (ball and socket) will be exposed, and can readily be divided with the point of the knife. The head is much liked by some persons; it should be cut off at the neck, and after the lower jaw has been removed be split open by a longi- tudinal cut commencing at the tip of the nose, and com- pleted by forcing the knife by short firm strokes, splitting the forehead, to between the ears, cutting through the entire skull, and thus laying open the brain and tongue in two parts. The head, being regarded as an ornament, should not be cut off until the body has been dealt with. Heart.—It is not very often that the Carver will be called upon to serve this dish; but should occasion re- quire, whether roasted or baked, stuffed or not, large or small, the slices should be wedge-shaped, cut from the top to the point, and go right through into the centre or stuffing. Lamb.—The fore-quarter is the favourite joint and re- quires some experience. Other joints, such as the leg and loin, are carved the same as corresponding parts of mutton. The first thing to do with a fore-quarter is to loosen the shoulder, which is done by a circular cut about an inch deep in the direction marked ABC in Fig. 364. The shoulder can then be lifted and dissected off the ribs Carving— continued. if desired, to be put upon another dish and reserved for serving cold; but it is much more artistic to leave the shoulder on after raising it and squeezing some lemon- juice in under it. A longitudinal cut (dce) separates the short ribs from the neck and is followed by transverse incisions made in the direction of the ribs, commencing from G to E. At F some choice meat, answering to the “ kernel ” of chops, is to be found. The shoulder may also be carved as for shoulder of mutton, and served, according to the choice of the guest, either with or without the ribs. The neck is better cold, and may be cut in any direction preferred—straight across for preference. Mutton.—The shoulder offers diverse styles of carving, but some very nice cuts can be obtained if the plan shown in Fig. 365, A, is adopted. First ascertain, with the carving-fork, the direction of the spine of the blade-bone, and then cut longitudinal wedge-shaped slices from either side of it. Small transverse slices can be got out of the inner part where there is no bone, and the under-surface (Fig. 365, B) can be cut as shown by the dotted lines A, B, and D. What is left of the shoulder is so rarely served cold that it matters little how the joint is carved. A B Fig. 355. Carving Shoulder of Mutton. provided the directions given are observed. There is no necessity to trouble about preserving the appearance of the joint, for that is reckoned of secondary importance, and never looks neat after the first cut. A haunch of mutton is not so often served now-a-days as formerly, but when it does find its way to the table it should be carved as directed for haunch of venison. A saddle of mutton, or double loin, requires some judgment in its carving, for it is so essentially a joint of the epicure, that an error in serving it is deemed by such persons a deed almost equal to a crime. Fig. 366, A, shows the plan of carving this joint in a very dainty style—first a longitudinal cut near the centre (ab), then diagonal slices for serving, and cuts from the thin edge (d to c) for the sake of the fat. But al'l saddles of mutton are not dressed alike, hence we may have to deal with a saddle of fat mutton prepared as shown in Fig. 366, B. The cuts might then be directly transverse, as with the sirloin of beef, but, should the saddle be small like Welsh mutton, a system of diagonal carving (see Fig. 366, C) is almost indispensable if anything like worthy slices are to be procured. The loin is carved after a somewhat similar plan to the saddle, but the usual method is to cut it into chopsTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 312 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. and serve bone and kidney witli the slices. In all these cases it is important that the edge of the knife shall be Fig. 366. Carving Saddle of Mutton as keen as possible, or mutton will cut jagged instead of smooth and clean. A Carving—conti nued. arises “ Where do they all come from ? ” it is a joint that can be readily spoiled by bad carving. Let the round bulging part be placed uppermost, and the knuckle end to the right or left, according to which side the leg belongs—right leg, knuckle to the right; left leg, knuckle to the left (with a shoulder of mutton the arrangement is the same); but a better guide perhaps is to feel with the fork for the direction of the shank-bone, and then see before you commence cutting that the leg is placed with the thickest part from you. From this pai-t slices may be cut one after the other (see Fig. 367, A) down to the bone, either from the knuckle or thick end, according to the wishes of the guests. When the Carver has rendered a good account of this first position, the joint should be turned over, and then some very fine slices of meat can be cut in the direction indicated by the dotted lines shown in Fig. 367, B. When the leg is boned and stuffed the plan of carving is much simplified, as shown in Fig. 367, C. A Fig. 368. Carving Capon or Pullet. Fig. 367. Carving Leg of Mutton. A leg of mutton, either boiled or roasted, is so commonly sent to table that apart from the doubt that naturally Pork.—The direction of the cuts in carving joints of this meat are usually indicated by the “ scoring ” of the skin; but with a leg of pork it is best to remove all the “ crackling ” and then carve as if it were a leg of mutton, serving a little strip of crackling with each slice if desired by the recipient. To cut through the crackling without removing it may cause serious mis- direction of the knife, and some very awkward slices result. Poultry and Game Birds.—There are a few simple rules to be observed in carving birds that may be main- tained throughout; but although the cuts may appear to be simple enough on paper, the difficulty is to carry them out successfully on the bird itself. From its shapeTABLE ORNAMENTS IN CARAMEL AND SPUN SUGAR. A, B, C REPRESENT COMPLETE ORNAMENTS MADE UP OF FOUR PIECES OF SHAPED CARAMEL, SUCH AS D, F, FIXED ON A STAND, E, OF WHICH THE Rod IS ALREADY DECORATED WITH A TUFT OF SPUN SUGAR.313 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Carving—continued. alone some awkwardness arises; but this has to be over- come by plunging the fork upright into the very centre of the breastbone, and keeping it there until the bird is dis- posed of and distributed as desired. This will suggest the use of a second fork for serving, especially when operating upon a capon, goose, turkey, or other large bird. With a capon or pullet it is usual to remove the legs first (see Fig. 368, A, B), and this is done by passing the knife between the thigh and the body until the bone is reached, then the thigh is forced back and the joint laid open—the leg can then be removed readily enough with the point of the knife. In removing the wing (C) a part of the breast should be sliced away with it, carving close to the ribs, and then, when the joint is reached, bend out this limb also to expose the joint, and then sever with the knife. These instructions apply to all large birds, but are some- times neglected by persons ignorant of the ordinary rules of carving, the result being that in their frantic efforts to cut through the joints, without first exposing them, they score a wretched failure, as irritating to themselves as it is aggravating to the waiting guests, who watch their food being mangled. Having removed the legs and wings of the capon, they should be cut into two pieces lengthwise, passing through the joints (hinge joints), which are best cut through with carving-scissors. The breast can next be removed in splendid slices, as indicated by the dotted lines in A, Fig. 368. When all these parts are duly served some very good pickings can be supplied by dividing (through the ribs) the breast from the backbone, and cutting these again into lengths. c D Fio. 369. Carving Fowl. A fowl is carved very much in the same way as a capon, as may be seen from Fig. 369. The direction of the knife in cutting through the thigh is clearly shown at D, the legs and wings are first removed, and this is sometimes effected by a clever Carver at one stroke of the knife (see Fig. 369, A). The blade is held horizontally, I Carving—continued. and cuts right down to the bone (a to B); then by bending the back of the knife downwards the joints are exposed, and by a dexterous movement of the knife the whole side is cut off. When cold roasted fowls are carved before sent to table, and tied up into position with string, or ribbon, this single-cut system is of the utmost value. The breast can be carved in the usual way (see Fig. 369, B), whether the fowl has been boiled or roasted. If well trussed the wings should form a flat surface to rest on the dish (Fig. 369, C), but the trussing strings shown must be removed before sending the fowl to table. The breastbone should be divided into two parts by a trans- verse cue (c to JD, Fig. 369, A). A B Fig. 370. Carving Roasted Goose. Boasted goose presents very little difficulty. Slices are cut off the breast by incisions made as in Fig. 370, A or B, the blade of the knife taking a downward and outward direction. The limbs are removed in the usual way, and the stuffing is got at by cutting through the apron just above the tail (Pope’s nose). A duck is carved precisely after the same plan as a goose, but as the limbs are considered prime they are usually the first removed, and the breast-slices are, of course, fewer than the goose admits of. Ducklings may be simply cut into four pieces by a lengthwise cut right down and through the centre, and then across. Of a canvas-back duck the breast only is served, and this is sliced off, after removing the wings. Partridges and pheasants are easy enough to carve if properly trussed. A young partridge may be merely split into halves lengthwise, and cut across again if desired; but a large plump bird should be divided into three, as shown in Fig. 371, which is accomplished by two lengthwise cuts on either side of the breast (C), the two pieces (B and D) resulting, and leaving the breast on the carcase to be afterwards separated from the back. Small pheasants are treated much the same as large partridges; but if the bird is large, it may be carved as if it were a fowl, cutting away with the wing as little as possible of the breast. Pigeons, quails, moor-fowl, and other birds of about their size may be split lengthwise into halves, as witli small partridges. Fig. 372 shows one of these small birds trussed for roasting. The skewer is removed before serving. B shows the position of the wings on the back; these are the only difficulties of any importance to be met with in cutting right through. Plovers may be cut into halves, three pieces, or served314 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c, referred to see under their special heads. Carving—continued. whole on the toast. If you elect to cut up the bird, then look out for a little bag of sand that is to be found next the liver, and remove it, or by its rupture the flesh may be made unpleasantly gritty, and spoil the dish. 'Turkey, bustard, capercailzie, and other birds of a similar size can be carved after the same plan, the object Fig. 371. Carving Partridge. being to cut good substantial-looking slices without destroying the appearance of the bird until compelled to do so by the demand upon its resources. There are two modes of carving the breast of a roasted tui-key, as shown in Fig. 373, A and B. In A the slices are made in a transverse direction, and from a large bird many good slices can be obtained; or the slices may be longitudinal Fig. 372. Pigeons Trussed for Roasting. (ba), as shown in B. The stuffing is obtained by making an incision between the legs and lifting the “ apron ” (c). Boiled turkey is better carved longitudi- nally, as the transverse incisions would be likely to become ragged and broken in the cutting. The wings and legs are removed as explained for a fowl, the shin- Carving—continued. bone being removed from the drumstick, and that fleshy part either served whole or sliced like a small leg of mutton. Boned and stuffed turkeys require no knowledge of carving, but may be sliced through transversely, com- Fig. 373. Carving Roasted Turkey. mencing at the neck end, or almost any part, according to the views of the Carver. Observe that the leg-bones of a boiled turkey are trussed in under the skin, differing in that respect from the roasted bird; this may entail a little extra difficulty in removing the limb. Fig. 374. Carving Boiled Turkey. Rabbit.—This is very easy to carve if sufficiently boiled (a whole rabbit is almost invariably boiled), as in that case the flesh and joints are soft and unresisting. The first step is to sever the limbs from the body, which is done precisely as described for hare. Some Carvers then split the back by forcing the point of the knife through the Fig. 375. Carving Boiled Rabbit. backbone, and cutting down between the loins through the tail. In this way the backbone has to be split throughout, a task that, if desired, might well be performed by the cook before trussing, and as some force must be used a very firm hold should be taken with the fork. The back and loin are to be cut into short lengths, the thickest meat being found on the loin. The shoulder-blade can be cut315 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fig. 378. Carving Neck of Veal. With a breast of veal the Carver commences by sepa- rating the ribs from the brisket, cutting horizontally (A to b). The parts can then be cut across, as shown in Fig. 377 (ccc, ddd). The carving of the neclc should be preceded by the long horizontal cut cd (Fig. 378). The pieces for serving Carving—continued. should be cut diagonally (ab, Fig. 378), and not in chops, or the slice would be too large and ugly if served with the bone. Besides that, the bones are useful for the stockpot. The loin of veal is a very nice joint to carve, as it is generally very meaty, therefore the diagonal cuts (the same as for the neck) answer admirably. The kidney and its fat should be first cut out and carved separately. Fig 380. Carving Haunch of Venison. These instructions for the Carver must not be con- cluded without advising the cook, who desires to see that his preparations have gained rather than lost merit by their service, to look carefully and critically to the truss- ing, dressing, and garnishing, concerning which much will be found under their specific headings. The foregoing instructions have been given plainly and simply, so that the art of carving may be simplified instead of rendered more confusing to the uninitiated by the introduction of unnecessary detail. Some gourmets may suggest that the prime parts have been insufficiently pointed our and described, a fault, if it be one, on the right side, for when carving for many the claims of a single gourmet should not be acknowledged. Indeed, unless all are gourmets at the table none should be recognised at all, but when the gourmet sits alone, then he will probably not only recognise, but serve himself with the parts of his soul’s desire. Fig. 376. Carving Roasted Sucking-pig. carving is sufficiently simple to require no further in- struction than is shown by the dotted lines in the illustration (Fig. 376). Tongue.—There is only one way possible of carving this viand, and that is by transverse slices, which might be cut through if it were not required to preserve the shape of tongue. The fat at the root should be cut in thin slices in the same direction, and a piece served with each slice of the lean. Rolled tongue should be sliced horizontally. ODD Fig. 377 Carving Breast of Veal. Veal.—The instructions given for carving joints of other meat apply equally to veal with but very small differences. The shoulder of veal—a very favourite part—requires that the joint should be sent to table turned the reverse way to a shoulder of mutton, and then the carving is identical with the under-cutting of the shoulder of mutton, commencing at the knuckle end for prime cuts. Fig. 379. Carving Fillet of Veal. A fillet of veal is simply cut in slices, just as a round of beef, only a trifle thicker (see Fig. 379). Take care to distribute the stuffing equally. Venison.—The only part of this game that the direc- tions given for carving other meat does not apply to is the haunch. A transverse cut (ab, Fig. 380) to the bone is first made round the leg just above the joint, and then longitudinal slices of fin. thick are cut out fi-om c to the transverse cut ab. The slices (wedge-shaped) should slope by degrees as the back of the loin is approached. If the slices are skilfully removed, a well of rich gravy remains in its place. Carving—continued. through, as shown in Fig. 375. A small portion of the liver ought to be served with each piece of rabbit, that is unless the liver has been used up in making a sauce or stuffing. Sucking-pig.—As this little delicacy ought to be dis- jointed by the cook before sending to table, the plan of316 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. CASEIN.—The nitrogenous or flesli-forming portion of milk from which cheese is made. It is sometimes known as “Caseum,” and was supposed to be the albumen of milk, but recent chemists have decided that Casein is not a combination of albumen and potash, because the ash of milk contains no alkali. Casein differs from albumen, because it cannot be coagulated by heat, as shown in making Welsh-rabbits, when the cheese melts : but Casein lias a peculiarity entirely its own, of being thrown down in a coagulated form by what are called “ organic acids.” These acids are met with in rennet, an animal membrane, for which reason calf’s and pig’s rennets are used largely in making cheese. The milk is boiled with the rennet, and down falls the Casein (see Cheese). Casein is one of the elements of food, and classed with albumen and fibrine; but it differs also from fibrine, because it will not undergo spontaneous coagulation as fibrine does. Cheese—especially cheese made from skim-milk—may be considered almost entirely to consist of Casein. The average quantity of Casein in different milks is as follows : Ass’s milk Woman’s milk Cow’s milk Goat’s milk Ewe’s milk 182 per cent. 1-52 „ 45 4-02 4-50 As the nourishing qualities of milk depend chiefly upon the proportion of Casein in its constitution, it will be seen by the above table that the milk of the ewe stands higher than the others given, and the ass’s milk lowest, the woman’s milk being also exceptionally poor. See Albumen and Fibrine. CASHEW.—The fruit of the Cashew-tree (Anacardium occidentale), a native of Jamaica and of the East and West Indies, yields a kidney-bean shaped nut, which hangs from the end of the pear-shaped fruit. In size and shape, Fig. 381 Casiiew-fruit and Nuts this eccentric nut resembles the kidney of a rabbit or hare. The fruit is juicy, fleshy, and has a pleasant flavour —sugary, acid, and perhaps a trifle acrid—but neverthe- less extremely delectable to the taste. A very delicious wine is made from the expressed juice, and from the wine a spirit, which is considered superior to rum, is distilled. The Cashew-nut contains a kernel that is very pleasantly flavoured, and abounds in a sweet, milky juice, with a bland oil and sugary gum that render it valuable for cook- ing and confectionery. Sometimes the kernels are added to Madeira wine to improve the mellowness of its flavour. There are several varieties of the Cashew, but only one known to the culinary profession, which is shown in the drawing, and which has very showy green and dark red flowers. The fruit of this kind is roasted to give flavour to punch, and the juice of the flower-stalk yields a pleasant acid, which can be converted into a beverage superior to lemonade. CASKS.—In early times liquids were stored in jars and carried about in skins; but for many a long year back the trade of the cooper, or Cask-maker, has flour- ished, with the satisfactory result that vessels are now built capable of holding an immense body of valuable liquid without the chance of loss by fracture, or deteriora- tion by atmospheric action or exposure. There are now prepared for our use Casks of various kinds, varying from an oyster-barrel to the great tun of Heidelberg, which will contain 49,000galls. Unfortunately, the capacity of Casks is not regulated by Act of Parliament, but by custom; hence it follows, as a matter of course, that the Cask measures of England, Scotland, and Ireland differ in a marked degree. The wine tun is assumed to contain 252galls., which is two butts of 126galls. each, or four hogsheads of 63galls. each. But foreign Casks are of all sorts and sizes, and vary considerably, the hogshead being anything from 40galls. to 50galls.; a butt (of sherry) 120galls., and a pipe 114galls. Octaves are of 11>galls, capacity, and half-octaves half that amount. Casks used for storing wine in Germany are larger than those of France, and are called stiicks, containing 240galls., and half-stiicks, containing 120galls., or a French butt of sherry. Wine is exported from Germany in auras, or ohms, of 30galls. each. In some countries it is usual to store wine in vats of extraordinary size. In Sicily, the capacity of a wine-vat is often as much as 17,600galls., and some contain 30,000galls. In the cellars of Messrs. Moet and Chandon, at Epernay, are two Casks holding 33,000galls. apiece. The staves are 8in. thick, and supported on four walls of solid masonry, the head being also beautifully carved in bold relief. At the Paris Exhibition of 1878 a Cask was exhibited holding 22,000galls., and in the wine cellars at Barcelona there are vats holding from 30,000galls. to 50,000 galls., the latter eclipsing the great tun of Heidelberg. For the relative capacities of the various Casks known to the commercial fraternity of this country, reference should be made to the Table of Equivalent Weights and Measures. It may be useful to know how to clean a Cask before using it. For large establishments, several valuable machines have been invented ; but for ordinary use, it will be sufficient to rinse out the Cask with water and soda, then fill it with water, add a little hydrochloric acid to it, and allow it to stand with this in f ir two or three days, finally emptying and rinsing out with fresh water. The outsides should be thoroughly scrubbed with a hand-brush. CASSAREEP.—A condiment made in the West Indies from the expressed juice of the cassava-root, to which several native spices are added. CASSAVA.—There are several names given to this plant, such as Cassada, Cassado, Manioc, Mandioc, and Maniliot, the last having preference among botanists, as indicated by the botanical name (Jatroplia Maniliot). It is one of the spurge tribe, and presents considerable interest to the culinary artist, from the many uses to which its products are applied. To us it is better known as the plant from which tapioca is obtained, but to the natives of Brazil and other parts where it is cultivated in a rough way, the uses to which its root and juice are applied render it one of the most valuable, and yet, strange to say, most dangerous of Nature’s handi- works. Rhind observes of it, “ When it is considered that this plant belongs to a highly-poisonous tribe, and is itself one of the most virulent of the species, it cannot but excite astonishment to find that it yet yields an abundant poison which, by the art of man, becomes not only perfectly innocent, but highly nutritious, yielding nourishment to many thousands of the natives of South America, and affording a luxury to the tables of more refined Europeans.” The Cassava is indeed one of Nature’s contradictions, in which she seems to delight, but as it is by the hand of man that the conversion takesTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 317 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Cassava—continued. place, it would perhaps be interesting to know that the grand metamorphosis takes place by simply subjecting the root or juice to heat. There are two kinds of Cassava usually cultivated, termed respectively the bitter and the sweet. The bitter is said to be more poisonous than the sweet, but the roots of both are dried by the Indians, ground into Hour, made into cakes, and baked. The expressed juice of the sweet Cassava, when fermented, pi-oduces the intoxicating liquor called Piwarry. “ Among the Indians of Nicaragua, and also in the interior of Peru,” we are informed by a writer on the subject of the drinks of nations, “ an intoxicating beverage is prepared by chewing the boiled root of Cassava and leaving it to ferment, after mixing with it hot water and cane-juice. The process being much the same as in the case of Kava of Fiji and the South Sea Islands. The juice of the manioc, as described above, is also fermented with the addition of molasses, and con- verted into an intoxicating liquor, in great favour with Indians and negroes.” CASSEROLES.—These are little vessels, used in every kitchen of any pretension. They are usually made of metal, either copper or iron, flat-bottomed, and fitted with short handles. Continental cooks are in the habit of using the term to denote a sort of measure, as a Casserole of rice, and in this way certain dishes have obtained the same distinguishing title, as Casserole au riz, Casserole a VIndienne, Casserole a la Polonaise, Fig. 382. Silver Casserole. and the dish used to hold these Casseroles becomes a Casserole (see Fig. 382) by the same system of adapta- tion. They are generally made of silver. Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads with Potato Border. — Cut lib. of lean uncooked veal into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with salted water and a slice of onion, and boil until quite tender; then take them out and plunge into cold water to whiten. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce into a saucepan, and add 1 saltspoonful each of celery, salt, and half that quantity of pepper, to season it; place the veal in this, and add 1 teacupful of mushrooms cut into quarters. Put the pan on the fire for five minutes, or until the meat and mushrooms are hot, then take it off, and at once add a well-beaten egg and 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Put a border of potato round the edge of a dish and the meat, &c., inside, or it may be garnished with toast. CASSIA.—There are several varieties of the Cassia, one of which (Cassia Fistula) produces long pods con- taining a soft, blackish pulp, which is used in making an aperient confection. Another variety (Cinnamomum Cassia) yields a bark that is somewhat less aromatic, but otherwise difficult to distinguish from cinnamon. Oils and essences are prepared from this bark just as in cin- namon, for which it is often sold without detection. Candied Cassia.—Take as much of the powder of Cassia as will cover a two-shilling piece, pound with it a small quantity of musk and ambergris. When the Cassia, musk, and ambergris are well pounded, take jib. of sugar, add to Cassia—continued. it as much water as will moisten it, boil to a candy height (see Sugar-boiling), then add the powder and mix well in. Pour this mixture into buttered pewter saucers. Let it stand till quite cold, and then turn it out. Cassia Ratafia. — Bruise )lb. of bitter cherries, also lib. of Cassia; pound i drachm of cinnamon, and cut small lib. of Cassia-leaves. Put cherries, Cassia, Cassia-leaves, and cin- namon into a good-sized jar, pour in 3qts. of brandy, cover it closely, and let it stand for three weeks. Then melt in lqt. of water 21b. of sugar, open the jar and mix this sugar and water with the liqueur, cover it, and let it stand longer. Then strain it, put it into bottles, and cork them air-tight. CASSILE.—This dish derives its name from the cinnamon or cassia used in its preparation. In many parts of the American Continent it is considered very delicate and delicious. Mash one or two large cold boiled potatoes, and stir in with them 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream; put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon in a saucepan with a small piece of stick cinnamon and lqt. of milk, and boil it for ten minutes. Remove the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and stir the boiling milk gradually into the potato mixture, then pour the whole into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Pour the mixture into a dome-shaped, either fluted or plain, mould, and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, turn the Cassile out of the mould on to a fancy dish. CASSINA.—The leaves of a. North American plant (Ilex Cassine), mingled with some others of the same species, form the basis of a famous “ black drink,” which is used by the Indians as a medicine, and as a state drink at some of their religious festivals. It is said to have something of the same effect upon them that opium would have. The leaves are dried and prepared for use as tea, and the beverage brewed from them not only resembles tea in flavour, but contains a fair pro- portion of the active principle (caffeine) of coffee. One use to which this “tea” is applied—the cure of drunken- ness—renders it worthy of consideration; but the quantity introduced into England, except as an adulteration of tea, is very small indeed, and it is but little known. CASSIRI.—A famous drink by this name is brewed in British Guiana from the sweet potato, or, perhaps, more often from the root of the sweet cassava. Prof. Simmonds states that the drink is prepared by soaking in water the farina obtained from one of these sources, and then boiling it, stirring freely all the time the vessel is on the stove, to prevent burning. When the boiling has continued long enough to have evaporated the water to one-half, “a pellicle forms upon the surface; the liquor is then poured off, without disturbing the pellicle, into another vessel, and allowed to ferment.” Dr. Schomburg describes a drink of the same name prepared from maize, sweet potatoes, and sugar-cane juice. The maize is crushed in a vessel, which has the form of a mortar, and then boiled into a pap. The same is done with the sweet potatoes, and this is then mixed with the juice of the sugar-cane. So far the pro- cess is quite unobjectionable; but the next step is not so inviting. A quantity of maize is chewed by the natives in order to convert its starch into sugar by the action of the saliva, and it is then, when fully saturated with this human ferment, spat into gourds, and added with plenty of water to the other ingredients, which would be already in a state of busy fermentation. The flavour of this drink is described as being by no means dis- agreeable. In South America it is called Kiebla, and the spirit distilled from it is familiar as Puichin. CASSIS.—A liqueur made in France from black- currant skins. To prepare this it is necessary to squeeze out the pulp from the fruit, and this is usually done by women, who have the patience to squeeze between the finger and thumb one berry at a time. See Cue- rants.318 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Cv.lmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. CASSOLETTES.—A sort of scented sweetmeats, such as pastilles, much esteemed on the Continent, where they are principally manufactured. Culinary art has, however, extended the signification to a sweet-smelling dish, described hereunder. Cassolette of Castelnaudary.—Take lib. of dry haricot beans, let them steep in water for a few hours, then put them into a stewpan with a little water, and place the pan on the fire. When this begins to boil, take it off the fire, cover over the pan, and let it remain for an hour. Strain off the water, put in fresh, add a little salt, and put the pan on again to boil ; when the beans are about three-parts done, take them out and strain them. Take a preserved (confite) leg and wing of a goose, put them in a low iron or enamelled pan or dish, adding 6oz. of the fat of a goose, put the pan on a moderate fire, and fry them ; turn them, and when quite done put in the beans and a small sliced French saveloy. Take one or two large onions, chop them in slices, and put them into a stewpan with some chopped bacon and two cloves, and let them fry; then dust over a little flour, and add lqt. of broth quite hot. Stir until it boils, and then put in two sprigs of sweet herbs and a chopped tomato, or a little tomato sauce ; boil the sauce quickly to reduce it, and then pour it over the beans. Put all together into an oven, and let the lot simmer until both meat and beans are cooked. Sprinkle over a little breadcrumb and finely-chopped parsley, put the pan at the oven door until the surface is a bright colour and slightly crisped. Leave the Cassolette in the pan or low dish in which it was cooked, and serve. This is a popular dish of Languedoc, in France. Cassolettes of Potato, Rice, and Salmon will be found under these headings. CASTER SUGAR.—See Sugar. CASTLE PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. CATAWBA. —A celebrated wine brewed in the United States. See American Wines. Catawba Syrup.—Mix together 1 pint each of simple syrup and Catawba wine. This is an American favourite, and is greatly in demand for flavouring soda water. CATFISH.—There are two varieties of this fish ; one (Pimelodus) (see Fig. 383) frequents rivers and grows to a great size, some specimens having been caught in the Mississippi weighing not far short of 2001b. The sea Catfish (Galeicthys marinas) is considered by some to be Fig. 384. Sea Catfish. the better suited for the table, and the flesh is declared to be excellent, but rather inclined to be coarse-fibred, oily, and poorly flavoured. It is sometimes called Hog1 fish, and a more hideous-looking creature it would be difficult to conceive. Although the names of the two fish are the same, it is very evident that they are not of the same species. The receipts refer to the river Catfish, the Catfish.—continued. sea Catfish being usually dried and cooked as dried haddock or salmon. Catfish Chowder. —(1) Wash the fish in warm water, put it on in just water enough to cover it, and boil until tender, or until the bones will slip out. Take out the largest bones, chop up the fish, put it in a stewpan with 1 pint of water a large lump of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, a little pepper and salt, one onion, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, and i teacupful of walnut ketchup, and stew until quite thick. Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve hot. (2) Take two Catfish, skin them, and boil till thoroughly done, then pick them very fine, and add two good-sized onions, ilb. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, and a little celery or celery-seed, thyme, and parsley. Pour over all lqt. of boiling water, and cook fast for about half-an-hour. Catfish Stewed with Tomatoes.—Cut the fish in slices, each weighing about 2oz., and fry them in a frying-pan with very little butter or dripping. When they are partly browned and about half-cooked, add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, one or two minced green onions, and a pod of red pepper. Strain a tin of tomatoes through a colander over the fish, and cook together about half-an-hour. Serve with strips of dry toast. CATSUP.—See Ketchup. CAUCASIAN WINES.—Although a considerable quantity of wine is manufactured in Caucasia, it is not of a very fine quality, being used chiefly for making brandy. It is mostly colourless, like water, or pale red, and is of a fiery character, but tones down by age to a fine Burgundy flavour. It is stated that as much as seven- and-a-lialf millions of bottles are produced annually in Mingrelia and the northern provinces. The natives, however, keep and transport them in skins of buffaloes and goats, which are tanned with the hair inside, and pitched with black naphtha. In some parts the wine is stored in large earthenware vessels as large as hogsheads, which are buried in the ground for the space of three years, or even longer. CAUDLE.—Oatmeal, or any other gruel, sweetened and enriched by the addition of spices and wine, usually administered as an internal comfort to lying-in patients after parturition. Some curious and varied customs prevail in different parts of the country concerning Caudle, which will be found recorded in various works on the habits and customs of the people. As most Caudles are served hot, a bowl such as shown in Fig. 385 is much prized for the purpose. The following receipt for Caudle is given by a famous nurse: (1) Rub three or four lumps of sugar over the rind of a lemon, and dissolve these in 1 table-spoonful of hot water; beat up an egg and whisk this in with it, adding, a little at a time, 1 wineglassful of port, Madeira, or sherry. Stir in also teaspoonful of ground ginger, and a good dusting of grated nutmeg. Have ready about f pint of fine oatmeal gruel, and just before serving stir the mixture into it quickly. Most invalids like Caudle prepared this way.319 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Caudle—continued. (2) A very common mode of preparing' it is by making1 a thick oatmeal gruel with J pint of strong ale, and heating this with moist sugar and ground mace and ginger in sufficient proportions to suit the palate of the maker, who usually gains a reputation for making Caudle according to the taste with which the ingredients are proportioned. A beaten egg whipped in before serving is by some considered an excellent addition. (3) Mix quite smoothly 1 level table-spoonful of flour with 1 pint of water (be very careful to have no lumps), put it on the stove, add 1 level teaspoonful of salt, stirring con- stantly till it boils, and allow it to boil for ten minutes. Then pour it into a bowl and let it get quite cold. Beat an egg to a foam, add to it 1 breakfast-cupful of the gruel when cold, and a glass of wine. Sweeten to taste, and grate in a little nutmeg. (4) Prepare a sufficient quantity of gruel with half grits ; when boiled, strain it into a basin and let it get cold, stirring it occasionally. For 1 pint of the Caudle, mix with it 1 wine- glassful of white wine, the grated peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and sugar to taste. (5) Make i pint of gruel with oatmeal and water, and when cooked mix in with it J wineglassful each of brandy and white wine, 1 table-spoonful of capillaire, |oz. of butter, three or four pieces of thinly-shred lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the Caudle over the fire until on the point of boiling, then turn it into a bowl and serve while very hot. Brown. Caudle.—Put 11 teacupfuls of oatmeal in a saucepan, and pour in sufficient water to make a smooth gruel; stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until cooked. Strain the gruel through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan with lqt. of mild ale, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Mix \ pint of white wine with the Caudle, sweeten it to taste, and serve. Cold Caudle .—Pour lqt. of boiling water out of the kettle into a jug and leave it until cold, then mix with it the beaten yolk of one egg, the juice of one lemon, 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, and loz. of syrup of lemons. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and serve. CAULIFLOWERS (Fr. Choux-fleurs; Gcr. Blumen- kohln; Sp. Coliflors ; Ital. Cavoli fiorei).—There is so little difference between broccoli and Cauliflowers that a large specimen of the former might easily be mistaken for the latter, although epicures have been wont to regard broccoli as worthless in comparison with the more tender, and perhaps more succulent, Cauliflower. The latter, Fig. 386. Cauliflower. may, perhaps, possess a somewhat finer flavour, but it has the advantage of being in perfection during the milder seasons, such as summer and early autumn; later on it speedily deteriorates. The cultivation of Cauliflowers has been carried to the highest degree of perfection in England, both in private and market gardens, and it is certainly a vegetable worthy of all the skill and care so liberally bestowed Cauliflowers—continued. upon it. The best varieties are known under the follow- ing names : Early London White, True Walclieren, Frogmore Forcing, Early Erfurt, Large Asiatic, Lenor- mand’s, Dwarf Mammoth, Stadtholder, Early Paris Short- stemmed ; and for a late variety it would be difficult to supersede Yeitch’s Autumn Giant. The heads selected for cooking should be close, foam- like, white, and as freslily-cut as may be. See also that the leaves and flower are uninjured by caterpillars, for when the leaves are attacked it is rarely that the flower escapes the ravages of these horticultural marauders, and when a stalk is bitten the flower at the end loses much of its tenderness, juice, and flavour. Should it be necessary to cut Cauliflowers faster than they are required for use, they may be stored on the floor of a coal-shed or cellar, in which protected and cool position they will keep comparatively fresh for some days. The long green leaves of the growing plant should be en- couraged to protect the flower from the sun, for which purpose some gardeners break the central rib of the inner leaves so that the upper part of the leaves shall fold down upon the flower, and thus preserve its white- ness. When the flower opens in places and begins to look greenish here and there, the quality is not so good as those which are white and tightly close. Before cooking, Cauliflower should be soaked in strongly-salted water, which will get rid of any insects that may have selected the sprays for a refuge; and in cooking it is always advisable to slightly acidulate the water, for in this way the whiteness is preserved. An epicure declares that Cauliflower is in itself so good, that, cleanly and sufficiently cooked, even in water only, it is delicious; but properly and daintily prepared, it is a dish for a king. After deploring the ability of the English cook, of whom he says: “ Les Anglais ne cuissent leurs legumes qu’a l’eau, encore ne sont ils qu’a moitie cuits ” (The English cook their vegetables in water only, therefore they are but half cooked). The writer gives his idea of how Cauliflowers should be cooked. The Cauliflower must be par-boiled in water, and the stem cut off sufficiently to allow of its being stood upright on the dish. Having been thus cooked and neatly trimmed, the Cauliflowers must be placed carefully in the stew- pan, and simmered gently in the following sauce : 4 table-spoonfuls of butter well rubbed into 1 table- spoonful of Bermuda arrowroot ; as the butter melts, A pint of water must be stirred into it by degrees. When the Cauliflower has been simmered in this gravy Fig. 387. Mode of Serving Small Cauliflowers. until perfectly tender it must be placed in the dish, and kept hot while the well-beaten yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon-juice are added to the sauce. Some rasped Parmesan cheese must be strewed over the Cauli- flower, and browned with a salamander or in front of a clear fire. The sauce must be poured around, or, if preferred, the Cauliflower may be dished on toast, and the sauce poured over, and serve quite hot. Cauliflower320 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. may also be served with a variety of other sauces, and is prepared in many ways, either as a vegetable, pickle, or for garnish, as the accompanying large variety of receipts will testify. Small Cauliflowers look well piled on a folded napkin (see Fig. 3S7). Baked Cauliflowers.—Boil the Cauliflowers whole in the usual way until nearly done, then drain well, and arrange them as close together as possible on a dish that will stand the fire. Pour over them a thick sauce made of good broth, butter, flour, and nutmeg, with egg-yolks stirred up smoothly in it; dust over all some grated Parmesan cheese, and bake half- an-liour in a not too fierce oven. On serving, the rim of the dish may be garnished with slices of smoked tongue or fried sausages. Boiled Cauliflower.—Trim off the leaves of a firm head of Cauliflower, and thoroughly wash it in plenty of cold water in which a handful of salt has been dissolved. If any insects are visible between the branches of the Cauliflower, let it soak in the salted water, with the flowerets down, for an hour : the salt will kill the insects, and they will fall down into the water. About three-quarters-of-an-hour before serving, put 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and j saltspoonful of white pepper into a saucepan large enough to hold the Cauli- flower ; take it from the salted water, put it at once into the saucepan without draining it, cover it closely, set over a gentle fire, and let it simmer and steam until tender, which will be in about half-an-hour. Then, without breaking the Cauli- flower, take it up on a hot dish; let the butter and water in which it was cooked boil very fast for a minute, and then pour it over the Cauliflower, and serve. If a thick sauce is liked, mix 1 teaspoonful of flour or corn-starch, dissolved in 1 tea- cupful of cold water, with the butter and water, boil it for two minutes, stirring constantly, and then serve it with the Cauliflower. After it is carefully washed, the Cauliflower may be boiled until it is tender, and then drained, and served with white sauce; or covered with sauce and breadcrumbs, and browned in a hot oven ; or when the heads are small and defective, either boiled or served in branches instead of entire, or mashed through a colander, and heated with salt, pepper, and butter. Cold boiled Cauliflower is very good fried plain in butter, or broken in branches and fried; or mashed and fried, with the addition of an egg, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Boiled Cauliflower in American Style.— (1) Pick off the outside leaves and soak in cold salted water, top downwards, for an hour to cleanse it thoroughly; then tie it in a twine bag to prevent breaking, and cook in boiling salted water for fifteen or twenty minutes, or until tender. If not boiled in a bag, remove the scum before it settles on the Cauliflower. Serve in a shallow dish, and cover with a cream or hollandaise sauce ; or add a little grated cheese, cover with cracker-crumbs moistened in melted butter, and bake until the crumbs are brown ; or, when cold, serve as a salad with mayonnaise dressing. (2) Take a large white Cauliflower, trim off the outer leaves, and boil it in a pan with water, with a little bicarbonate of soda and 1 table-spoonful of salt added. Place it on a dish, and pre- pare the following sauce : Put 3oz. of butter into a saucepan, let it warm on the fire (but not enough for the butter to oil), and then add 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour, 1 gill of boiling water, and a little cream. Put it on the fire and let it boil, then add 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley and i tea- spoonful of chopped onion. Boil for one minute more, then add the yolks of two or three well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a little salt to taste. Cut the Cauliflower into small branches, put them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. Boiled Cauliflower with Butter.—Take one large or two small Cauliflowers, and pare, pick, and examine them well to see if anything adheres which should be removed. Wash them thoroughly in fresh water, and then put in a saucepan, cover with cold water, season with 1 handful of salt and J pinch of pepper, and add loz. of kneaded butter. After cooking about thirty minutes, drain them through a colander and lay them on a dish, pouring over them a sauce made of loz. of butter, 3 pinch each of salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. They are then ready to be served. Cauliflower-and- Asparagus Salad.—Boil a head of Cauliflower in some salted water, keeping it rather underdone than other- Cauliflo wer s —continued. wise, and boil also some points of asparagus. When ready, drain the Cauliflower, break the branches apart, place them in the centre of a salad-bowl, and arrange the asparagus points round as a border, putting the cut ends close to the Cauliflower. Sprinkle some chopped capers on the top, and serve the salad with a plain cream dressing. Cauliflower in Batter.—Put a breakfast-cupful of cooked Cauliflower branches into a double boiler with 3oz. of butter; season to taste with salt and pepper. Beat four eggs well with 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and pour them over the Cauliflower. Place the double boiler over the fire and stir the mixture until set. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Cauliflower with Crayfish.—Take twenty-five small cray- fish and ten larger ones, and cook them. Pick the tails and claws out of the small ones, and keep them covered over ; then take the ten large ones and serve them the same way, but these latter are to be kept hot. Put a good Cauliflower into salted water and boil it; then with a little of the crayfish liquor and a little of the Cauliflower liquor make some butter sauce, adding the yolks of a few eggs to thicken it, and then putting in the tails and claws of the twenty-five small cray- fish. Take out the Cauliflower, put it on a strainer to drain, dish it up, mask it with the sauce, and put the large tails and claws round it. Cauliflower with Cream Sauce.—In the usual way Cauli- flower takes from half to three-quarters of-an-hour to cook, and it should not boil rapidly or it will destroy the small flowerets. Try the stems with a fork, and remove as soon as tender. Put a piece of bicarbonate of soda the size of a bean into the water, and this will hasten the cooking without injuring the vegetable. Divide the Cauliflower into portions of convenient size before cooking, and when drained and dished up pour 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of good strained cream sauce over each portion. Cauliflower Cream Soup.—(1) The clear white broth that has had an old fowl boiled tender in it is best for such a soup as this, and any pieces or bones from the breakfast or dinner meats may be put into the stockpot with it to make it richer. Take lqt., more or less, of stock, 1 pint of rich milk, 1 pint of cooked Cauliflower sprays, 1 table-spoonful of butter, salt, and white pepper, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, half a blade of mace, and a small allowance of any vegetables at hand, Cauliflower being the principal one. If cooked for the purpose, pick the Cauliflower into little branches, and boil it separately in salted water for half-an- hour. Strain off lqt. of the stock clear and free from grease into a saucepan, and boil it with 1 table-spoonful of minced onion; then mash 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked Cauliflower, and put it in; boil 1 pint of rich milk, and add that; season with a little white pepper and salt; thicken, if not thick enough already, till it looks like thin cream, with flour-and- water thickening; then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and the other breakfast-cupful of cooked Cauliflower branches, and sprinkle with 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley. (2) Pull the Cauliflower into separate branches, and boil them for half-an-hour in salted water. Strain lqt. of stock into a saucepan, and skim off all the fat; mash about half of the Cauliflower, put it into the soup with a finely-minced onion, and boil it. Put a lump of butter into another sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, ■and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in gradually 1 pint of new milk, season with pepper and salt, and boil it. Pour the thickened milk into the soup, add the remainder of the Cauli- flower branches, not mashing them, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Serve in a tureen with a plateful of sippets of toast, or of croutons of fried bread. Some clear chicken broth is best for the above soup, and any pieces of meat or bones may be put into it to make it richer. Cauliflower Fritters.—Cut into equal-sized pieces two well- boiled Cauliflowers, dip each piece into thick yellow or white sauce, and set them aside to cool. Take them up with a spoon, put them into a basin of frying batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good colour. Serve very hot on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 3S8). If preferred, the pieces of Cauliflower may be dipped into a mixture of vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper in place of the batter, and then fried.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 321 For details respectina Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. Cauliflowers for Garnishing. — (1) Cut as many heads of Cauliflowers as may be required into small sprigs; trim these, and put them into a stewpan ; add a little salt, pepper, and butter to the water, and set it upon the fire to boil. When done, take them out and drain upon a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a little bechamel sauce, warm up, and they are ready to use. (2) Take a good Cauliflower and cut it into small heads of about 2in. in diameter; throw these into boiling water to blanch. Let them cool, drain, put them into a pan of water, and boil, adding a little salt and butter. They should be a little underdone so that they will not break into pieces when being dished up for garnishing. (3) Wash the Cauliflower, trim off the outside leaves, then put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain and plunge the Cauliflower into cold water; drain it again, pressing out as much of the water as possible, and chop it finely, throwing away the pieces of hard stalk. Put a large lump of butter into a stewpan, then put in the Cauliflower, dredge a small quantity of flour over it, and stir over a brisk fire. When the Cauliflower is nicely browned, pour a few table- spoonfuls of broth over it. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil until the liquor has sufficiently reduced, then use for a garnish. Fig. 388. Cauliflower Fritters, Cauliflowers au Gratin. — (1) Take two Cauliflowers, and pick, wash, and clean them. First cut off the stalks, and then cut them into quarters, removing the rough skin round the stalk. Put the pieces into a large basin of water with 1 pint of vinegar added, so that in the event of there being worms of any sort in them the vinegar will remove them; then put them into 2qts. of boiling water to blanch for a few minutes, take them out, put them into 2qts. of fresh water with Joz. of salt, and boil. As soon as they are done remove them from the water at once, as they continue to cook as long as they are in the water. Now take a 2qt. stewpan, put in loz. of butter and 1-joz. of flour, and stir this over the fire to make a roux; then add 1£ pints of water, 2 small pinches of salt, and 3 pinches of pepper, and boil for ten minutes, next adding loz. each of grated Gruytre and Parmesan cheese ; let it remain for five minutes longer to reduce. Cut the Cauliflowers in pieces, put a layer at the bottom of a vegetable-dish, then a layer of the sauce, heaping up the remaining Cauliflowers and pouring the rest of the sauce over them. Sprinkle loz. of grated Parmesan cheese over all and 1 table-spoonful of bread raspings, baste with |oz. of melted butter, place the dish in the oven for a- quarter-of-an-hour, brown the top with a salamander, and serve. (2) Put two or three Cauliflowers into a saucepan of water and boil them until they are tender ; then take them out, drain, cut off all the stalk, and put them in a heap in a gratin-dish previously well rubbed with garlic. Bone and wash a couple of anchovies, chop them up with a few capers, and mix in 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, with salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle the Cauliflowers over with this mixture, pour over sufficient clarified butter to moisten, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for from ten to twelve minutes. When done, and lightly coloured, take out the dish, and serve. Cauliflowers—continued. (3) Put a Cauliflower into a saucepan of water, boil it until it is about three-parts done, and then separate it into natural sections. Prepare a melted-butter sauce, mixing in a little grated Gruyi-re and Parmesan cheese. Put a layer of the Cauliflower on a baking-sheet, cover over with the sauce, and continue in this way until the whole is used up. Sprinkle a little more grated cheese over the top, then a few breadcrumbs, pour over a little hot butter, and bake. When done, put it on a dish, and serve very hot. Care must be taken to cover the Cauliflower with the sauce. Should the cheese be objected to, it may be omitted. (4) Bare, pick, cook, and drain one large or two medium- sized Cauliflowers; then cut off the roots, place the Cauli- flowers on a buttered baking-dish, and cover them with 1 pint of bechamel sauce, to which 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese have been added. Sprinkle the top with 3 more table- spoonfuls of grated cheese and a few breadcrumbs, place the dish in the oven, and let the Cauliflowers get a golden- brown colour. It will require about twenty minutes for cooking, but care must be taken to turn the dish frequently, so that the Cauliflowers will be equally well browned all over. (5) Select a large, white, firm Cauliflower; trim off the outside leaves and round the stalk, then put it into a bowl of water with a large lump of salt, and leave it for half-an- hour or so. Drain the Cauliflower, rinse it in more water, then put it, flowerpart downwards, into a saucepan with boil- ing water to cover; add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil quickly for fifteen minutes, removing the lid of the saucepan when the water begins to boil quickly. At the end of that time di-ain the Cauliflower and wrap it tightly in a thick towel to keep it hot and absorb the moisture. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 teacupful of water; stir over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and mix in 3 heaped table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or any strong old cheese, and £ teacupful of thick cream. Season the sauce to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Remove the towel and place the Cauliflower on a gratin-dish, or any dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table (the flower part should be upwards); pour the sauce over it, sprinkle a small quantity more of grated cheese over it, and bake in a brisk oven. When the Cauli- flower is nicely browned on the top, take it out of the oven, and serve without delay. Cauliflowers en Mayonnaise.—Take some large cold boiled Cauliflowers and break them into small branches, adding a little vinegar, salt, and pepper to season them ; then heap them on a dish, making them come to a point. Surround the dish with a garnish of cooked carrots, turnip, and green vegetables, pour plenty of white mayonnaise sauce over all, and serve. Cauliflower with Parmesan Cheese. —(1) Take a Cauliflower and break it into tufts ; wash these thoroughly, and put them into salted water to boil, but not to cook too soft. When they are done, strain them, and put each piece into warmed butter first and then into grated Parmesan cheese, seasoned with dry mustard, salt, and pepper. Put the pieces neatly together on a dish, pour over a little warmed butter, and put the dish in the oven for five minutes to bake. When done, serve at once. (2) Boil the Cauliflowers, mask the top with Mchamel sauce, and grate Parmesan cheese over. Melt a small quantity of fresh butter, of which pour a little here and there. Then strew the Cauliflowers over with breadcrumbs and more grated cheese, and colour with the salamander. Wipe the border of the dish, mix a little Parmesan cheese with some veloute sauce and a little fresh butter, warm the sauce, season it well, and pour it gently round the Cauliflower. If it should happen that you have neither bechamel nor any other sauce ready, a little melted butter (butter sauce) with some glaze in it will answer the same purpose. (3) Trim off the discoloured outside leaves of the Cauliflowers, wash them in plenty of water and clean them thoroughly. Place a saucepan of water over the fire with a lump of salt, and when it boils put in the Cauliflowers, dredge a small quantity of flour over them, and boil until cooked. Mix about 2oz. of 2 OrTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 322 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. grated Parmesan cheese in about ^ pint of white sauce, and stir it over the fire until hot. When cooked, drain the Cauliflowers, put them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table, pour the white sauce over them, strew finely-grated breadcrumbs over, and baste them with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the Cauliflowers into a brisk oven until browned on the top, or brown them under a salamander. Serve hot. Cauliflower Salad.—(1) Boil one large Cauliflower for half- an-hour in 2qts. of water to which 1 table-spoonful of salt has been added; then take it out to drain, and when cold divide into small branches. Arrange these in the centre of a dish, and garnish with a border of strips of pickled beet. Pour cream dressing, or a breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise dressing, over the Cauliflower, and arrange a star of the pickled beet in the centre (see Pig. 389). Serve as soon as possible after preparing. (2) Take a medium-sized head of cooked Cauliflower, pare off the root, and detach the Cauliflower into equal-sized flowerets; place these in a salad-bowl, season with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, and sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley; add 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 of oil, mix all well together with a wooden spoon, and serve. Cauliflower Sauce.—Take two Cauliflowers, clean them thoroughly, then boil them in salted water, and remove the tops, so that the flowers will fall to pieces, picking them up carefully. Then put 18 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce into a stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of good white broth, salt and pepper to taste, and boil for about ten minutes. Add the Cauliflower and ^ teaspoonful of sugar. Stir them about until well mixed, and then add 2 table-spoonfuls of liaison, made of yolks of eggs and cream or milk. Cauliflowers Sautes.—Cut or divide two or three Cauli- flowers into branches or sprigs, and put these into hot water for two or three minutes to scald ; then drain them, put them into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, grate over a little nutmeg, and boil until they are done. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter and finely-chopped parsley, and toss the pan for a few minutes over a clear fire. Turn them out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Cauliflower Soup.—(1) Trim off the outside leaves of two large or three small Cauliflowers, wash them, and cut into small twigs. Put about 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the Cauliflowers and toss them about over a brisk fire until they are somewhat browned. Pour a suf- ficient quantity of clear broth over the Cauliflowers, put in a bay-leaf, an onion that has been stuck with two cloves, and a small bunch of thyme and parsley; season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the broth gently at the side of the fire until the Cauliflowers are tender, then remove the onion, thyme, and bay-leaf, and pass the Cauliflower and broth through a fine wire sieve; use a wooden spoon to ease the Cauliflower through. Return the broth and mashed Cauliflower to the saucepan, and give it another boil up; when ready, turn the soup into a soup-tureen and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Prepare a little veal or mutton broth, with salt and pepper added to season ; then put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flour to thicken it like cream. Cut up a Cauliflower into small bunches or tufts, put these into a stewpan-with salted water, and boil; when done take them out, place them Cauliflowers—continued. on a strainer to drain, and then put into the soup, taking care not to break them. The yolks of two or three eggs with a little beaten cream, if added, will make a great improvement, and give it a rich taste. Cauliflowers with Spanish Sauce.—The same preparation again as for Cauliflowers with White Sauce. When the Cauliflowers are done, drain them, and put them to simmer a little in a stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce. Cauliflowers with Tomato Sauce.—Boil the Cauliflowers till tender, and drain them; then arrange them on a hot dish. Have ready some rich butter sauce—that is melted butter—with plenty of cream or butter in it, and stir into this some tomato sauce. As soon as it boils up pour it over the Cauliflowers and serve. Cauliflowers with Veloute Sauce.—The same preparation as for Cauliflowers with White Sauce, using veloute instead of white sauce. Make the veloute by putting a small piece of butter in bechamel sauce. Cauliflowers with White Sauce.—Remove all the green leaves, open the Cauliflower, and clear it of live-stock if there be any. Leave the Cauliflower in cold water for an hour ; then put it into boiling water, with a little salt and butter. This vegetable, being very tender, is soon cooked. If you wish to boil it beforehand, take it off the fire when only half-done, as its being left in boiling water will soon finish it. Drain separately, without breaking, dish in the shape of a large Cauliflower, and pour white sauce over them. Cream of Cauliflower.—Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and pour in gradually while stirring 3 pints of white broth, adding | table-spoonful of salt; then put in half a medium-sized Cauliflower, and boil it slowly for thirty minutes. Strain the Cauliflower on a sieve, and stir in | breakfast-cupful of cream. Serve with a handful of croutons souffles. Dressed Cauliflower.—Take a large Cauliflower, lay it in a large bowl, pour over it sufficient cold water to cover, and shake in 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt; let it remain in this for twenty minutes. Have a large saucepan on the stove nearly full of boiling water, take the Cauliflower out of the salted water, drain well, and put it into the boiling water (be sure that the water is boiling very fast when it is put in). Let it boil for twenty minutes ; then, if done enough, take it up and chop finely; add to it l^oz. of butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and ^ teaspobnful of pepper. Stir in an egg beaten up, and mix all well together ; put it on a flat dish, cut |oz, of butter into very small bits and stick them here and there over the top. Put it in the oven to brown, or brown it before the fire, and serve. Pried Cauliflowers.—(1) Wash and trim the Cauliflowers, put them in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil until half cooked. Prepare a frying batter; drain the Cauliflowers, put a good-sized lump of fat or butter into a flat stewpan and make it hot; dip the Cauliflowers into the batter, then put them in the fat, and fry until nicely browned. Lift the Cauliflowers out of the fat with a skimmer, let as much of the fat run off as possible, then lay them carefully on to a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; dust over with a small quantity of salt, and serve without delay, as if not eaten while very hot they will not be nice. (2) Take a good Cauliflower, divide it into small branches, remove the superfluous stalks, and boil in water with a little salt, but so that they are kept firm; then place them in a basin with a little chopped parsley, oil, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, letting them remain for thirty minutes. Drain, flour, dip them in well-beaten eggs, and put them into boiling fat. When they are fried a good colour, take them out, put on a sieve to drain, and dish them. (3) Cut off the leaves of a thoroughly drained and cold boiled Cauliflower, and divide the centre part into small natural sprays; put these into a deep earthenware dish or basin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and pour over a little vinegar. Let them remain in this for half-an-hour; then take out the pieces, drain them well, dip them into batter, and brownTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 323 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. Cauliflowers—continued. in a frying-pan of boiling fat. When done, take them out, drain off the fat, put them on a dish, and serve. Gratinated Cauliflowers. - Trim off the leaves of two or three Cauliflowers, leaving only the centres, and boil them in water until they are about two-thirds done; then take them out, drain them, and divide into sprigs or natural sections. Put a layer of these at the bottom of a gratin- dish, cover them over with a sauce made of melted butter mixed with grated Parmesan and G-ruyere cheese, and continue in this way with the layers until the dish is full. Sprinkle a little cheese on the top, then a few breadcrumbs or grated bread, pour a little warmed butter over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until done, and of a good colour. If the cheese is objected to, it may be altogether discarded; but if it is used, it should be mixed with the sauce and not simply grated on the top. Care must be taken that every portion of the Cauliflower is covered with the sauce. Pickled Cauliflowers.—(1) Take two Cauliflowers cut up, 1 pint of small onions, and three medium-sized red peppercorns; dissolve 4 pint of salt in water enough to cover the vegetables, and let them stand in this all night, in the morning draining them. Boil 2qts. of vinegar with 4 table-spoonfuls of mustard and 3 table-spoonfuls of turmeric, then add the vegetables, and boil for about fifteen minutes, or until a fork can be thrust through the Cauliflower. Put the Cauliflowers into wide- mouthed bottles or jars, and pour the hot vinegar over them. (2) Divide one or two Cauliflowers into sections, soak these in salted water for twelve hours, and afterwards boil them in salted water for about four minutes, then put them on a sieve and let them cool. Boil them again in milk-and-water for four minutes longer, and drain. Put them into bottles or jars, pour over boiling vinegar seasoned with mace and white peppercorns, and cover securely. In a few days the pickle will be ready for use. (3) Break two or three dry white Cauliflowers into natural branches, and plunge these into boiling salted water to scald, taking care that they do not colour; then cover them over and let them cool. Put them on a sieve, dust over with salt and pepper, and let them drain for about twenty- four hours. Put them into jars, pour over boiling salted water, and let them stand for ten or twelve hours longer ; drain, and put back into the jars. Prepare a pickle by boiling vinegar with ginger, nutmeg, coriander-seeds, tur- meric, and mustard. When cold, pour this over the Cauliflowers, tie them up closely, and use as required. Puree of Cauliflowers.—(1) Boil two Cauliflowers, and cut the heads up into small branches. Put 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, and place the pan on a moderate fire for about five minutes; then add the Cauli- flowers, and beat well with a wooden spoon; put in 10 table- spoonfuls of good white broth, and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, adding 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and teaspoonful of salt. Pass the mixture through a sieve into another stewpan, add 5 pint of cream or milk, and serve. If it is too thick, add more milk. (2) Select one or two white Cauliflowers, and wash them ; then separate the branches, put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil for five minutes. Drain the Cauliflowers, return them to the saucepan with a small bunch of parsley and a lump of salt, cover with broth, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, turn the Cauli- flower on to a fine wire sieve, and remove the bunch of parsley. Bub the Cauliflower through the sieve with a wooden spoon, return it to the saucepan with a small lump of butter, season with salt and pepper, and stir over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Serve very hot. Scalloped Cauliflower.—(1) Prepare and cook a Cauliflower one hour in salted water ; then drain and break the sprays apart. Put a layer of these in a scallop-dish, moisten with bechamel or cream sauce, and sprinkle in a little grated cheese ; then put in another layer of Cauliflower, and continue as directed before until all of it is used. Cover with breadcrumbs and cheese, dot with bits of butter, and bake half-an-hour in a moderate oven. There should be 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and 1 pint of sauce to one head of Cauliflower. (2) Select a firm white Cauliflower; trim off the outside leaves and stalks, and wash it. Put the Cauliflower in a saucepan, cover it with milk and water in equal quantities, Cauliflowers—continued. add a lump of salt, and boil it until tender, but taking- care not to overcook it, or it will break. Take the Cauliflower gently out of the saucepan, place it on a sieve, cover with a clean cloth, and leave it until cold. Put the cold Cauliflower in a baking-tin. pour 4oz. of warmed butter over it, and strew it thickly with sifted breadcrumbs. Put it in a brisk oven until nicely browned, basting it occasionally with the butter in the pan. When ready place the Cauliflower carefully on a hot dish and serve. See Fig. 390. Scrambled Cauliflowers.—Trim off the leaves from one or two Cauliflowers, and boil them in slightly-salted water. Take them out when done, drain them, divide into branches or natural sections, put these into a frying-pan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. When done, put them on a dish, and serve with pieces of toast or fried bread for garnish. CAVERSHED FISH.—See Soles. CAVIARE.—This word is spelled variously in dif- ferent countries; thus, Caviar, Caviale, Kaviar, Kaveer, and probably in other ways. I11 Turkey it is known as Haviar or Havyar. Caviare is essentially a preparation made from the roe of the sturgeon, chiefly in Russia, along the shores of the Caspian Sea, in which localities several hundred tons are produced yearly. At the mouth of the Volga, and along the coasts of the Danube where the rivers Dnieper and Don empty themselves into the sea, sturgeon are caught in immense numbers for their roes about the month of March, as they journey up the rivers in shoals to deposit their eggs ; and as a single sturgeon is said to hold upwards of 3,000,000 eggs in its roe, it is not only very prolific, but yields a great quantity of Caviare. The exportation of Caviare forms an important branch of commerce in those parts which centre round Astrakhan, and there is also some produced along the shores of the Sea of Azov; but this is not so good as that from the shores of the Caspian. Excellent Caviare is extensively manufactured in Norway, too, especially in the neighbour- hood of Bergen, but, as it is generally flavoured with cloves, it is readily distinguishable from the Russian make. A black Caviare of a particularly delicate flavour comes from Hamburg. In spite of its great reputation and costly rarity, a liking for Caviare is but an acquired taste after all, and one that the average Englishman is very slow to develop. The Russians are the first in order of great Caviare con- sumers, and then come Orientals generally; but in France it is not so much favoured, although imported largely, principally to send on to Italy and Germany in the way of trade. Those who are uninitiated into the beauties of Caviare, pronounce it to be oily, indigestible, unwhole- some, and exceedingly disagreeable to the taste; but epicures find flavours in the concoction that are unappre- ciated by the rest of mankind. 2 g 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 324 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Caviare—continued. The best Caviare is undoubtedly that prepared from the roe of the sterlet, or young sturgeon, which in Russia is carefully collected and preserved for the Imperial table. Caviare is generally known as d’ilcra, signifying “ eggs,” and consists of four different kinds. (1) Caviare Grenu (grained).—This is prepared by collecting the eggs in a sieve, and cleaning by passing a steady current of water through them, stirring freely so as to thoroughly wash them all. Then they are left to soak for an hour or so in strong brine, and after- wards drained off through a tammy-cloth. This kind of Caviare is reckoned the best and most expensive, and requires to be eaten quite fresh. (2) Caviare Compacti (solid).—The mode of prepara- tion is somewhat the same as the grained ; the eggs, when soaking in the brine, being kneaded with the hands to make them soft. They are then put, 41b. or so at a time, in strong silk bags, which are twisted tightly until all the brine is squeezed out, and the Caviare is dry. In this condition, it is packed in barrels for exportation. (3) Dried Caviare.—Another kind, prepared by brin- ing the eggs as soon as they are deposited by the fish, leaving them for six or seven hours piled up in barrels, straining them from the brine, salting again, again drying and laying them in the sun to harden. (4) Red Caviare.—This is a very inferior quality, made from the roe of any fish, such as the grey mullet, or sea carp, caught in the North Sea. A very excellent Caviare, that commands general favour, can be prepared and served as follows : Take out the roes of several full-grown fresh sturgeons, put them into a bowl of water, remove as many of the fibres as possible, and beat the roes in the water with a whisk until they are all out. Should any of these fibres adhere to the whisk, they must be taken off and thrown away. Put the .fine part or grains of the roe into a sieve, pour away the water and add fresh, replace the roe, and whisk well again. Continue to change the water and whisk until the former is quite clear, and all the fibres are removed by the latter. Drain these grains of roe, put them into a basin, sprinkle over sufficient salt and pepper to taste, tie them up in canvas, and hang them up where the water can drip from them. When drained they are ready for use, and may be eaten raw or on buttered toast, and sprinkled over with chopped onions. If the Caviare is wanted to be kept for any length of time, plenty of salt must be mixed with it. Very good imitations of Caviare are manufactured in the vicinity of Marseilles, and along the shores of the Mediterranean, especially at Tunis. It is called Bou- targue, or Poutargue, and is prepared by treating the roes of the mullet, shad, and other fish as described for Caviare. In the Indian Archipelago, and in the numerous rivers of Sumatra,' these fish are very common and grow to a great size, and lead to a great trade, without any undue destruction of fish. The Indians set branches of cedar-trees overnight in the water in the spawning- season, and in the morning they are usually covered with spawn; this is collected in baskets made expressly for the purpose, and when the spawn is in sufficient quan- tities the Indians set to work and roll it up into balls with their hands, setting these in the sjm to dry. Herring- eggs are considered very good prepared in this way, and the Spanish Americans make cakes of these and other fish eggs, salted, rubbed into paste, pressed into masses, smoked, cut up into thin slices, and served. Canapes of Caviare.—Cut two or three slices of bread about jin. in thickness, and then cut them up into rounds with a biscuit-cutter, of about 2in. in diameter; put these in a pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown colour. When done, spread a layer of Caviare on the rounds, and serve them on a dish covered with a napkin, or ornamental dish-paper. Caviare with Eggs.—Cut some slices about jin. thick off stale French rolls; butter them with anchovy butt dr, or fry them lightly in butter. Spread over each slice a thick Caviare—continued. layer of Caviare, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and add a dust of pepper and salt. Have ready some hard-boiled eggs, peel them, and cut into slices, using a very sharp knife; lay the slices of egg one on each slice of bread, and serve on a dish with an ornamental paper. A little chopped mustard-and-cress salad spread over the Caviare is a great improvement. Caviare Rolls with Oysters.—Sift lib. of flour, and add to it 1 pint of warm milk with Joz. of yeast dissolved in it, and with this make a sponge (see Bread). Put Rb. of flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, and add the yolks of three eggs, a little salt, 3oz. of warmed butter, and a little milk slightly warmed into it; mix all well together to make a stiff paste, and work it sharply with the hand. When the dough has risen to double its original bulk, put it into the paste, beat up for five minutes longer, place a cover over it, and put it in a warm place for two hours to rise. After Fig. 391. Caviare Roll, with Oyster. a while put it on the board or table (previously floured), cut it into quarters, roll them into long shapes, cut trans- versely to about the size of a walnut, and taking the pieces one at a time, roll them to a ball with the hands. Set these a little apart upon a baking-sheet, let them stand for thirty minutes, then egg them over, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them out, let them get cold, cut them open at the top, take out a little from inside, and fill up the hollow with Caviare; place a raw oyster in the centre of each (see Fig. 391) and serve. Splendid little savoury entremets. Caviare on Toast.—Prepare six rounds of toast of white bread. Put 2 large table-spoonfuls of Caviare into a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of cream, and heat for a-minute-and-a-half at the side of the fire, stirring carefully meanwhile. Pour this over the toast, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Mock Caviare.—This will hardly be appreciated where the real thing- can be procured, but failing that it may be made by pounding some boned anchovies with a clove of garlic in a mortar, and mixing with them lemon-juice or vinegar, cayenne, a few drops of salad-oil, and salt to taste. Spread this upon bread-and-butter, or buttered toast, and serve. CAYENNE.—See Capsicums. CECILS.—These are commonly described as “fried balls of savoury minced meat.” They are very tasty, and prepared as follows : Trim off the fat and hard skin from any kind of cold cooked meat, finely mince the lean, and mix with it some grated crumbs of stale bread, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions, some chopped anchovies and chopped parsley, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes; then leave it till cold. Take it out, divide into small equal quantities, shape these into balls, brush them over with beaten egg, and coat with finely-grated breadcrumbs. Melt a piece of lard or butter in a frying-pan, and fry the balls till they are of a nice golden brown. When cooked, drain them, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear beef gravy. CEDR.AT.—See Citron. CELERIAC (Apium graveolens rapaceum) (Fr. Celeri- acbe).—Tbis is a variety of celery having the root shaped liked a turnip (see Fig. 392), that being the part eaten. It is a great favourite in Germany and other parts of325 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Celeriac—continued. the Continent, where it is boiled and eaten when cold, sliced and dressed with oil and vinegar. It is imported from Hamburg, and is not much cultivated in England. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” describes it as a turnip-rooted variety of the garden celery, very useful for soups, and easily cultivated. Boiled Celeriac. - -(1) Take some Celeriac, remove the peel from the roots, and cut them into slices, or quarters; then put them in boiling' salted water, or meagre broth, and keep them boiling until done. Put them on a strainer to drain, and serve either simple or with melted butter. (2) Peel the required quantity of Celeriac, cut them into slices, and put these into a basin with water flavoured with lemon-juice or vinegar, leaving them to soak for several hours ; then put them into a saucepan with a good supply of boiling salted water, and boil until done. Take them out, drain, pour over a little sauce made with butter, yolks of eggs, and lemon-juice, and serve. If preferred, after the Celeriac has been boiled they may be stewed gently for a little time in rich brown sauce. Puree of Celeriac.—Procure a root of fresh young Celeriac; remove the discoloured outside peel, wash it in plenty of water, and cut into small pieces. Put it into a stew- pan with 4oz. of butter, more or less, according to the quantity, and toss it about over a brisk fire until beginning to brown. Then put in with the Celeriac a small bunch of thyme and parsley, and half a bay-leaf, tied together, and a small onion with two cloves stuck in it. Pour in sufficient clear broth or water to cover the Celeriac, and boil until tender. When cooked, turn the Celeriac on to a fine wire sieve, throw away the bunch of herbs and onion, and rub it through the sieve with a wooden spoon. Put about 2oz. of butter into the stewrpan, melt it, then put in the mashed Celeriac, add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and keep it stewing gently at the side of the fire for an hour or more, stirring occasionally. Serve while very hot; if it is too thick, a small quantity of boiling broth or water may be mixed in with it. Stewed Celeriac.—This kind of celery is almost a foreigner in England, and is prepared as follows: Cut off all the leaves from the required quantity to about lin. from their roots, and if the latter are large, divide them into quarters. Wash them thoroughly in several waters, blanch them in boiling salted water, and drain thoroughly; then put them into a saucepan with some rich sauce, and simmer gently until the roots are done. Put the Celeriac on a dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. The sauce should be of the con- sistence of cream when done. CELERY (Fr. Celeri ; Ger. Sellerie; Ital. Sedano ; Sp. Apio) (.Apium graveolens).—An aromatic plant of the same race as the parsley. It lias been cultivated from wild smallage, and is now grown extensively in this and other countries as a flavouring vegetable or salad. To the Italians we are indebted for the perfection to which Celery has been brought in cultivation, and to them also is due our first knowledge of its culinary value. It was introduced into England about the middle of the seven- teenth century. Celery is generally sent to table raw (see Fig. 395), to be eaten with cheese as salad, the leaf-stalks having been blanched during growth by heaping the earth round them as they spring from the ground. The juice of the stalks contains sugar, mucilage, starch, and a substance resembling manna-sugar; this latter giving to it health- restoring virtues of no mean order. Kettner says of it: “ Also it makes a soup of itself; it makes a sauce of itself; it is excellent plain-boiled; a sea-kale ; it will stew to perfection; and it makes a salad which is not only Fig. 392. Celeriac. Celery—continued. good in itself, but also doubly good because it may be had when other salads fail.” Celery is seasonable from September to April. See Fig. 393. Fig. 393. Celery Plant. Curling Celery.—A famous cook gives us the following in- structions : Slit the stalks with a pen-knife closely if the fringe is to be fine, taking- care that the slits all end at an even line. Where a large amount of Celery is used every day, set on the tables in Celery-glasses, a kind of rake is used instead of the pen-knife, and this rake is made by driving a number of the three-edged sacking-needles of the smallest size through a soft piece of cigar boxwood. The Celery ends are combed with this, and set in glasses of ice-water to curl at leisure. Fig. 391. Oak Celery-stand. Serving Celery in a Glass.—Well wash two or three heads of fine white Celery, pare off the green stalks and trim the roots neatly, taking care to save the clear white hearts. Cut each head lengthwise into quarters, rinse them again in cold water, and let them remain in clean water with a piece of ice in it until wanted. Arrange. them in a Celery-stand (see Fig. 394) or glass, or dress on a china dish with a few pieces of ice in the centre, and serve.326 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heaas Celery—continued. Baked Celery.—Well wash and trim a couple of heads of Celery. Cut them into small pieces about |in. long’, throw them into boiling water with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil for ten minutes, then drain them in a colander, and put back into the saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, loz. of butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt to taste, and let them get quite hot; let them simmer for three minutes, pour the whole into a bowl, and let it cool. When it is cold enough beat up an egg, and stir it into the sauce. Butter a flat pudding-dish, pour the Celery into it, strew plenty of fine breadcrumbs over, cover it, put it in the oven, bake for twenty minutes, then uncover it, and let it remain in the oven till brown. Baked Celery with Cheese.—Let the Celery be cut small, about lin. long, and split to look a little like macaroni. Boil in water for ten minutes about 1 pint of these pieces, drain, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, 1 teacupful of butter, add a little pepper and salt, and bake for a time in a pan. Pour over the top J teacupful of rich stock, and serve in a tureen. Fig. 395. Celery Prepared for Cooking or the Table. Boiled Celery.—(1) Cut off all outside pieces, and trim the roots of three heads of Celery; cut them into 6in. lengths, wash them well, and tie together. Cover them with boiling water in a saucepan, add some peppercorns, a piece of mace, an onion, and a little salt, and boil them. Put 1 dessert- spoonful of flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter in a saucepan, and when it is melted add sufficient water to that the Celery was boiled in to make the sauce. Beat the yolk of an egg with the juice of a lemon, and stir it in with the sauce when it is off the fire, adding a pinch of salt. When the Celery is done, put it on a dish, cut off the string that ties it together, and pour the sauce over. (2) Wash, trim, and blanch ten small heads of Celery, and blanch twelve medium-sized onions. Put the Celery and onions in a stewpan, cover with veal stock, and let them boil gently until they are tender; then lay the Celery on some slices of toast, and put the onion? round the dish. Reduce some white bechamel sauce with 1 pint of the stock the vegetables were boiled in, and when it is thick add a little sugar and \ gill of very thick cream. Pour it over the Celery. (3) Carefully wash half-a-dozen heads of Celery without breaking them apart, and trim off the roots and green stalks; boil them in salted boiling water until just tender, but not until it begins to break; drain, and serve with any sauce. The Celery is dished on toast, like asparagus, or served with the sauce poured over it. Boiled Celery with Cream.—(1) Cut six heads of Celery into pieces about 3in. long, wash these thoroughly in plenty of cold water to remove all the grit, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are quite tender. Pour 1 break- fast-cupful of cream into a saucepan, mix in a lump of butter kneaded in flour, season with salt and grated nutmeg, and boil over a clear fire until the whole is quite thick. Take out the Celery and drain it, put it into the saucepan with the cream, and warm it thoroughly, without boiling ; then arrange the pieces on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Chop off the green parts of three or four heads of Celery, cut the white into pieces about 3in. in length, wash them well, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil until tender. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream C elery—con tinned,. into a saucepan, add the strained and well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste ; then drain the Celery and add it to this, and boil well until the liquor is thick. Cover a dish with slices of toast, pour the Celery mixture over them, and serve. Braised Celery.—Take a few heads of Celery and trim each stick, leaving only the white part; then tie them in bundles and parboil for about ten minutes, next throwing them into cold water. Take them out after a few minutes, drain them upon a sieve, afterwards place them in a stewpan with some white stock, and let them simmer gently for about an hour. When done, drain them upon a napkin, and dish up upon croutons of fried bread. Pour some good brown sauce, to which has been added a little chicken glaze, over the Celery, and serve. Celery Cordial.—Not much used, but very aromatic if well made. To 21b. of bruised Celery-seeds put lgall. of proof spirit and lgall. of syrup made from white sugar. Let it macerate for a month, clarify, and bottle for use. Celery •with Cream.— (1) Cut off the outside pieces of some Celery, remove the hard stems, and cut it into the lengths required; well wash these and boil them in plenty of water for ten minutes ; then drain, refresh in cold water, and cut to equal lengths. Put them in a stewpan with some pieces of bacon and 1 pinch of salt, cover them with broth that has not had the fat skimmed off, and add the juice of half a lemon or 1 wineglassful of white wine; put a sheet of paper over the top, and boil them on a moderate fire till they are done. Take them out carefully one by one and drain them on a sieve, trim nicely, arrange on a dish, pour over some bechamel sauce reduced with 1 teacupful of cream, and serve hot. (2) Pare nicely four heads of Celery, cut them into pieces 2in. in length, and wash thoroughly; then remove from the water with the hands and lay them on a napkin, this preventing- sand from adhering to the Celery. Blanch them in boiling salted water for five minutes ; then remove, drain, and put in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, stirring all well together, and moistening with i pint of consoinmd. Cook and reduce the whole for twenty minutes. When done, thicken with two beaten yolks of eggs diluted in 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and add 3 pinch of grated nutmeg. Serve garnished with six croutons. Celery Cream Soup. Put 3 pints of stock into a saucepan with a small piece of lean cooked ham and an onion, both finely minced, and boil for a few minutes. Wash a few sticks of Celery, chop them up (having sufficient to fill a breakfast- cup), boil them for ten minutes, and then strain off all the water. Mix ljoz. of warmed butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it into the boiling stock to thicken it, and pass the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Add the Celery and 1 pint of milk, dredg'e in salt and pepper to taste, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for ten minutes; then sprinkle in a pinch of the green leaf of the Celery finely- chopped, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve very hot. The soup should be frequently skimmed while cooking. Celery Brink (American).—Wash three heads of Celery, and chop them up very fine, together with 31b. of lean beef; put this into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil very slowly for about an hour. Sprinkle in salt and cayenne pepper to taste, pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, and skim well. Beat in the whites" of four eggs, boil again quickly for a few minutes, and pass the liquor three or four times through a cloth until it is quite clear. Add a little browning of burnt sugar, let the liquor cool, and beat in the whites of two more eggs to give a froth to the drink. A third of a glassful of this, filled up with boiling water poured from a height, will be sufficient for a good drink. Celery Fritters. — (1) Wash thoroughly a head of Celery, put it into a saucepan of water and boil it until it is quite tender. Take it out, drain it quite dry, and cut the white stalks into pieces about 4in. in length. Dip these into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until of a good brown colour. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin over a dish, and serve. See Fig. 396.327 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <irc., referred to, see under their special heads. Celery—continued. stewpan with trimmings of bacon, put the heads of Celery in, just cover them with broth, and add a few cloves and peppercorns; then butter some paper and cover the heads with it, and let them simmer gently until they are tender. When they are done, drain, trim, and pile them up in pyramids on a dish. Strain the gravy, skim off all fat, and reduce it to half-glaze ; work up a small piece of butter to a cream, put it in with the gravy, and when it is incorporated pour the whole over the Celery, and serve. Celery—continued. (2) Cut oft' the tops of twelve heads of Celery, leaving about 6in. attached to the root, wash well without part- ing the sticks, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and scald them for about a-quarter-of-an-hour ; then plunge them into cold water, take them out, drain, and tie three of them together. Put sufficient thin slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a saucepan to cover it, place the Celery on this, add a little parsley and salt, a few onions or scallions, and sufficient good broth to moisten. Cover over the whole with more slices of bacon, and then with a piece of buttered paper; boil up, and then simmer until the Celery is done. Take out the bundles of Celery, drain them, cut them apart, put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of butter, and fry. When done, take them out, drain them, put on a dish, and serve. (3) Cut half-a-dozen white stalks of Celery into pieces about 2in. long, boil until tender in boiling salted water, dip them in batter, and fry a golden-brown in smoking-hot fat. To make the batter, mix together smoothly the yolk of an egg. 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, ilb. of flour, and sufficient cold water to make the batter stiff enough to hold the drops from a spoon. A few minutes before using stir into it the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fry the fritters just before they are required for use, laying them on brown paper- for a moment after taking them from the hot fat, in order to free them from grease, and sprinkling them lightly with salt. Celery with Gravy.—Cut off the tops of six heads of Celery, leaving each head 6in. long, trim the outside leaves, and cut the roots to a point. When well washed, put them for ten minutes in boiling water to blanch them, and when they are cool rinse them in cold water. Tie the heads in two bundles, put them in a stewpan with one small carrot, one small onion, one bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, a pinch each of salt and pepper, 1 gill of stockpot fat, 2 gills of water, and 3 gills of broth ; cover some paper over the top, put the lid on, and let it simmer for two hours. When done, take the heads of Celery out very carefully, drain them, and arrange on a dish: three heads at the bottom, then two, and then one. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir it over the fire for three minutes, and then add 11 pints of stock ; stir, and boil quickly until reduced to 1 pint; then strain and pour it over the Celery. Celery with Gravy a la Bonne Femme.— Procure two bunches of well-blanched Celery, and if there should be four heads in each bunch reserve two for table Celery, as hors- d’oeuvres. Pare the outer branches, and clean thoroughly, cutting off the hard and green leaves; then cut them into equal lengths, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, drain, and add ^ pint of broth to the water. Put the Celery with a gill of white roux in a saute-pan, and season with 1 pinch of salt, twelve whole peppers, and j pinch of nutmeg. When the Celery is sufficiently cooked, or after twenty-five minutes, finish the sauce with a gill of clear gravy or |oz. of butter. Place the Celery on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Celery with Half-Glaze. Wash and trim eight or ten heads of Celery, cut them into lengths of 5in. or Gin. each, and trim their roots to a point (see Fig. 397). Wash them thoroughly in several waters, and put them into boiling salted water ; then drain them, and dip into fresh water. Line a Fig. 397. Glazed Celery. Celery au Jus.—Cut a head of Celery into pieces about 4in. long, wash these well, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them. Take them out, drain them, put into another saucepan with a small quantity of oil, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Add a large tomato cut in slices, pour over sufficient beef or mutton gravy to moisten, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the whole is quite done. Take out the pieces of Celery, put them on a dish, pour over the sauce through a fine sieve, and serve. Celery and Onion Soup.—Cut four heads of Celery into pieces about 2in. long; wash them thoroughly free from grit, and boil them for about ten minutes. Take them out, drain, put them into another saucepan with Jib. of onions cut in slices, and add a little each of chervil and tarragon, 1 pinch of salt, a small quantity of sugar, and the required quantity of rich stock. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil gently until the Celery is quite done; then pour the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. Celery with Ox-marrow.—Wash and trim ten heads of Celery, cut them into 7in. lengths, and put them in boiling water for ten minutes to blanch; then drain them, put them into a stewpan, cover with a white stock, and let them boil g-ently until they are tender. Drain again, put them on some thin slices of toasted bread on a dish, with four large pieces of boiled marrow round, and pour over 1 pint of good brown sauce. Previously reduce the sauce with J pint of the stock in which the Celery was stewed, adding a little sugar to season it. Celery Puree.—Prepare half-a-dozen heads of Celery as for Celery with Gravy, drain and wipe them, and cut into small pieces ; put these in a glazing-pan with an equal quan- tity of bechamel sauce ; reduce this well, and then pass all through a sieve by rubbing with the back of a spoon. Add loz. of butter and 1 teacupful of double cream to the puree, with salt and pepper to taste. Celery Salad.—(1) Pare off the green stalks from one or two heads of Celery, trim the roots, and cut them into short shreds; wash these thoroughly in cold water, lift them up with the hands, and drain in a cloth. When well drained, place the Celery in a salad-bowl, and season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1J salad-spoonfuls each of vinegar and oil. Mix well, and serve. (2) Trim off the green tops and outside leaves of one or two heads of Celery; wash the white part and cut it into pieces between lin. and 2in in length, put them in a salad- bowl, dredge salt over, pour in sufficient vinegar to cover, and leave them for an hour or two. At the end of that time, stir the Celery and mix in 1 teaspoonful of mustard, a small quantity of white pepper, and half as much oil as there is vinegar. Stir the Celery well, and then serve. (3) Well wash and trim two. medium-sized heads of Celery, cut them into small pieces about Jin. long. Mix the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste with 1 table-spoonful of the best salad-oil, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful328 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Celery—continued. of mixed pepper and sugar, add and mix in gradually 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. When this dressing is quite smooth, pour it over the freshly-cut Celery, and serve at once. Celery Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing.—Prepare the Celery as for Salad, and when in the salad-bowl season with J pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 3 table-spoon- fuls of mayonnaise dressing. Mix well just before serving. Celery Salad with Remoulade Sauce.—Carefully trim the white stalks of Celery, wash in cold water, cut into lin. lengths, and serve with remoulade sauce made as follows : Peel and grate a medium-sized white onion; rub the yolks j of two hard-boiled eggs through a sieve with a masher, add I to them 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, the grated onion, 4 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne. Mix all these ingredients smoothly, and use them with the Celery. Celery Sauce.—(1) Clean well, nicely pare, and cut into dice- shaped pieces, and then wash thoroughly in fresh water, three roots of fine Celery, using only the white parts. Lift them out with the hand, so that the sand and dirt remain at the bottom of the pan, place them in a saucepan, and cover with fresh water, adding 2 pinches of salt and Joz. of butter. Put on the lid, and cook on the hot stove for twenty-five minutes ; then drain, place in the saucepan again with 1 pint of hot German sauce, toss well for a little while, and serve. (2) Cut some heads of Celery into pieces lin. long, let them stew gently in a little butter till they begin to get tender, then shake over them a little salt and pepper, and add 1 table- spoonful of brown roux and 1 breakfast-cupful of good gravy. Let this simmer gently, skimming as any scum rises, till the Celery is cooked perfectly tender, then serve. (3) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir over the fire until mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of broth, and continue stirring until boiling. Wash three or four stalks of Celery, chop them finely, put them into the sauce, season to taste with salt, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes longer. Beat the yolk of one egg with two or three drops of cold water, move the sauce off the fire, stir the egg in quickly, and serve. (4) Wash and trim two heads of good white Celery. Cut them into pieces about lin. long, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of water and a teaspoonful of salt and stew till tender. Bub 1 table-spoonful of flour into loz. of butter, boil this in a breakfast-cupful of cream, add the Celery to it, and serve in a sauce-tureen. Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowls.-(1) Well wash and trim a head of Celery. Put it into boiling water with 1 table- spoonful of salt, and let it boil till tender. Then drain it in a colander, and cut it in pieces Jin. long. Blend a good table- spoonful of flour with J pint of the broth in which the fowls are boiling. Mix it quite smooth, add loz. of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste, and mix with it J pint of milk. Put it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till it boils; let it boil ten minutes, and put in the pieces of Celery; when quite hot again, pour it into a sauce-tureen, and serve. (2) Take 1 pint of the young part of Celery chopped very fine, and stew till tender in enough boiling salted water to cover it. Drain, add enough hot water to that in which the j Celery was cooked to make 1 pint, and use it in making- 1 pint of butter sauce (melted butter) ; then add the cooked Celery and seasoning, and serve very hot in a tureen. Celery Sauce for Game.—(1) Take a large bunch of Celery, wash it clean, cut it fine, and boil slowly in a little water till it is tender, then add 1 pinch each of powdered mace, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and thicken with 1 table-spoonful i of butter rolled in flour. Boil it up, and pour it in the dish. Half a pint of cream and 1 wineglassful of white wine may be I added with advantage. (2) Cut the white part of some Celery into Jin. lengths, and boil these till tender in veal broth. Take out the Celery when tender, and mince it fine on a dish, so as to retain all the liquor that comes from it. To the liquor in which the Celery has been boiled, add milk or cream and a little flour, to make a white sauce, and season slightly with pepper and salt, allowing the flavour of the Celery to predominate in the sauce. Put in Celery—continued. the minced Celery, stir well, warm up for a minute or two, and serve in a sauceboat. Celery Saute served with. Ox-marrow.—Take six heads of fine Celery, cut off the green leaves, pare neatly, wash thoroughly, drain, tie each head near the end where the green part has been cut away, and blanch them in salted boiling water for ten minutes; then remove, drain, put them in a saute-pan with 1 pint of Madeira sauce,' and cook for fifteen minutes. Arrange the heads on a hot dish, and remove the sti'ings. Add to the sauce in the pan eighteen slices of ox- marrow Jin. thick, and cook for one minute, being careful not to break the pieces of marrow. Pour the sauce over the Celery, and serve. Celery Soup.—Trim and wash thoroughly three heads of Celery, and boil them in 2qts. of white broth. Take them out of the broth when tender, and pass through a sieve. Mix 1 dessert- spoonful of flour and 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour with 1 pint of new milk, stir it into the broth, add a lump of sugar, and season with 1 pinch of salt. Put the Celery in again, stir it until quite thick over the fire, and then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of butter; when it is melted and blended, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve hot. Celery with Spanish Sauce.—(1) Cut a head of Celery into pieces about 6in. long, wash these thoroughly, blanch them, put them into a saucepan over a few slices of bacon, pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, mixed with an equal quantity of rich broth, and simmer gently on the side of the fire for about forty-five minutes. When the Celery is done, place it on a dish, pour round the sauce, and serve. (2) Trim a dozen small heads of Celery the length of the dish upon which they are to be served, blanch them, put them in a stewpan between two layers of fat bacon, moisten with 1 table- spoonful of broth, and let them boil slowly. When done, drain off the fat, put the Celery on the dish, and pour over them some Spanish sauce. If the Celery is warmed up after the sauce is poured over, for about half-an-hour, it will have a richer flavour. Celery on Toast.—Trim the outsides and the roots of three heads of Celery, thoroughly wash them, cut them into 8in. lengths, tie together, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil for a few minutes. Lay some thin slices of bacon in a saucepan, put the Celery on this, add a bunch of sweet herbs, a chopped carrot and onion, a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt, cover it with broth, and let it simmer until done. Mix some flour and a little butter with some of the liquor that the Celery, &c., has been boiled in (having first skimmed off all the fat), boil it until thick, then pour it on a dish. Cut some slices of bread to a uniform shape, fry them in butter, arrange on a dish, and put the Celery on them (see Fig. 398). Celery Vinegar.—Pour lqt. of the best vinegar over loz. of Celery-seeds dried and pounded, and let them steep ten days, shaking every day; then strain, and bottle in small bottles. Very useful for flavouring. Celery with White Sauce.—Trim a dozen heads of Celery, and stew them in a little butter, salt, and water. When tender, drain them, and serve with the white sauce. If it is desired that the Celery shall be very white, blanch it in boiling water to take out the green. Cream of Celery.—Heat J pint of mirepoix in a saucepan with loz. of butter, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and moisten with 3 pints of white broth ; then put in half a bunch of Celery,329 the encyclopedia of practical cookery. For details respectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfec., referred to, see under their special heads. Celery—continued. a little nutmeg', and \ table-spoonful of salt. Boil well for forty-five minutes; then strain through a sieve, add 1 tea- cupful of cream, and serve with small croutons. Cream of Celery a l’Espagnole.—Put two stalks of Celery cut into fine strips in a covered saucepan, with loz. of butter; add 1 pint of good broth, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and boil for thirty minutes. Hub through a sieve, moisten with lqt. of broth, and before serving thicken with two egg yolks diluted in a teacupful of cold consomme. Add 3 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, and, two minutes before serving, loz. of butter. After the egg yolks have been added to the soup it should not be allowed to boil again. Cream-of-Celery Soup. —Boil a trimmed head of Celery in 1 pint of water from thirty to forty-five minutes ; boil a piece of mace and a large slice of onion in 1 pint of milk: mis 1 table- spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold milk, add to boiling milk, and cook ten minutes. Mash Celery in the water in which it has been cooked, stir into the boiling milk, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, and season with salt and pepper ta taste. Strain, and serve immediately. The flavour is improved by adding 1 teacupful of whipped cream when the soup is in the tureen. Fried Celery.—(1) Boil two or three good and well-trimmed heads of Celei'y till half-cooked or a little more; take them out, drain thoroughly, cut them into short lengths, dip them in batter, and fry in hot fat to a light brown. This dish, if well done, is excellent; but it is useless to attempt it without a deep frying-pan, and plenty of oil or fat to fry in. (2) Trim off the green and discoloured parts of the Celery, wash it well, then drain and cut it into pieces of an equal length. Prepare a frying-batter, and put a good-sized lump of fat into a flat stewpan. Make the fat hot, dip the pieces of Celery into the batter, then put them into the pan of fat, and fry until nicely browned. Drain the Celery, letting as much of the fat run off as possible, then put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; dust a small quantity of salt over, and serve. Frizzled Celery.—Select one large head of fine Celery, pare off the green stalks and cut off the root, which can be used for salad. Cut the stalk lengthwise into four equal parts : wash them well in cold water and cut each one into pieces about 3in. long, by doing which all the branches will be separated. With the aid of a small keen knife pare the thin sides a little, making five or six slits in each piece, starting from the top, downwards, leaving Jin. to fin. uncut, and put them in cold water with plenty of ice, letting them remain there for about two hours. Take them out from the ice-water, artistically arrange them on a round glass dish, and serve. Celery arranged and served in this way makes a beautiful effect on the table, but requires time and patience in its preparation. Pickled Celery.—Cut the stalks from two or three heads of Celery into nice equal lengths ; wash these thoroughly in plenty of water, put them in a bowl, cover them with brine strong enough to bear an egg, and leave them for a week or ten days. At the end of that time refresh the Celery in plenty of clean water, and place it on a sieve where it may drain until di'y. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover the Celery, with any kind of spices cared for. Put the Celery in a jar, pour the boiling- vinegar over it, and leave until the vineg'ar is cold; then cover the top of the jar with stout brown paper, and tie it down tightly. Place in a dry store cupboard, and use as required. Stewed Celery.—(1) Trim a few heads of Celery, blanch them in boiling water, drain, and put in cold water. Take them out when cold, and drain all the water from them without pressing. Put them into a pan with a little consomme or stock broth and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and let them stew for an-hour-and-a-half; then pour in upon them 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel or veloute sauce; strain the whole through a strainer, and set in the bain-marie. When ready to serve, add to the sauce a little thick cream, which will enrich it and make it white. (2) Trim off all the coarse outside leaves of the required amount of Celery, wash and pick carefully, to get rid of Celery—continued. any grit that may have insinuated itself between the leaf- stalks, soak in cold water for an hour or so. and then boil steadily for about half-an-hour in a little salted water. When quite tender, pile it neatly on the dish, and pour over it a thick white sauce, rich with cream or butter, and made with the stock in which the Celery was boiled. (3) Take a good head of Celery, wash it well, and cut off the outer stalks. Cut it into pieces, not quite a finger long, lay them in a stewpan, pour over them a teaeupful of white stock, and let them stew gently for half-an-hour. Take loz. of butter and work it into Jib. of flour; after it has stewed for half-an-hour, add this with 1 saltspoonful of salt, J salt- spoonful of ground white pepper, J saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and J teacupful of cream to the Celery. Stir all till it boils, let it boil gently for five minutes, and serve. (4) Take a good head of Celery, wash it well, cut into pieces lin. long, put them into a saucepan, pour on sufficient boiling water to cover, and let them boil till tender. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of flour with 1J breakfast cupfuls of milk, and into this mix 1 teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of ground white pepper. Pour the water off the Celery, and pour on instead the flour and milk seasoned with the pepper and salt; stir till it boils, then add 2oz. of butter, and serve. (5) Wash the required quantity of Celery, and trim off all decayed leaves and outside pieces ; cut the heads lengthwise into quarters, and boil them in enough water to cover till tender. They will take from a-quarter-of-an-hour to half-an-hour, according to size and age. Serve in a vegetable-dish with white sauce poured over, and thin slices of lemon placed round. CELESTINES.—A fanciful name given by a French cook to a mode of serving some sorts of game, probably in commemoration of Pope Celestine V., who founded a very austere branch of the Franciscan order. See Partridges. CELLARING.—The difference between the modern cellar and the Roman cellarium is marked, notwithstand- ing the fact that for an underground store-room we claim no other origin. Natural caves and cells hollowed out of rocks were at one time used for storing provisions, amongst which were enumerated drinks as well as solids; but since the introduction of the pantry for solids, to the cellar has been delegated the preservation and stor- ing of wines, beers, and other choice liquors. In selecting caves for cellars, the Romans showed great discretion— that is, if it were not more a matter of convenience than choice, and it would have been well if such a choice could have remained with us, for in the cave are to be found liquor-preserving qualities of no mean order; such, indeed, as it is almost impossible to secure in the under- ground chambers we have built for ourselves. In the wine districts of the Continent, cave-stores are very much prized by vintners. In this article it would be impossible to enter upon all the details of what are termed “ cellaring,” that is the art of treating various liquors by fining, racking, bottling, or what not; but as all these are exhaustively described and worked out under their various headings, it remains for us here to consider the apartment; its suitability for the several purposes required of it; fittings, and management. Every good cellar should be divided into at least two compartments—one for beer, and the other for wines These might undergo some further sub-division, but this is not material, because very good results can be obtained from a double cellar. This two-fold arrangement is advisable for wines and beers, because the temperatures required differ considerably. Beers are better at a uniform temperature as nearly 55deg. Fahr. as possible; wines will take as high as 60deg. to 65deg. if stored for ripening. When merely racked for immediate use, they will do very well in the beer-cellar, provided the butler takes the precaution to warm them before uncorking. Experienced cellarmen have determined the variousTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 330 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Cellaring—continued. temperatures that are desirable in their stores, and these are given in the following table: Spirits and aerated waters, anything under ... Champagne, Moselle, hock, and other sparkling light white wines Ale, stout, and bottled beer for keeping Burgundy, claret, and other light red wines ... Port, sherry, Madeira, and Marsala Bottled beer intended to mature rapidly Wines in wood for ripening, not over ... 50deg. Fahr. 50deg. ,, 54deg. „ 55deg. „ 58deg. ,, 60deg. ,, 65deg. ,, But the great difficulty experienced by cellarmen is to regulate these temperatures, for cellars are quite as liable to change their temperature with the seasons and weather as other parts of the house. This is some- times overlooked, especially by those who recognise the importance of ventilation. In the summer, if the tem- perature of the cellar is too high, or varies much, ales are liable to fret, becoming what is called “ pricked,” tasting insipid, and sometimes smelling very disagree- able. Red wines and ales when kept in or exposed to a low temperature taste raw and thin, lose their bouquet, and tu rn cloudy. Every cellar, therefore, should be fitted with one or more thermometers, and these should be self-registering, so that the lowest temperature may be indicated as well as the highest. There should also be a thermometer outside the house, so that the cellarman may close the ventilators when the external air is above 5odeg., keeping the internal air generally at that degree by means of ice in buckets. Should the inner and outer air fall below the mean (55deg.), then some form of heating apparatus would be advisable for reasons already explained. Yentilation, dryness, and cleanliness, are also important precautions in cellar management, and must be carried out with a due regard to temperature. The walls should be lime-washed frequently in the summer, and in the winter also when artificial warming is resorted to; the floor of the cellar should be concreted throughout, and washed down occasionally with chilled water, pro- vided the drainage system is good. In a small way, it may be considered that so much care would be thrown away upon a cellar, for a great belief in the unchangeable temperature of the under- ground cells that answer for the purpose frequently leads to neglect. One of the greatest features of a good feast is the liquor, and it is, therefore, quite as well to have it well kept, for then it is superior in quality, and fully repays the trouble taken over it. Wines particu- larly pay for attention, otherwise the best wine will be poor; but with care a second quality wine may be brought to greater perfection. The fittings of a cellar may be either very elaborate or simple. Stands for barrels, called scantlings, made of wood or iron, or both combined, either self-canting or fixtures. Apparatus fitted with weighted levers, screws, or springs, causing the barrel to tilt as it empties, are frequently preferred to the plain stands, although some cellarmen consider that they are pi'one to induce care- lessness, and assert that the automatic action is not always reliable. Of bins for stacking wine, those of iron or earthenware are usually preferred as being easier to keep clean, and permitting the air free access to the bottle all round. Porcelain labels hung on to removable hooks are very useful to indicate the kind, quality, and date of bottling and storing any particular wine, and the intelligent cellarman will certainly keep a cellar- book in which every detail of importance to the wine and stock he has under his charge shall be duly entered up and balanced. CEIiLULOSE.—The woody fibre of vegetables. It is seen in a pure condition in finely-carded cotton, in Cellulose—continued. the best white filtering-paper, ;in linen, and the pith of the elder. Blyth says : “ Pure Cellulose is white, taste- less, innutritious, insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and oils. Dilute acid solutions and dilute alkaline solutions scarcely affect it.” But it is an interesting fact that when acted upon by strong sulphuric acid, it is first converted into dextrine and then into grape-sugar (glucose). CENTERBA.-The name of an Italian liqueur manu- factured in Tocco, from aromatic herbs found growing on the Apennine Mountains. As these herbs are very numerous, the term Cent-erba, or a hundred herbs, is used. \ CEPES.—A kind of mushroom or boletus found in Prance and some parts of the Continent. It is exceed- ingly savoury, and a great favourite amongst cooks. Cepes en Coquilles.—Select some small firm Cepes, mince the heads, put them into a frying-pan with a small lump of blitter, and fry gently, tossing them about. Season to taste, put a bunch of sweet herbs in with them, and when the moisture has evaporated put in a few table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce that has been reduced till of a creamy consistency. Fill some silver shells with the above mixture, level the surface with the blade of a knife, and sprinkle over some grated breadcrumbs; baste each with a table-spoonful of warmed butter, and brown them under a salamander or in the oven. When glazed over the surface, arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve. A few neat sprigs of fried parsley improves the appearance of the dish. Cepes for Garnishing'.— Cut four Cepes into pieces, and cook them in a saute-pan for three minutes with 1 table- spoonful of olive oil, 5 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and half a clove of crushed garlic. Moisten with- 5 pint of Spanish sauce, and serve. Cepes au Gratin.—Take some Ctpes, remove the skin, and wash them ; then cut off the stalks, chop the heads up to a mince, and put them in a frying-pan with a little butter or oil, and a few table-spoonfuls of minced parsley. Put the pan on a brisk fire and fry them, seasoning with salt and pepper. When their moisture is reduced, add a little bechamel sauce, or a little butter well worked with the hand, and a little parsley chopped fine. Let the sauce boil, and pour the mince into a gratin-dish. Then chop up the stalks, fry them in butter, and spread over the top. Sift some breadcrumbs over the whole, baste with birtter, put the gratin into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Cepes Omelet.—Fry six Cepes cut into small pieces in j-oz. of butter for two minutes. Beat twelve eggs in a bowl, season with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, pour them over the C£pes, and make an omelet as described under Omelets. CERCELLES —Fr. for Teal. CEKiVELAS.—Fr. for Saveloys, of which the English name is a corruption. CHABLIS.—The name of a white Burgundy wine grown in the districts round about the French town of that name; but the title must be used somewhat indiscrimin- ately by wine merchants, seeing that many hundreds of times the amount produced there annually is sold in France and other countries as Chablis. In Paris, the term is used generally to denote white wines of the same class, just as cognac is the generic term for brandy. Through- out Europe, the genuine Chablis are held in great repute for the following very cogent reasons: They are strongly alcoholic without betraying it; they have body, finish, and bouquet; are limpid and very white, and distin- guished for health-giving and profoundly digestive qualities; brightly stimulating the mind without intoxi- cating. They keep well, and will bear a sea voyage without suffering, and that made from the grand vintage of 1846 cannot now be procured for money, being331 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Chablis—continued. acknowleged where it is to be found as the gem of the cellar. The chief brands are Moutonne, Valmur Vandesir, Blanchot, Clos, Montrachet, and Montdemilieu. Chablis Cup.—(1) Put about live lumps of sugar into 1 pint of boiling water, with a little lemon-peel added. When the liquor is cold, add 1 wineglassful of dry sherry, lib. of ice, and a bottle of Chablis. (2) Put 1 pint bottle of Chablis and 1 liqueur-glassful of chartreuse, maraschino, or noyeau, into a jar, and place it in ice, putting a lump into the mixture. Just before it is wanted to be served, put a bottle of seltzer water in it. CHACH.—An Indian beverage, made from skimmed milk, and common in almost every native household. CHACOLI. —A light wine, either white or red, made from Chilian grapes, and generally consumed amongst the working-classes. CHAD.—See Shad. CHAFING-DISH.—A dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or for keeping food warm. May be heated by means of coal, spirit, or hot water. CHAMBERTIN.—A very highly esteemed brand of Burgundy wine, remarkable for its delicate but pro- nounced bouquet. CHAMBORD.—This is the name of an old royal castle situated near Blois, in France, which has given a name to certain French dishes, but especially to a mode of dressing carp by larding as in a fricandeau. The story is that when Catherine of Medici married the son of Francis I., the royal couple took up their residence in the castle of Chambord, and, very naturally, Catherine brought with her a staff of her own countrymen cooks. French cooks at that time were not so famous as they now are, or they might perhaps have found means of using up some of the carp which abounded in the ponds and lakes in the neighbourhood of this castle. The Italian cooks conceived the idea of importing flavours into the flesh of the fish which it did not otherwise contain, being, in fact, of a somewhat tasteless character at the best of times. This could be done by larding, as though it were veal, hence to that mode of dressing carp the name of “a la Chambord” is given. Other cooks have in modern times enlarged upon this process, so that the title is sometimes misapplied, and the prime point of larding omitted, or the larding is extended to other fish which do not require it. CHAMPAGNE.—This name is given to a very wide and indefinite class of wines, white or red, still or sparkling, but especially the latter, as understood in this country. The title is derived from the district of Champagne, in France, now represented by the department of Marne, where the rich soil gives to the grapes a quality they would not otherwise be found to possess. The genuine Champagne wines are classified as first and second cuvees, or pressings, and yield mousseux, demi-mousseux, or cremant, and non-mousseux or sillery. The mousseux, or “sparkling” Champagne, is prepared as follows: After the vintage the wine stands till December; it is then racked off into other vessels, and fined with isinglass. In the following March it is put into bottles and corked with great care, the corks being softened in hot water and inserted with much force. The bottles are then stacked in the stores in a sloping position, with the corks I pointing downwards, so that any sediment may collect in the neck of the bottle on the cork, and then by drawing the cork the deposit can readily be removed. Before re-corking, brandy and sugar are introduced in various proportions, or a liqueur of the finest old brandy mixed with a proportion of old Champagne, and in which the purest white sugar-candy has been dissolved ; and to these additions are, in a great measure, due the various Champagne—continued. degrees known in the market as sweet, dry, and liqueured. In Champagne prepared for the English market, the proportion of sugar introduced is very small, and that of brandy very large; whereas for the French and Belgian markets the sugar preponderates over the brandy, and hence their Champagnes are sweeter and less intoxicating than ours. In re-corking, an extraordinary waste of wine ensues from the bursting and breaking of bottles, sup- posed to be caused by the strength of the wine, and buyers are wont to estimate the value of the wine by the amount of breakage—the best wine breaking most bottles; but it is just possible that some of the breakage may be due to unsound bottles or careless handling. The most ex- tensive cellars or storehouses in France are cut out of the chalk hills, forming subterranean caverns of extra- ordinary extent. The temperature in these crypts is low and regular, and the wine is not so subject to be disturbed by external changes of weather or season. The best varieties of Champagne are those manu- factured around Rheims and Epernay. Sillery has a fine amber colour, is dry, spirituous, and possesses a remark- able bouquet; the wines of Ay and Mareuil are less spirituous, but sparkling, and also with a fine bouquet; so also are those of Hautvilliers, Dizy, and Pierry. Saumur is a second-class Champagne of good quality, and several other well-known brands have their claims upon public consideration ; but, although the markets are well supplied with the genuine wine, there are many imitations and shams to be met with sold at low prices, that may be pleasing to some palates, but are as bad as poison to the connoisseur. These are sometimes mis- called “ Tisane de Champagne but although Tisane is an exceedingly light wine, it should be the pure, although much watered, juice of the grape. Recently Champagne has been introduced into this country from the provinces of the Rhine, and the Germans may be congratulated upon their production of such vintages as Neckar, Meissner, and Naumburg. A small quantity reaches us also from the United States, but the sea voyage is against the probable importation from Australia or other distant lands. The notion that cheap Champagnes are made in this country from gooseberries (see British Wines) is a popular delusion, and one that is unworthy of the slightest credence, for the simple reason that, although excellent Champagne can be made from this fruit, the juice of the gooseberry would, from its scantiness and scarcity, be considerably more expensive than the juice of the grape; and there are no plantations in this or any other country which are of sufficient extent to provide the enormous quantity that would be required for the purpose. Factitious Champagnes are sometimes met with concocted from light Rhenish, cider, and other cheap liquors, but happily in most cases these prepara- tions are quite harmless, and often quite as palatable as some Champagne, and are excellent imitations of the genuine thing in taste, appearance, and bouquet. Iced Champagne.—Cover the bottom of a pail, up to three- fourths of its height, with a layer of pounded and salted iee, put the bottles of Champagne in, and let them remain for forty minutes. To 41b. of ice use lib. of crushed kitchen salt. If the iced wine is meant to be placed on the table, the bottles should be placed in small ornamental pails (see Fig. 399) set on a tray, and in this case the neck of the bottles must be clothed with a leather case, to protect the hands of those who uncork the bottle. Mock Champagne. — Use grapes which have been picked when full grown and just beginning to change colour; bruise them in a tub, and for every quart of grapes pour in lqt. of water. Leave the fruit for three days, stirring it once a day; then press it through a cloth, and let the juice stand for four or live hours. Pour the liquor carefully from any sedi- ment, for every gallon mixing with it 31b. of loaf sugar, and turn it into a barrel, fixing the bung in lightly. Leave it for three weeks, or till it has ceased working, and at the end332 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Champagne—continued. of that time mix in some isinglass that has been dissolved in some of the liquor, using \oz. for every 5galls. of the wine. Leave it for three days, stirring it once a day, and on the last day stir in some brandy, using' lqt. for every' 5galls. of the wine. In three or four days bung it down closely, and leave it for six months. Draw off the wine, bottle and cork it, wire or tie down the corks tightly, and keep in a cool, dry cellar. Fig. 399. Iced Champagne. British Champagne.—Put 6galls. of water into a saucepan, add [ 181b. of sugar, boil for half-an-hour on a moderate fire, and skim it well. Put 2galls. of white currants, whole and not bruised, into a bowl, pour over the boiling syrup, and let it remain j until it comes to the temperature of new milk ; then add a j little yeast to ferment it, and let it work for a couple of days. Strain it through flannel, and pour into a cask that holds it exactly. As soon as the fermentation has ceased, add |oz. of bruised isinglass, and bung up securely. Keep the cask in a cool place until the Champagne is clear; then pour it off into bottles, adding a lump of sugar to each, and cork these down securely. It will soon be ready for use. Champagne Cup.—(1) Pour a large bottle of Champagne into a bowl, stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy or curaijoa, 2 wineglassfuls of caster sugar, and 2 large bottles of soda water, all well iced. Put a few lumps of ice to float about, and a sprig of green borage. (2) Put a bottle of iced Champagne, with 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 liqueur-glassful of maraschino, the juice of a lemon or Seville orange, and the peel of the same rubbed with sugar, into a bowl, and add lastly a bottle of seltzer water, with caster sugar to taste. (3) Pour a quart bottle of iced Champagne into a pan on the juice and peel (cut off thinly) of a lemon, 2oz. of caster sugar finely powdered, and a sprig of borage and balm. Cover over the pan, place it into ice until the sugar has dissolved, and then add a bottle of soda water also iced, when it will be ready for use. (4) Pour 1 pint of Champagne into a bowl, add two slices of cucumber, a little borage, and 1 teacupful of water, and let this stand for two hours or more. Strain it into a jug, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, 5 liqueur-glassful of maras- chino, and add also a little syrup. Turn the whole into a freezer, work it well, and serve in glasses. (5) Squeeze the juice of half a good-sized lemon into a fancy bowl large enough to contain 5 pints, and sweeten with 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar; then add 2 liqueur- glassfuls of red cura9oa, one bottle of soda water, and two slices of cucumber-rind. Pour in 3 pints of any brand of Champagne, add about jib. of ice, and then mix thoroughly with a spoon, ornamenting the cup nicely with strawberries, very thin slices of pineapple, a finely-sliced, medium-sized Champagne—continued. orange, and half a bunch of fine fresh mint. Send the cup to the table with Champagne glasses. (6) Put into a large claret-jug | pint of any good water ice, and throw in quickly two bottles of Champagne and two bottles of seltzer water or soda water. Champagne Ice. —(1) Prepare a strong, sweet lemonade, half freeze it, and pour into it a quart bottle of Champagne; shut the freezer quickly, and freeze. The Champagne must be opened as quickly as possible and thrown into the half- frozen lemonade all at once (not slowly poured in), and the freezer immediately shut without waiting to stir, as the mixer inside the freezer will do as much stirring as is necessary. Keep turning the freezer until the ice is sufficiently hard. It is most essential that the Champagne be opened and thrown into the lemonade in the freezer very quickly indeed, as the effervescence goes off so soon; it is also necessary to keep the freezer shut and well packed with ice until serving the ice. (2) Rub off the zest of four lemons with pieces of loaf sugar, put them into a basin with the strained juice of the lemons, pour in 1 pint of Champagne, and add sufficient syrup to sweeten. When well mixed, pour the whole into the freezer, and work well. As soon as frozen, it is ready for use. Champagne (Imitation) for Cooking.—Bruise with a wooden mallet 71b. of green gooseberries and double the quantity of red- fleshed rhubarb, put them into a cask with the head out, pour over 5galls. of boiling water, and leave for four or five days, or until a thick crust is formed on the top. From a tap at the bottom of the cask draw off the liquor, pour it into a mash-tub, and add 3|lb. of sugar to each gallon. Mix well, wash out the cask, and return the liquor to it; add and thoroughly mix in a good supply of beer-finings. Let it stand for a day, then draw it off into bottles, cork, and wire down, and store away in a cellar at about 50deg. Fahr. until wanted for use. To give the wine a good Champagne flavour, add lqt. of elder-flower water to it. Champagne Jelly.—(1) Dissolve 2oz. of gelatine in lqt. of cold water, pour it into a saucepan, and add the juice of two lemons and three oranges, the whites of two new-laid eggs, and all the shells, and 12oz. of sugar; mix well, pour in another pint of water, set the saucepan on the fire, and stir constantly until the liquor boils. Remove it to the side of the fire, and let it keep hot without boiling for fifteen minutes longer. Run it through a jelly-bag, adding a pint of Champagne, pour it into moulds, and let it set. Turn it out, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with ilb. of granu- lated sugar, add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium-sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, add them to the other ingre- dients, grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, add six cloves, and one bay-leaf, and mix well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag- tied on to a jelly-stand. Stir the preparation,333 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Champagne—continued. and when it is coming to a boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly-bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding to it -j pint of Champagne. Let it drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly- mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and afterwards pack it in ice to harden for two hours longer. Turn the jelly out on to a dish, garnish with macaroons (see Fig. 400), and send to the table. (3) Pour lqt. of light calf’s-foot stock into a saucepan,and add 1 teacupful of lemon-juice and 6oz. of sugar. Set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for five minutes, skim- ming frequently as any scum rises. Add a little soaked gela- tine, and stir well until it is dissolved; then put in the whites and broken shells of six eggs to clarify it, and simmer for five minutes longer. Pour the whole into a jelly-bag, and strain it into a mould. When the bag has run dry, pour in 1 pint of Champagne, and pack the mould in ice. Turn it out on to a dish when set and firm, and serve. Champagne Jelly in Glasses. -A charming mode of serving is the following, by Dubois : Put fifteen leaves of gelatine in a basin, cover them with cold water, and let them soften for half- an-hour ; then drain the water off. Ascertain the consistence of the gelatine, pour it into Champagne glasses, not letting the j liquid come quite to the brim, put them in a bucket, surround them with ice, cover the top, and let the jelly set. Pour a little dissolved jelly in a basin, and whip it until it is white and frothy ; then take up table-spoonfuls and put into each of the j glasses when the other jelly is set. When the froth is cool, wipe round the glasses, and serve. Cliampag'ne Punch.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar into a saucepan with half the quantity of water, and boil to a syrup. When ready, pour it into the freezer, add a bottle of Cham- pagne, and work well until frozen. Add the whites of two eggs, beaten up with crushed loaf sugar to the consistence of icing, and work the freezer again. Turn it into glasses, and serve very cold. (2) Put into a vessel 1 pint of cold water and fib. of powdered i sugar, and grate in the rind of one ripe medium-sized red j orange, adding its juice and the juice of one-and-a-half medium- sized lemons, and with the spatula beat well together for five minutes. Strain it through a sieve into the freezer, add f pint of Champagne, put on the lid, set it in an ice-tub, fill the freezer all round with broken ice, mix slightly with rock-salt, and then turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the punch from all round the freezer, and the bottom as well ; then recover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more. Uncover and detach the punch the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put on the lid, and repeat the same three times more. When ready, put it into some punch- glasses, and send to the table. Champagne Sauce.—(1) Place two cloves, six whole peppers, one bay-leaf, and f table-spoonful of powdered sugar, in a saucepan with a good glassful of Champagne. Place it on the fire, and reduce for five minutes; then moisten with J pint of Spanish sauce, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Strain through a fine strainer, and serve. (2) Mix thoroughly in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour ; set the pan on the fire, and stir con- stantly until the mixture is dark brown, then pour into it ' i pint of boiling gravy (the liquor in which pieces of lean meat have boiled until it is very rich). Pour in this gravy gradually, and stir slowly and continually. Let it boil up once, season well with pepper and salt, and strain. Add 1 teacupful of Champagne just before serving. (3) Put 2oz. of butter into a small lined saucepan; melt it, then put in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Pour in f pint of clear gravy, continue stirring it over the fire until boiling and thickened, season to taste with salt, then pour in very quickly while stii'ring £ pint, of Champagne ; boil it up once, then strain it through a fine hair-sieve, and serve immediately. Champagne Syrup. — Pour 2 pints of Champagne into a vessel with 2 fluid ounces of brandy and 1 fluid ounce Champagne—continued. of sherry, and add 31b. of sugar; dissolve this without using heat, and bottle for future use. Iced Champagne and Fruit Jelly.—Get a variety of preserved fruits, wash them in warm water, sponge them carefully, cut into dice, put them in a basin, pour in i tumblerful of cognac, and let them steep for an hour. Put in another basin six or seven leaves of clarified gelatine, and pour over them 1 tumblerful of orange-syrup with half a bottle of Champagne, 1 teacupful of pine-apple syrup, and 1 teacupful of lemon-juice. Pour this preparation into .a freezer, turn the can, and stir the preparation with a large spatula. As soon as it begins to set, work it without leaving off until frothy and elastic. Drain the fruits, and mix with the preparation, which then take up with a large spoon, and with it fill a jelly-mould embedded a-quarter-of-an- hour before in salted ice; cover it with a round of paper, and place on it a pan filled with salt and ice. A-quarter-of-an-hour after take the mould out of the ice, wash it, quickly dip it into tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the jelly out on a very cold dish. Pour over a puree of fruit, or sweetened raspberries, cooled on the ice, and serve it immediately, or keep it cold in an ice-chest. Iced Champagne Granito with Strawberries.— Put a freezing-pot in some mixed pounded ice and bay-salt, and pour in two bottles of Champagne and lqt. of syrup. When it is frozen to icicles, add lib. of crystallised strawberries, and serve in glasses. CHAMPAGNE BRANDY.—A very fine liqueur brandy, distilled from rich champagne wine. CHAMPAGNE CIDER.—See Cider. CHAMPIGNONS.—Amon gst the numerous edible fungi with which France abounds, those commonly known as the Fairy-ring mushrooms or Champignons (Marasmius oreades) are not the least valuable to the cook, possessing powerful flavouring qualities: they are found growing in rings, in dry upland pastures, and a very pretty fancy attributes to them an association with the moonlight dances of fairies. As they are so closely allied in appear- ance to a poisonous Champignon (Marasmius wrens) cooks are not much given to using them, although the two may be readily distinguished. The harmless Champignon (see Fig. 401) has cream-coloured laminae, or “ gills ” as they are commonly called, and the gills of the poisonous Cham- pignon are dark. But the better feature of distinction is that the latter have stems that are hairy, especially towards the root. Again, the edible Champignon is always found in the open country, whereas the poisonous kind mostly frequents woods, but are sometimes found con- sorting with the edible Champignon as a member of the Fairy-ring. A little caution only is necessary to detect l their presence.334 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. CHANTAB.ELLES.— There are several species of mushrooms known by this name, only one of which, how- ever, is recognised as edible (Cantharellus cibarius). By Continental cooks it is much prized, and as it cannot easily Fig. 402. Chantarelles. be mistaken may be used without fear of evil results. See Fig. 402. Stewed in rich gravy they form a splendid accompaniment for delicate meats. CHANTILLY BASKETS AND CUPS.—Con- fectioners now use this title for a very extended class of manufactures prepared from marzipan and a variety of pastes, sugar, orange-peel, and other materials; but Fig. 403. Chantilly Basket of Savoy Cake with Preserved Fruit and Whipped Cream. the original was a Savoy cake scooped out (see Fig. 403), dried in the oven, masked with jelly or marmalade, and filled with preserved fruits and whipped cream. Chantilly is an ancient castle in the department of Oise, in France, and was at one time the abode of the great Prince Henry II. of Conde, and his wife Charlotte, to whose culinary tastes we are indebted for the dishes prepared a la Conde. and others. Chantilly Baskets and Cups are made in all manner of shapes and sizes. Chantilly Baskets and Cups—continued. (1) Line some small breakfast cups with almond paste rolled out very thin, dry them in the hot closet, turn them out, and ornament with scrolls, wreaths, or other design, fixing them in position with gum water ; or they may be made to represent china cups or baskets by fixing a handle surmounted by a bow of ribbon (see Fig. 404), or other decoration, painting flowers, &c., on them. Arrange them on a dish, fill them with whipped cream, and put a few ripe strawberries on the top, if in season. In the illustration crystallised violets are dotted about on the cup, made to adhere by means of jelly. (2) Dip the edges of the required quantity of soft macaroons into.-some syrup, arrange them in the shape of a basket by putting one on top of another, and form a rim or handle of gum-paste, with a piece of stiffish paste-board to keep it in its place. When they are di'y, fill them with cream, and serve. (3) Take some royal paste and make into small choux; roll these out on a board sprinkled over with flour, and bake them, but without glazing. Dip them singly into some hot sugar, boiled to the crack or casse (see Sugar-boiling), by sticking a small skewer in the centre of them; place them round a mould, and stick the edges together, so as to form a basket, taking care that the top rim is well stuck and firm, as it is very liable to break. To form the handles, a half- hoop of tin or stiff cardboard will be required. Stick a chain of the choux together on this and let them set. Fix the handles to the baskets by dipping the ends into the hot sugar after they have been turned out of the moulds, and when they are quite firm and set, fill the baskets with cream, and arrange them on a dish. See Fig. 405. They may be made in any shape, and care must be taken to have the335 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, die., referred to, see Under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Chantilly Baskets and Cups—continued. moulds well buttered or oiled both inside and out, to prevent the sugar sticking. The choux may also be made in any shape—round, square, triangular, &c., but must be of uniform size. (4) Boil some clarified sugar to caramel (see Sugar-boiling), dip some ratafias into it and lay them all round the inside of a dish, take some more ratafias and cut them into squares, dip them too into the caramel and stand them cornerwise on the under row, then dip some more uncut ratafias in caramel and pile them on top of the square-cut cakes, and so on piling the basket two or three storeys high. Line the inside with wafer-paper and put into it sponge biscuits, sweetmeats, a few blanched almonds, and on top of all a lightly-piled whipped cream ; garnish the froth with rose- leaves, candied violets, coloured comfits, or caramel sugar. (5) Cut through the rinds of thoroughly sound well-shaped oranges in such a manner that when the intermediary parts are removed a pattern will remain on the orange representing Fig. 406. Chantilly Basket or Petits Choux. a basket, such as is shown in Pig-. 406. Carefully remove all the fruit of the orange by means of a vegetable-scoop or small spoon, and trim up the basket of peel where any irregularities or want of finish may appear. A very sharp- pointed penknife answers best for cutting the rind. Have ready some thin syrup in a broad pan over the fire, and into this place the baskets, taking care that each shall stand | perfectly upright on the bottom of the pan. Boil up gently for an hour, or until the peel baskets become transparent: then lift each one out separately and stand on a perforated sheet or sieve, carefully oiled, to drain. Lift occasionally so that the bottoms shall not stick. Let the baskets stand in a drying-closet, or near a low fire until the sugar is thoroughly set upon them, then fill with whipped cream (Chantilly cream as it was originally styled), and use to garnish pieces montees, or serve alone ; arrange on a glass or other ornamental dish, covered with an ornamental paper. CHANTILLY CREAM.—This name is given to whipped cream generally, but somewhat ostentatiously and erratically, seeing that whipped cream is of universal fame, and probably used before the Castle of Chantilly was erected. CHAFONS.—Fr. for Capons. CHAPFATEE (CHAPATI), or INDIAN HAND- BREAD. — This native Indian food is prepared by making a simple paste of flour and water, taking a piece about the size of an egg, rolling it out to about lOin. in circumference, and liaking crisp on a griddle over a clear fire. CHAR.—The trout of the Alps (Salmo alpinus, or S. salvelinus) is found commonly in the lakes of Lapland, and in some of the English, Welsh, and Scotch lakes. The lake of Geneva is celebrated for its Char, which is there styled “ Ombre chevalier ” ; and it is not altogether unknown in other parts of Switzerland and in Sweden. The name “ Char ” refers to the colour of its belly, from the Gaelic cear, ceara, blood, which also obtains for it in Scotland the cognomen of “Cardhui,”or red-black (Loch- leven trout), and in Wales “Torgoch,” both terms having Char—continued. the same signification. The finest of these fish weigh about lib. The body is elongated, tail forked, and fins small (see Fig. 407). The back is a dark olive colour, with the sides a shade or so lighter, and spotted with red or white. The belly is light-coloured, and may lie pale, or even deep orange, the particular tint varying with the seasons. The flesh is greatly esteemed, and Francatelli used to observe that treated as trout it was excellent eating, and made by far the best “ waterzootje.” Potted Char.—Clean and scale a dozen large fish, washing them twice in cold water, and each time wiping them dry with a cloth. Then well rub in 1 table-spoonful each of pepper, saltpeter, and very finely - powdered salt. Leave them for about twelve hours raised on a slab or dish a little on one side to drain, then remove the first pickle and put the fish into a large stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of cloves, same quantity of mace, 2 grated nutmegs, 1 dessert-spoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of salt; all of these being very finely pounded. Put a little butter over the fish, and then several layers of thick paper. Cover over with the lid, and put a weight on top to keep it close; put the pan in a moderate oven, and bake for from four to five hours. Take out the pan, and when it has cooled a little strain away the liquor, and place the fish belly downwards into a suitable pan or dish. They should be put quite close together, so that they will not break. Then spread butter, a little warmed, over the top to about lin. in thickness, and smooth as it cools with a spatula. The stock may be used for soups, &c. CHARCOAL. — There are two kinds of Charcoal, both having some valuable uses in cookery. Animal Charcoal, which is made by calcining bones or other animal matter such as blood, and Vegetable Charcoal, which is made by burning wood. Animal Charcoal is generally sold in powder, and is much used for decolouring and deodorising syrups and other foods. It has the remarkable property of abstracting from those liquids with which it comes into contact any sulphuretted hydrogen, organic colourings, or odorous matter; the gas being condensed in its pores. It should be used quite freshly burned, and then it is much more effective, and might be used to restore tainted meats, and purify putrid water. The Charcoal prepared from calcined blood is generally deemed superior to all other for the purposes of the distiller and sugar-boiler. The following mode is usually adopted for preparing animal Charcoal: Make a paste of 71b. of powdered bone Charcoal, lib. of hydrochloric acid, and 1 pint of water; let this stand for two or three days, and then stir into it lqt. of boiling water. On the next day let the acid be washed out by successive waters until the liquor passing from it no longer reddens litmus ; then collect it in a cloth, drain, squeeze, press, and dry it. When this is done, heat it once more to redness, and it is then ready for use. Vegetable Charcoal is generally used as a cleanly fuel, and one which throws out a fine steady heat; but as the vapour teems with carbonic-acid gas it is danger- ously poisonous, hence the use of Charcoal in cooking has fallen into disuse; but with a sufficiently large chimney- escape provided for the burning fuel there is no danger.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 336 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <I'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Charcoal—continued. Charcoal Biscuits.—At one time a very extensive demand for these existed, they having been strongly recommended by physicians for the relief of indigestion and heartburn. They are made by adding a small pro- portion of finely-powdered charcoal to ordinary biscuit dough, and making up and baking in the usual way. See Biscuits. CHARCUTERIE.—This term has been introduced into this country by foreign tradesmen, but with a different signification to that its original use implied. Charcutier is literally a pork-sausage butcher, or one who chops up flesh (chair); in England Charcuterie is applied to garlic sausages, preserved meats, fish, and other foreign foods, and Charcutier to him who sells them. CHARD. — This is a variety of the white beet, producing large succulent leaves, which are prepared for table use by blanching. Chard Salad.—Cut the leaves off the Chard without cutting the midrib, trim the midrib into equal-sized pieces, tie these in small bundles, and boil them for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the bundles, and leave them till cold; then remove the string’s, and place them in a salad-bowl. Mix some oil and vinegar in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, and pour the mixture over the salad, then serve. The leaves of the Chard can be boiled and served as spinach. CHARLOTTES.—Charlottes Russes and Apple Charlottes are the dishes of this name with which we are most familiar in this country, and these are in their simplicity merely an arrangement of bread or biscuits shaped and set in a mould in such a manner that the interior can be filled up with stewed apples, apple or other fruit marmalade. Fig. 408. Charlotte-moulds. The moulds in use nowadays are simply shaped as in Fig. 408, and they are filled by cutting pieces of bread into such accurate shapes that they fit round the interior like the staves of a bucket. The edges are slightly bevelled to make them fit closely, and then the pieces are stuck together with jelly ; an ornamentally cut round fills the bottom of the mould, and then the interior is filled in with a sort of bavaroise, and the whole set upon ice to freeze. By whom this dish was invented, or after whom it was christened Charlotte, is a disputed point. The French confectioner is disposed to attribute it to Charlotte de Medici, wife of the son of the Prince of Conde ; but British confectioners claim it for the famous queen of George III. Goethe seems to have this idea when he wrote of Werther and this queen, for he says: Werther had a love for Charlotte, Such as world could never utter. Would you know how first he.met her? She was cutting bread-and-butter. Possibly in the preparation of a Charlotte. Be that as it may, the dish is a great favourite, and gives a great charm to a supper- or light dinner-table. Chantilly Charlotte.—Line a dome-shaped mould with lady’s- finger biscuits, arranging them fancifully according- to taste; put 1 pint or more of thick cream into a basin and whisk it with an egg-beater until it is a stiff froth. For 1 pint of cream, mix in gradually 4oz. of caster sugar and £oz. of soaked gelatine. Flavour the cream with a few drops of orange- flower water or essence of violets ; pour it carefully ipto the mould with the biscuits, and pack the mould in pounded ice Charlottes—continued. and salt for an hour or two. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould carefully out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Charlottes Glacees.—Take six small Charlotte-moulds, and line them nicely with twelve lady’s-finger biscuits cut cross- wise into halves. Have ready 14 pints of vanilla ice-cream, fill the interiors of the moulds with it, and turn them on to a dessert-dish with a folded napkin over. Divide the remaining ice-cream evenly over the six Charlottes, with one macaroon on top of each; then send immediately to the table. Charlottes Panachees.—Have six Charlotte-moulds lined as for Charlotte Glacees, fill them with I pint of vanilla ice- cream, then turn them on to six cold dessert-plates. Take a pastry-bag, slide down in it a fancy-shaped tube, and pour into it 1 pint of whipped vanilla cream; press a little of this on to the top of the Charlottes, arrange over them six macaroons, press a little more cream, about the size of a nut, on the top of each macaroon, then with the balance of the cream decorate the bottom of the Charlottes all round, and serve. Charlotte Russe.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of milk. Beat the yolks of ten eggs and |lb. of caster sugar together, and put in the double boiler with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk ; stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then add the gelatine, and strain into a large tin basin. Place this in a pan of ice, and when it begins to cool add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, 4 tumblerful of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract, and 1 pint of whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, pour into moulds that have been lined with sponge Fig. 409. Charlotte Russe. cake (see Fig. 409), and set away to harden. With the quantities given two quart moulds can be filled. The lining may be one piece of sponge cake hollowed out, or sti-ips of it, or lady’s fingers. The wine may be omitted. Charlotte Russe may be filled with any kind of cream. (2) Soak loz. of gelatine in cold water till soft, make a syrup with 41b. of sugar, | pint of lemon-juice, and 1 pint of orange-juice. When boiling, pour it into the beaten yolks of four eggs, stir well, and cook in a double boiler till it thickens; then add the soaked gelatine, stir till dissolved, and strain at once into a tin pan placed in ice; beat occasionally till cold, but not hard. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and then beat all together till it thickens. When almost stiff enough to drop pour at once into moulds lined with cake. Keep on ice, and serve with or without powdered sugar and cream. Vary the fruit by stewing 1 pint of tinned peaches, pine-apple, or apricots in 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar and water till soft ; then sift, add the yolks of the eggs, and cook till it thickens. Add the gelatine, strain, and when cool add the whites. Grated pine-apple will not require sifting. (3) Mix 1 pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and 1 tea- cupful of sugar; place the bowl in ice, and when chilled whip to a stiff froth, and skim off the froth into a sieve. Drain, and whip again that which has drained through. When nearly all whipped, line a glass dish with lady’s fingers or slices of sponge cake, fill with the cream, put cubes of wine jelly, or any bright jelly, on the cream, and keep on ice till ready to serve./ 4 J> 6 PICNIC CAKES. x. Lawn Tennis. 3. Coaching, j. Cricket. 4- Boating. 5- Football. 6. Polo.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 337 Charlottes—continued. (4) Flavour 1 pint of cream with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and 1 table-spoonful of wine, and whip to a stiff froth. Beat the whites of eig'ht eggs stiff, add fib. of caster sugar, and mix it lightly with the whipped cream ; fill fancy paper cases with cream, ornament each with thin triangles of sponge cake, and a cube of wine jelly. A small part of the cream may be coloured with melted chocolate or cochineal, and used for decoration. (5) Soak foz. of gelatine in f teacupful of cold water till softened. Chill 1 pint of cream in the ice-chest, line a three- pint mould with one dozen of lady’s fingers, or narrow slices of sponge cake, crust side out; leave a little space between the slices, and have the cake even at the bottom of the mould, which will be the top. Whip the cream and skim off into a metal pan set in pounded ice. Sift 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar over the whipped cream, and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract and 1 table-spoonful of wine. Dissolve the gelatine in a teacupfnl of boiling water, and strain through a fine strainer over the whipped cream; then stir (not beat) rapidly with the bowl of the spoon resting on the bottom of the pan. Turn the pan with the left hand while stirring with the right. If it feels lumpy lift the pan from the ice and place it in warm water to melt the gelatine. Stir till the gelatine is well mixed with the cream, and when nearly stiff enough to drop turn it into the mould. Keep it on ice, and when ready to serve turn out, and garnish the top with jelly- (6) Put £ pint of cream in a small saucepan with l|oz. of gelatine and 7oz. of sugar, set over the fire, and beat with a wire egg-whisk till the gelatine is all dissolved; the quicker the better. Pour 1 teacupful of maraschino into 2 pints of cream, then strain in the contents of the saucepan, set the whole in a pan of pounded ice with salt in it, and whip Fig. 410. Charlotte Russe with Whipped Cream. the cream mixture till it begins to set, then pour it into the prepared mould. The mould should be made ready before- hand. A 2qt. jelly or cake-mould will do. Line it with lady’s fingers placed edge to edge, the edges wetted with white of egg. Ornament the top on turning out and garnish round the dish with whipped cream or meringue decorated with half-cherries (see Fig. 410). (7) Place all the ingredients in an ice-chamber, chest, or closet until wanted. Put lOoz. of granulated sugar and thirteen whites of eggs into a brass pan, and beat them together with a wire egg-whisk for about twenty minutes. If beaten rapidly in a cool place the mixture will then be like good cake frosting. Add 2 large teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and a little vanilla extract, and beat a minute longer; then lay aside the whisk and stir 6oz. of flour in with a spoon. As soon as the flour is quite mixed in the batter is ready, and should be baked forth- with. Lay a sheet of tissue-paper on the largest baking- sheet, spread the cake batter on it just deep enough to hide the paper, and bake about five minutes. Lay the cake downwards on the table, wet the paper, and take it off. Cut the cake into strips that will fit inside some tin muffin-rings and serve as linings, and small pieces to form the bottoms. Small tumblers or cups may answer as well when there are no suitable rings. Fill with whipped cream. (8) Put a little warmed jelly at the bottom of a plain round Charlotte-mould, pack it in ice, and when the jelly commences For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, U M1 v b n; siT Y LiBRARY LEEDS Charlottes—continued. to set decorate that part of the mould with any fruit that may be desired. Pour in more of the warm jelly to cover the fruit and let it set firm. Cut a few savoy biscuits into various shapes, dip them in sweet jelly, and decorate the sides of the mould with them. Put lib. of ripe strawberry puree or jam into a basin, and mix in 1 pint of sweet cream and loz. of dissolved gelatine. Pour this mixture into the cavity in the mould, cover the top over with a tin, pack icc on the top, and let it remain until the whole is set and firm. Turn the Charlotte out of the mould when ready, and serve. (9) Soak Joz. of gelatine for ten minutes in just enough water to cover it. Put 1 pint of rich cream into a bowl and whip it with a whisk into a stiff froth, add to this loz. of powdered white sugar and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla ; then melt the soaked gelatine over the fire, and very carefully pour it into the whipped cream; now beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, and stir this in, taking care not to beat down the froth. Then take lib. of savoy biscuits or lady’s fingers, split them apart if they are joined, cut the sides of each so that they may fit evenly together, and line a pint Charlotte-mould with them, placing them perpendicularly. Take a dozen candied cherries, dip them in water, and arrange in any pattern at the bottom of a tin. When the whipped cream and gelatine begin to get a little firm, pour them very carefully into the mould so as not to disarrange the wall of biscuits, and put it away in a cool place to harden. When it has become sufficiently firm turn out on to a dessert-dish, being careful not to spoil its shape or to disarrange the cherries on the top. (10) Bake some sponge cakes in very thin sheets, cut them into pieces about lOin. long and 4in. wide, roll these into small cups, and fasten the edges together with white of egg slightly beaten. Soak ^oz. of gelatine for ten minutes in just sufficient water to cover it. Put ^ pint of rich cream into a bowl and whip it with a whisk to a stiff froth, add to this loz. of powdered white sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; then melt the soaked gelatine over the fire, and very carefully stir it into the whipped cream. Now arrange the cake-cups on a platter, put a round of ornamental paper under each, and two-thirds fill them with the whipped cream ; when this gets firm, fill up the cups with white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and put on top of each a lozenge cut from the thin sponge cake. Cover them with a sheet of paper, and put them in the oven for a minute to set the white of egg. Garnish the top of each with candied cherries (see Fig. 411), and serve. (11) Line the bottom and sides of a dome-shaped mould with thin strips of sponge cake or lady’s fingers. Line the bottom first, arranging the pieces to form a star or rosette, then arrange them in an upright position all round the sides of the mould, packing them closely together. Sweeten 1 pint or more of cream, according to the size of the mould, with caster sugar, flavour it to taste with any kind of essence, and whip it to a stiff froth. Pour the cream carefully over the biscuits, pack the mould in thoroughly pounded ice, and leave it for two or three hours. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould carefully out on to a fancy dish, and decorate it according to taste with icing, or it may be left plain. (12) Decorate a Charlotte-mould, using for the sides lady’s fingers, with the ends cut square, or small slices of sponge 2 H Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. ^ \338 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Charlottes—continued. cake; and for the top, small round sponge cakes or maca- roons. Lay the cakes inside the mould in circles, slightly wetting the overlapping portions with white of egg to keep them in place. While the egg is drying, prepare enough whipped cream to fill the centre of the mould, and just before sending the Charlotte to table fill it with the cream, turn it out of the mould on a dish, and serve it at once. (13) Soak 1 Joz. of gelatine in a little water until soft, then put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and place it over the fire. When the gelatine has quite dissolved, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, pour in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir it until thickened. Remove this mixture from the fire, and leave it until nearly cold, then mix in 1 wineglassful of sherry, 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of lemon- flavoured sugar. Whip the mixture until very thick. Rinse a mould out with cold water, put a layer of savoy cakes at the bottom, and arrange some in an upright position round the sides, cutting off the enls to make them stand. The ends of the cakes may be thrown loosely into the mould. Pour in the cream, and keep the Charlotte in a cool place, or an ice-cliest, for an hour or two. When ready to serve, turn the Charlotte out of the mould on to an ornamental dish. Charlotte Russe au Cafe.— Take six small Charlotte-russe moulds. When thoroughly cleaned line them with lady’s-finger cakes, cut into halves; should they then be higher than the mould, trim them off at the edge. Add to 1 pint of vanilla cream 2 table-spoonfuls of coffee essence ; beat thoroughly together for two minutes, and fill the moulds with the mixture. Turn them over on to six dessert-plates, spread a little more cream on the top, and cover each with one macaroon. Dress the rest of the cream round the plates, and serve. Charlotte Russe a la Chateaubriand.— (1) Blanch .jib. of Jordan almonds, cut them up into shreds, and sprinkle a few of them over a Charlotte-mould packed in ice and masked with a little warmed sweet jelly ; cover them over with more of the jelly, and let it set. Put a small mould in the larger one, and fill up the cavity between them with more of the jelly mixed with the remainder of the almonds. The jelly should be nearly set before the almonds are mixed in, other- wise when it is poured into the mould the almonds would sink to the bottom, and the effect would be spoilt. Take out the small mould, fill the hollow with a noyeau-flavoured cream, turn the whole out when set, and serve. (2) Prepare lib. of Neapolitan cake paste (see Cakes), and take a part of it and roll it out into two strips Jin. in thick- ness, and as wide as the Charlotte-mould is high. Place them on a baking-sheet, and put them in a slow oven to bake; when of a light golden colour, take them out, trim the edges very smooth, and with a knife cut the strips cross- wise in pieces fin. in width. Serve the remainder of the paste in the same way, except that it is cut into rounds of about fin. in diameter with a plain biscuit-cutter. Then take a Charlotte-mould, put a piece of paper at the bottom, and cover this with some stiff royal icing made with the white of egg and sugar, and with it stick the pieces of paste together at the bottom of the mould, so that they overlap each other, and in reversed circles. Then put some of the icing into a paper funnel, and let some small drops fall between the circles, so that they will stick together. Squeeze out a little of the icing on to the edge of the narrow strips of paste, and stick them, overlapping one another, round the mould. Care must be taken to prevent the icing showing outside. Then in the angle where the strips of paste join the rounds (in the inside of the Charlotte) put a circle of icing so that they will all stick together, next putting the Charlotte in a hot place to dry. While it is drying, put the yolks of ten eggs into a stewpan, and add Jib. of caster sugar and lqt. of cream, boiled and flavoured with vanilla. Place it on the fire, and when the yolks begin to thicken take it off and pass it through a sieve. Take six preserved pears, Jib. of dried cherries, five preserved apricots, and the same of preserved greengages, cut them in dice, and put them in separate sugar-boilers, adding some syrup flavoured with a little maraschino.; let the syrup boil, and then take it from the fire, keeping the fruit in until cool, then draining it. Next put a freezing-pot in the ice, and pour in the" cream, Charlottes—continued. adding 1 wineglassful of maraschino and 1 gill of milk of almonds ; mix this well up with a spatula until it is partly frozen, and then add 1 pint of well-whipped cream, continuing to mix until the cream is frozen ; then add the prepared fruit. Mix and fill an ice-mould, small enough to go under the Charlotte, with the cream, close the mould and put butter in the opening, so that no water can get to the cream ; put this in the ice for two hours, covering it, and then turn the cream out of the mould on to a dish spread with a folded napkin ; glaze the Charlotte with apricot jam diluted with syrup, and place it over the cream. Charlotte Russe a la Princess Royal. -Put 3 breakfast- cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and add the thin rind of a lemon, a slight flavouring of cinnamon and noyeau, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and ljoz. of soaked gelatine. Place the saucepan on the side of the fire, or over a very slow one, and stir gently until all the gelatine is dissolved, without letting the liquor boil or get too hot; then turn it out on to a fine sieve, rub as much through as possible, colour one half with cochineal, and let the whole cool. Pack a Charlotte-mould in ice, pour in a little warmed sweet jelly, masking the bottom and sides with it, decorate the mould with any kind of small preserved fruit or fruits, cover them over with more of the jelly, and let this set. Place a small mould inside the larger Fig. 412. Charlotte Russe a la Princess Royal. one, fill the cavity between them with, first, a little of the red- coloured jelly, then the white or plain, then Dantzic or gold and silver jelly, and so on until the space is full, allowing one layer to set before another is put in, and when all is firm remove the small mould. Put a breakfast-cupful of well-whipped cream into a basin and whisk in Joz. of dissolved gelatine, a flavouring of noyeau, and sufficient sugar to sweeten ; pour this into the centre of the mould, pack ice on the top, turn it out when set, and put a small quantity of well-whipped cream on the top in the shape of a ball, with smaller ones put round the dish at the base, or ornament the top with a princess royal crown on a rosette or star of angelica (see Fig. 412). A little desiccated cocoa-nut should be mixed with the cream placed on and round it, to give a flavour to it. Charlotte Russe with Liqueurs. — This is prepared as for other Charlottes Russes, ivith the exception that a wineglassful each of curaqoa, noyeau, and maraschino are used in the cream. Charlotte Russe with Pine-apple Flavouring'.—Line a Charlotte-mould with paper, and arrange some finger biscuits (savoy) at the bottom and sides so as to form a rosette, putting the biscuits on their glazed side. Cut straight, on ends and sides, some other biscuits, having them as long as the height of the mould ; arrange these biscuits, standing up, close together round, and slightly leaning against the sides, laying them on also with their glazed side ; then put the mould in ice. Next prepare a mixture of loz. of gelatine dissolved in J pint of pine-apple syrup, a little lemon- or orange-zest, and the juice of an orange ; strain the liquid into a sugar-boiler, put it in ice, and stir it well so that it will thicken to the density ofTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 339 Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Charlottes—continued. cream ; then remove it from the ice, and add £ pint of well- whipped cream and 6oz. or 7oz. of fresh or preserved pine- apple cut into small dice. Pour this into the Charlotte, and let it remain for an hour. Turn it out, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it. Charlotte Russe with Pistachios. — This is prepared with coloured glazed biscuits, half white and half a light green, made with pistachios. Cut each biscuit in a slanting direction to the height and length of the Charlotte-mould. Put in the pieces of biscuit, letting them lean slightly against the sides of the mould, alternately varying the shades. The mould should have a layer of paper and then one of biscuits put at the bottom previous to the pieces being put in. Put the mould in the ice-tub an hour before required for table, and then about fifty minutes afterwards, or just before it is served, fill it up with some bavaroise preparation, made with a puree of pistachios, diluted with plain syrup perfumed with orange- flowers, and glued with gelatine or white of egg, and thickened a little on the ice by stirring it; then add some well-whipped cream to it, say 3 tumblerfuls. The cream should be added slowly and a little at a time, and be well mixed in each time. When the mixture is firm enough, turn the Charlotte out on to a bottom of gum paste, the top being decorated with small beads of icing sugar put on with a cornet (see Piping). Garnish the base with either chopped jelly or jelly croutons, spread a layer of marmalade over the top of the Charlotte, and place round the rim small glazed bouehees of biscuit, with chopped jelly or cream put in the centre of the circle. French Charlotte.—(1) Scoop the centre out of an almond sponge cake, leaving' the bottom and sides about tin. thick. Put Mb. of macaroons in a basin with some sherry, and soak them well. Whip to a stiff froth 1 pint of cream. Put the soaked maca- roons at the bottom of the sponge-cake mould, then spread a thick layer of preserve over them and fill up with the cream, piling it high in the centre. Ornament the edge and all round the cake with icing by squeezing it through a cornet. Stand the Charlotte in a glass dish, and serve it when ready. (2) Line a dome-shaped mould with slices of genoa cake, whisk with an egg-beater a sufficient quantity of curds to fill the mould, sweeten them to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with any kind of essence. Pour the whipped curds into the mould and pack it in pounded ice and salt until firm. When ready to serve turn the Charlotte out on to a fancy dish, ornament it tastefully with sweetmeats, or leave it plain. Italian Charlotte.—Peel about 21b. of pears, cut them into quarters, remove their cores, put them into a lined saucepan with \ pint of white wine, the tliinly-pared rind of half a lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Cook them over a slow fire. Line the bottom and sides of a dome-shaped mould with lady’s fingers, arranging them in the form of a star or rosette at the bottom, and packing them closely together at the sides. When the pears are tender, remove the piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel, add J pint of whipped cream, with Joz. of dissolved gelatine, and turn them gently into the lined mould. Pack the mould in pounded ice and salt for two or three hours. When ready to serve, turn the Charlotte out of the mould on to a dish; beat 2oz. of caster sugar with the whites of two eggs to a firm, stiff froth, then spread it over the Charlotte; garnish with croutons of apple jelly. Mosaic Charlotte.—Put a layer of some white and black grapes, strawberries, small pieces of stewed apples, pears, or any fruit obtainable that is in season, in a plain mould; mix the varieties as much as possible to give a mosaic appearance, j Put the mould upon the ice and pour in sufficient clear jelly to cover them. When the jelly has set, line the mould with savoy biscuits, cutting them, and putting them at the bottom ! to form a rosette, also placing them upright round the sides, j cutting off a piece from the ends of each, and trimming the edges so that they will stand close together at the side of the mould. Pill the centre with a vanilla cream, with a little ] angelica, stewed apples cut in dice, and a wineglassful of brandy added. Let it remain on the ice until set, then turn it out, set a pile of candied cherries on the top (see Fig. 413), and serve. Neapolitan Charlotte.—Line a well-buttered Charlotte-mould with some tartlet paste, cover this with paper, fill the centre Charlottes—continu ed. with flour, or dried grains, to preserve the shape, put in into the oven, and bake. When done, turn the flour or grain out of the mould, and let the Charlotte-case cool; then turn it out, give the mould a good wiping, place the Charlotte back in it, and put it on the ice. Prepare a mixture of chestnut- bread with gelatine, stir, thicken it on the ice, and then add 5oz. of sultana raisins, the same quantity of preserved peel of citron, orange, and lemon sliced small, and 4 table- spoonfuls of marachino; put this into the Charlotte, and let it remain for an hour. When ready, just dip the mould into , hot water, turn the Charlotte out, place a layer of apricot marmalade on the outside, smooth it with a spatula or knife- blade, and decorate the top with a rosette made of preserved fruits and candied angelica. Polisli Charlotte.—(1) Cut a sponge cake transversely, dip each piece in any kind of cream, then place them back, giving’ the cake its original shape as nearly as possible. Put the cake on to a fancy dish, cover it with cream, strew caster sugar on the top, and decorate it according to fancy with preserves or sweetmeats. Garnish round the base of the cake with sweetmeats and croutons of red-currant jelly. Place the dish over ice, and leave it there for an hour or two. (2) Take a timbale-mould and bake a vanilla-flavoured sponge cake in it. When it is cold, cut it transversely into slices about Jin. in thickness, and upon each slice put some frangipane cream flavoured with vanilla. Put the slices on a dish in their original positions, and mask the outside with a slight layer of apricot marmalade and then a layer of meringue ; smooth it, and decorate with a cornet, arranging it so that when cooked it can be decorated with preserved fruits and paste. Sprinkle some finely-powdered sugar over the meringue, and put it in a moderately hot oven to bake so as to give the meringue a nice yellow colour. Take the Charlotte out of the oven when done, wipe the dish well, decorate the meringue with apple and gooseberry jelly, and serve. A little vanilla-flavoured cream should be served separately in a boat. Prussian Charlotte.—Take a plain mould and put a little jelly (flavoured with brandy and coloured with a little essence of cochineal) to about Jin. in depth. Put the mould on the ice, and line the sides with savoy biscuits, filling up the centre with maraschino cream. Leave the mould on the ice until the preparation sets, then dip the bottom of it for a second in warm water, and turn it out. Ornament with candied fruit. Fig. 413. Mosaic Charlotte. Westphalian Charlotte.—Choose about fifteen good apples, remove the peel and cores, and mince them very finely; then put them into a stewpan with about Jib. of melted butter, toss them on a brisk fire until their moisture is reduced, dust over them a few handfuls of sugar, and add a little cinnamon and lemon-zest. Let them cook for a few minutes longer, and then remove from the fire. Next take lib. or ljlb. of brown breadcrumbs, dry them well, and rub them through a sieve. Put -Jib. of butter into a pan, make it hot, throw in the breadcrumbs, and fry them for a few minutes so that they will get dry; then put them into a basin, and add 2 h 2340 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Charlottes—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of cinnamon sugar and a little chopped orange- and lemon-zest (grated rind), pour in £ wineglassful of Madeira or Malaga wine, and let the crumbs absorb it, woi-king it with a spoon to the required consistence. Then well butter a Charlotte-mould, and lay the preparation at the bottom and round the sides to about -jin. in thickness, pressing the breadcrumbs hard; slightly warm the apples, put them into the hollow in the mould, and coyer the top with a piece of bread well buttered and cut into a round shape ; place the mould on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately hot oven for forty minutes. Take it out of the oven, pass a knife between it and the Charlotte, turn it out, and dust over some caster sugar. CHARTREUSE.—Standing out pre-eminent among liqueurs are the famous manufactures of the monks of the French Monastery of Grande Chartreuse, situated in Daupliine, near Grenoble, amongst the rugged mountains of the Alps; and very justly proud these followers of the Benedictine St. Bruno are of their wares. A writer on the subject tells us that these Carthusian recluses devote the whole of their time to the religious exercises entailed in cultivating herbs and making these holy liqueurs from them; the industry providing some two or three hundred of them with perpetual lucrative em- ployment. The annual monetary return to the establish- ment from the sale of Chartreuse is estimated at upwards of 2,000,000 francs, and it is not therefore surprising to learn that other monks in monasteries have taken up the idea. Originally Chartreuse was little better than an elixir made from the juice of the herbs found on the Alps, which was stored in small bottles, for the purpose of com- forting the pilgrims who passed through Dauphine; but we are told, a learned chemist of Lyons stopping in the abbey in the year 1834 noticed some aromatic herbs thrown aside from which the juices had been expressed. Calling atten- tion to them, he was informed that they were useless; but as he observed that pigs devoured them eagerly, he further examined them, and then exclaimed that instead of being useless they were a real treasure. Taking them into the laboratory, he had the furnaces lit, got the alembics into working order, and produced the first liqueur. From this it will be understood that the secret of the manufacture is the fragrance of the Alpine herbs, and so great is this that all other attempts to imitate this monasterial production are inferior, even if they are not altogether failures. Chartreuse is made of three colours— green (vert), yellow (jaune), and white (blanc), but the basis of all three is declared to be as follows : Angelica, 10 grammes; hyssop, 2 grammes; balm, 2 grammes; peppermint, 20 grammes ; nutmeg and cloves, 4 grammes; in 2qts. of rectified spirits of wine. To this is added a fair pro- portion of strong syrup and either spinach green or saffron, for green or yellow, or no colouring at all for the white. The severity of the discipline enforced by St. Bruno upon these retiring liqueur-makers has led the Continental cooks in a fit of satire to make a few suggestive dishes, which they dedicated to these monks and style Chartreuses. The secret consists in disposing of highly tasty morsels amongst severely plain food such as cabbage, between the leaves of which would be concealed pats of savoury forcemeats of game and other good things. Fruits are applied in the same manner. The following receipt is given as a very artistic example, but others of a much more monastic character will be found under other headings, such as Fish, Fowl, Partridges, Pigeons, Prairie-hens, Strawberries, and Sweetbreads. Chartreuse of Vegetables and Game.—Scrape and wash six large carrots, peel and wash the same number of white turnips, and boil them for twenty minutes in salted water. Pour off the water, add 3 pints of stock and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and simmer gently for one hour; then take up, drain, and set away to cool. Cut two large cabbages in four parts, wash them, and boil twenty minutes in^ salted water. Drain in the colander, and return to the saucepan, Chartreuse—continued. with 1 pint of stock, two cloves, a bouquet of herbs, and two onions tied in a piece of muslin, 1 dessert-spoonful of butter, lib. of bits of pork, and three grouse. Cover the saucepan, and place it where the contents will simmer for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, put the grouse and pork on a dish to cool; turn the cabbage into a colander, chop it very fine, season with salt and pepper, and put away to cool. Butter a plain mould holding about 4qts., and line it with buttered note-paper cut to fit the sides and bottom. Cut the cold turnips and carrots in thick slices, then in pieces all the same size and shape, and line the sides and bottom of the mould with these, being particular to have the pieces come together, and having the yellow and white arranged in either squares or rows. With the chopped cabbage put | pint of brown sauce and 2 table-spoonfuls of glaze, and stir over the fire for six minutes ; then spread a thick layer of this on the vegetables, being careful not to displace them. Cut each grouse into large pieces, season with salt and pepper, pack closely in the mould, moisten with another J pint of brown sauce, and cover with the remainder of the cabbage. Two hours before serving time place this in a steamer and warm it up. While the Chartreuse is steaming, make the sauce as follows ; Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan, and when hot add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring until a dark brown; then add the stock in which the cabbage was cooked, and enough of that in which the turnips and carrots were cooked to make lqt., and stir until it boils ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of glaze, and set it back where it will simmer for one hour. Skim off the fat, and strain.. When the Chartreuse is done, take it up and turn it gently Fig. 414. Chartreuse of Vegetables and Game. upon the dish, lift the mould very carefully, take off the paper, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of the sauce over and the remainder round it (see Fig. 414). This Chartreuse can be made with any kind of poultry, game, or meat. CHATEAUBRIAND. —A certain mode of dressing a fillet-steak lias been dedicated to tlie celebrated Francois Bene, Count Chateaubriand, by French cooks upon the following slender analogy. In 1802 Chateau- briand wrote a book entitled “La Genie du Christi- anisme,” which gave a very lucid descriptive account of the crucifixion, with the thieves on each side. The ingenious chef was in the habit of cooking thick fillet- steaks by laying them between two steaks of an inferior character, so that the fillet might not burn in broiling. The notion seems to have struck one or other of these savoury gentlemen that there was some resemblance between the two acts, and henceforth the fillet was au Chateaubriand. Later cooks have modernised the act, but lost the idea, consequently a fillet-steak cut open and stuffed is au Chateaubriand. CHAUDEAU.—The name of an old-fashioned French caudle cup, now generally used as a sort of sauce. Cliaucleau Sauce.—(1) Rub loaf sugar on the yellow rind of a lemon, put it in a saucepan with 4oz. more sugar, the juice of the lemon, i pint each of water and wine, and the beaten yolks of eight eggs. Whisk the sauce over the fire until thick and on the point of boiling, then move it offTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 341 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Chaudeau—cont inued. immediately and serve. The sauce must not boil, or the eggs will curdle and spoil it. (2) Rub 4oz. of loaf sugar on the yellow rind of a lemon, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of white wine, and place it over the fire until boiling. Beat the yolks of six eggs with the whites of three; move the sauce to the side of the fire, then mix in the beaten eggs, and continue beating them until thick and foamy. Serve without delay. CHAUDFROIDS.—Literally “hot-colds,” applied to certain methods of preparing birds. Further described under Fowls, Larks, Partridges, Pheasants, Plovers, Quails, Turkeys, Woodcocks, &c. CHAUSSONS.—French pasties answering in many particulars to English puffs. They are described as a sort of pastry made of a round of paste folded across the middle, and filled with apple or other marmalade compote or confection. Chaussons are served cold. See Cakes. CHEATS.—Little batter cakes fried and served with honey, jam, or sweet sauce. These are sometimes also known as Wonders. CHEENESUCKUR.—Hind, for a very superior kind of rice. CHEESE (Fr. Fromage ; Ger. Kase ; Ital. Cacio; Sp. Queso).—The English name for this important food product is doubtless derived from the Anglo-Saxon “Cese” or “ Cyse,” the c being pronounced as if it were cli. Cheese is literally the coagulated, pressed, and partially- dried solids of milk (casein and butter-fat), containing also a large percentage of water, some salt, and a portion of the sugar and mineral matter of the milk. It is ex- tensively prepared for food in all countries, chiefly from the milk of cows, but the milk of goats, sheep, asses, and other animals is occasionally applied to the same purpose. In China a Cheese is made from the nitro- genous matter of peas, but it differs in many respects from the Cheese made from milk, although its flavour and chemical composition are similar. Fig. 416. Curd-knife (Horizontal). The process of Cheese-making is very interesting, and depends upon the power that some animal membranes, such as the mucous membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf, have for coagulating milk, with the assistance of heat. The curd produced is carefully drained, collected, and pressed into various shapes, according to the style of Cheese to be manufactured. One process is as follows : The dairy farmer puts the greater portion of the milk into a large tub, to which he adds the remainder, suffi- ciently heated to raise the temperature to that of from 80deg. to 90deg. Fahr., according to the variety and custom. The whole is then whisked together, the rennet or rennet-liquor added, and the tub covered over. It is Cheese—continued. now allowed to stand until completely coagulated, when the curd is gently cut with two many-bladed knives (see Figs. 415 and 416), or with one single blade, after which it is allowed to subside, or it may be passed through a curd-mill (see Fig. 417). The curd, cut into small cubes, is gently stirred to prevent bruising and the consequent loss of the butter, the mass being gently heated Hie while, so that the cubes become tougher and part with much of the whey they contain. There are Fig. 418. Cheese-vat. two methods of heating. In Somerset a portion of the whey is removed from the tub, and heated sufficiently to raise the whole to about lOOdeg. Where the jacketed Cheese-vat (see Fig. 418) is used hot water or steam is turned into the jacket and the mass raised to the Fig. 419. Plain Ciieese-vat (Dairy Supply Company). exact temperature. Stirring continues until the curd is crisp and shotty; the whey is then drawn off or baled out, and the cm'd “ packs ” at the bottom of the tub. It is then cut into cubes about 4in. square, these being piled on each other. In a few minutes the Fig. 420. Cheese-vat, to Open with Key (Dairy Supply Company), mass is again cut up and left for acidity to develop sufficiently. The curd is then ground fine through a mill, and salted at the rate of 2 to 21 per cent. The Cheese- I mould or vat (see Figs. 419 and 420) is now lined withTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 342 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Cheese—continued. a cloth, filled with curd, covered, and put in the press (see Fig. 421) for twelve hours. Next day the cloth is changed, and the Cheese returns to the press for twenty- four hours. It is sometimes further pressed. The Cheese Fig. 421. Cheese-press (Dairy Supply Company). is next greased, capped with cloth, bandaged, and placed in a special ripening-room, where it remains for some three months, being frequently turned. The above is an outline of the Cheddar process. The soft Cheese-press is of various forms, a round, fiat press being sometimes used for cream and other soft, fresh curd Cheeses (see Fig. 422). Fig. 422. Press for Cream Cheeses. In Great Britain the leading Cheeses are Cheddar, Cheshire, Stilton, Gloucester, Derby, Leicester, Wiltshire Loaf, Caerphilly, Wensleydale, Cotherstone, Liberton, and Dunlop. The soft Cheeses are: York Curd, Godmanchester, New Forest, Col wick, and Graveley. In America and Canada Cheddar is the Cheese of the country. In France there are some fifty varieties, the chief of which are Gruyere, Cantal, Gex, Gerome, Port du Salut, Roque- Cheese—co ntinued. fort (made from sheep’s milk), Olivet, Void, Rollot. Ljivarot, Brie, Camembert, Neufchatel, Mont d’Or, Mignot, Pont- l’Eveque, Coulommiers. In Holland Gouda and Edam. In Italy Gorgonzola, Cacio, Cavallo, Pecorino, and Par- mesan. In Switzerland Gruyere, Spalen, Gessenay, Back- stein, Yacherin, and Bellelay. In Germany Hartz, Lim- burg, Munster, and Backstein. See Coloured Plate. Some of the stronger sorts of Cheese are rasped fine and used as a condiment—Parmesan to wit. The Cheese of Limburg, or “ Limburger,” as it is called, is partly putrefied before it is considered ready to be eaten. Roquefort Cheese is made of sheep’s milk and ripened with much care in caverns. The better qualities of the Laplander’s Reindeer Cheese are highly lauded by travellers in Lapland, and Cheese made from buffalo- milk is said to be good. Stilton Cheese, made only of milk, contains about 32 parts water, 37 fat, and 241 casein; Cheddar contains 31 to 34 parts water, 31 to 34 fat, and 24 to 26 casein; Gorgonzola contains about 40 parts water, 25 fat, and 25 casein. The soft Cheeses contain more water and less solids. All Cheeses contain a small proportion—sometimes as much as 6 per cent.—of mineral matter, and sugar, which may reach 5 per cent. Cream Cheeses contain from 55 to 63 per cent, of fat (butter), the rest being chiefly water. There is a Cheese made and known in Switzerland as Schabzeiger, and in Norway as Myseost, which is chiefly composed of the sugar of milk. As an article of food Cheese ranks very high, being, according to good authority, eminently nutritious, whole- some, and digestible. In Cooley’s “ Cyclopaedia ” we read: “ Like all other food, Cheese digests more readily when well masticated, and the neglect of this precaution is one reason why it frequently disagrees with delicate stomachs. It is rendered more agreeable to many palates by toasting or otherwise cooking it, but becomes less digestible by that operation. The basis of Cheese is casein or coagulated curd, a protein substance containing 15‘6 per cent, of nitrogen; it therefore cannot fail to prove nutritious provided it is properly digested.” Cheese-curd carefully freed from water and milk by expression and the addition of salt, is a mixture of casein and butter. It contains most of the phosphates of lime and soda of the milk. When taken as a condiment, especially when rich and old, it powerfully promotes the secretion of the saliva and gastric juice, and thereby aids the stomach in performing its proper functions. Rotten Cheese is very unwholesome. In some parts of the United States, Cheese is manu- factured on a very large scale in factories which are often owned by a large number of farmers in common; the result being, on the whole, a decided improvement in the quality of the product, with a large diminution of the cost of manufacture. Large numbers of Cheeses prepared in these factories are exported to Great Britain and the West Indies. “Very slight differences,” says Cooley,‘‘in the materials, in the preparation, or in storing of the Cheese, materially influence the quality and flavour. The richness of the milk —the addition to or subtraction of cream from the milk— the separation of the curd from the whey with or without compression—the salting of the curd—the collection of the curd, either whole or broken, before pressing—the addition of colouring matter, as annatto or saffron, or of flavouring—the place and method of storing—and the length of time allowed for maturation, all tend to alter the taste and odour of the Cheese in one way or another, so as to be readily perceptible to the palate of a con- noisseur.” In fact, few alimentary products are so easily affected by slight circumstances as Cheese; hence its numerous varieties. These are commonly dis- tinguished by names indicative of the place in which they have been manufactured, or of the quality of the materials from which they have been prepared.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 343 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. The inodes of preparing various kinds of Cheese are not always permitted by manufacturers to be at the disposal of the public; but in cases where it has been possible to gain reliable information, instructions are hereunder given, arranged alphabetically, according to popular name, and without regard to nationality, taste, shape, or other classification. It will lie found that they consist in greater or less degree of (1) those which are new and unsalted, having no other properties than those of cream and casein ; (2) similar Cheeses salted or soured; (3) firm Cheeses, not too hardly pressed; and (4) cured, or ripened, hard Cheeses. The two latter com- prising what are called fermented Cheeses, that is to say, Cheeses which have undergone some kind of decom- position, generally of a putrefactive kind, in which ammoniacal salts have been developed, fatty acid, and a peculiar acrid oil, accompanied by strong flavours. Artificial Cheese. —(1) Boil together 2qts. of milk and lqt. of cream, with a moderate quantity of powdered nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon. Beat four eggs, pi$4 them in the milk with 4 table-spoonfuls of the best white vinegar, and con- tinue boiling until it comes to a curd; then turn the mixture into a Cheese-cloth, tie it up, and let it hang for six or eight hours to drain. Take the Cheese out of the cloth, flavour it with a few drops of essence of rose-water, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; then turn it into a colander, and leave it for an hour or two. Cover the bottom of a dish with cream, turn the Cheese on to it, and serve. (2) Pour Igall. of cream and lgall. of milk into a saucepan, and boil them; then add seven or eight well-beaten eggs and 7 table-spoonfuls of wine vinegar, and simmer gently on the side of the fire until a tender curd appears. Turn the whole into a Cheese-cloth, and hang it to drain for several hours. Untie the cloth, mix in a little salt, turn the curd on to another cloth spread over a colander or Cheese-hoop, place a heavy weight on the top, and let it remain for an hour or so. Put it on to a dish when ready, and serve. Bath Cheese. —(1) Take 2qts. of new milk and add, while at 90deg. Eahr., just as it comes from the cow, sufficient rennet to bring it to a curd in four hours. When the curd is firm and does not adhere to the finger laid upon it, take it out of the setting vessel in slices with a metal saucer and place it in layers in the mould, 4in. by 4in. and 2in. high, until full—the mould should stand upon a straw mat. When the liquid (whey) has drained sufficiently, place a clean mat and a board over the mould and turn it rapidly. This plan repeated will by degrees make it so solid that the mould can be removed without the Cheese falling about. Then sprinkle fine salt over it, spread with a feather, and place it on a dry shelf in a fairly warm room (63deg. Fahr.) to ripen, turning it daily ; when a fine white mould has covered it, it is fit to eat. If ^ pint of cream is added to 3 pints of milk the Cheese will be improved. (2) To lgall. of new milk add 2qts. of cold spring water and sufficient rennet to turn it as above; then take the curds gently out with a skimming-dish and fill a vat lined with a Cheese-cloth with it. Put a weight upon it, and leave for a day or two to drain. Turn it out of the vat on to a plate, wrap in dry cloths, and leave to set and drain. Cover it with another plate, and turn occasionally. It will be ready for use in about a fortnight. Bexhill Cheese.—A small round flat cream Cheese of excellent quality, known locally. Bondon Cheese.—See Neufchatel Cheese. Brickbat Cheese.—So called from its shape, which resembles a brick. It is made in Wiltshire of new milk and cream. See New-milk Cheese. Brie Cheese.—A large, round, Hat, soft Cheese, from fin. to lin. thick and lOin. to 12in. in diameter, made in the district of Brie, about 25 miles from Paris. It is the most popular Parisian Cheese, many millions being sold in the city every year. Brie is made from new milk, although a Cheese termed “ fa^on Brie ” is made from partially-skimmed milk. When firm enough to remove from the mould, the Cheese is placed in a separate apartment until, after turning daily, it is covered with a white mould; it then goes into another Cheese—continued. apartment to take the blue and red mould—the latter, however, which improves the flavour, is not obtainable in all dairies. One gallon of rich milk makes a large Cheese. Brie is fit to eat in about six weeks. Camembert Cheese.—This, next to Brio, is the most popular French Cheese. It is small, round, weighs about lloz., and is covered with blue mould on the top of a white mould. Camembert is chiefly made in Calvados, in Normandy, which is the centre of a large and important industry. The milk is placed warm into wooden tubs provided with lids, brought to a curd in two-hours-and-a-half, removed by large ladles into the metal moulds about 5in. high by 4in. in diameter, turned in six to eight hours, turned again next day, and finally removed, the curd being upon straw or rush-mats the while. When firm enough the Cheeses are salted in the hand, turned daily on shelves until covered with white mould, removed to the sechoir or h&loir to take the blue, where they are ripened, and ready for use in five to six weeks. Temperature and humidity, as affecting the growth of the fungi, are all-important in the manufacture of this Cheese. Cantal Cheese. —This Cheese is made in Auvergne; it is piquant in flavour, yellow in colour, and weighs from 401b. to 1201b. The milk is set for curd at about 72deg. Fahr., the curd broken up in an hour, the whey removed, and the curd drained and kneaded. After undergoing' various processes of working, pressing, and fermentation, the moulds are filled, the curd having been salted, and then pressed. The new Cheeses are removed to a cave, frequently washed with salt water, and ripened, this operation taking . about two months. The manufacture of Cantal reaches about ten million pounds per annum. Cheddar Cheese is one of the kings of Cheese; it is pale- coloured, mellow, salvy, and, when good, resembling a hazel- nut in flavour. The Cheddar principle pervades the whole Cheese-making districts of America, Canada, and New Zealand, but no Cheese imported by us can equal the Cheddars of Somerset and the West of Scotland. Cheddar Cheeses are made from 1001b. to 1501b. in weight, but the Wilts Loaf and the West Gloucester Cheeses, both much smaller, are made upon a principle which closely resembles the Cheddar. The curd is brought in an hour at from 80deg. to 85deg. Fahr., broken down, gently heated by the addition of hot whey, until the curd has become firm and shotty. The whey is then removed, the curd pressed, cut up, piled, aired to induce the formation of acid, again cut, ground, salted, and vatted. It is then pressed, and finally removed to the curing-room, where it remains at a temperature of 65deg. to 70deg. Fahr., and regularly turned until ripe. Cheshire Cheese.—(1) This Cheese is frequently confounded with Cheddar, and the resemblance is great in many respects. Both are manufactured from new milk, the evening’s milk being cooled, and the next morning’s yield added to it, when both are heated to from 80deg. to 84deg. Fahr. Very little rennet is used. The further process throughout is similar to that in the Cheddar district, and the Cheeses are large, round, and thick, weighing from 1001b. to 1201b. The Cheese should be solid, mellow, and rich, but the flavour is stronger than Cheddar; this, however, renders it more appetising to some tastes than its milder rival. From its name it would be understood to be made in the county of Cheshire, but the soil of that county, salt springs, and other conditions which are thought to give the characteristic to the Cheese extend considerably beyond the borders. (2) Imitation.—A very good Cheese closely resembling Cheshire Cheese may be made by collecting the curds with- out breaking them, and then chopping them one by one with as much regularity as possible, using a flat wooden knife for the purpose. Put the broken curds lightly into a large Cheshire Cheese-vat lined with a Cheese-cloth, and fill it to several inches, so that after much pressing it will be at least 7in. or 8in. thick ; it will be ready for cutting after about a year’s careful storing. It is usual to cut a hole in the tops of these Cheeses when they are ripe, and after pouring in a pint of port wine or stout, replace the plug of Cheese and leave them to mellow. Cottage Cheese.—Pour some boiliDg water into a pan of clotted sour milk. It will curd at once. Stir it, turn it into a colander, pour a little cold water over, salt it, and break it344 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see utider their special heads. Cheese—continued. up. A richer way is to put equal parts of butter-milk and thick milk in a kettle over the fire, heat it to almost boiling, pour into a linen bag, and let it drain till next day. Then take it out, salt it, put in a little cream or butter, as it may be thick or not, and make up into balls the size of an orange. Cottenliam Cheese.—This Cheese might be mistaken for Stilton if it were not flatter and broader in shape. In flavour it is if anything somewhat richer than the generality of Stiltons, and when cut shows a richer and creamier surface marked with blue veins, delicate, dark, or turning to brown, according to the age of the Cheese. For further information regarding this Cheese, reference may be made to Stilton. Cream Cheese.—Cheeses under this name are made from new milk, milk and cream, mixed in various proportions, and even strippings,” the last of the milk drawn from the cow at each milking, and less creamy than the bulk; but the genuine cream Cheese, made from pure cream, cannot be compared to these weaker substitutes. Several receipts will be found for these and a variety of other cream Cheeses, some resembling each other very nearly in their mode of preparation, and differing very little in taste or quality, but having distinguishing titles. (1) Take lqt. of cream, warm it in hot water till it is about the heat of milk from the cow, add rennet (sufficient to coagulate in twelve hours), then break it slightly with a spoon, and place it on a frame over which a piece of fine canvas cloth has previously been fastened, subsequently remove it into a damp cloth, place it in a bottomless box or frame, cover with a well-fitting board and a weight, and let it stand a few hours; then put a finer cloth in the frame, and shift the Cheese into it. A little powdered salt may be sprinkled over the curd when it comes out of the cloth ; it may then be placed in the moulds to take its final shape, square, round, heart, or fleur-de-lis. It will be fit for use in a day or two. (2) Take lqt. of cream that has become sour and thick, mix in 1 table-spoonful of salt, and pour it into a piece of thin muslin (butter wrapping) placed on a sieve. Leave it in a cool place for three days to drain and ripen, pouring away every day the whey from the dish it stands on. Lift the Cheese out by taking hold of the corners of the cloth, turn it on to a plate, and it will be fit to eat the next day. (3) A fine cream Cheese may be made by putting away lqt. of good cream in a cream-bowl (see Fig. 423) until it is very thick. Lay a pieoe of well-washed wet calico in a small hair sieve, standing on a dish. Pour the cream into this when it is ready, and let it drain for three days, emptying the whey out of the dish every morning. Two Fig. 423. Cream-bowl (Dairy Supply Company). table-spoonfuls of salt may be dissolved in the cream before setting it for souring, and the curd pressed lightly into a wooden mould with perforated bottom. Kept in a cool pantry for a week or ten days makes a well-drained cream Cheese more mellow and flavoursome. See Kush Cream Cheese. Daventry Cheese.—A round, flat Cheese, very rich, white, and veined, like a ripe Stilton, but of a darker green. Derbyshire Cheese.—These are large, white, flat, round, and somewhat inferior Cheeses of a modified Cheshire type, commonly made in Derbyshire factoi’ies ; they are alike deficient in the quality of the Cheshire and the flavour of the Cheddar. Dorset Cheese.—This is known as Blue Vinney or Blue- veined Dorset, or Double Dorset, and is usually made with skimmed milk. The system is now dying out, the market for this class of Cheese being occupied by an article of a better class, but a few farmers still make batches and Cheese—continued. occasionally use new milk. Some of those specially made by Dorsetshire farmers for home consumption are much richer than the Cheeses prepared for market. Dunlop Cheese.—This is one of the best toasting Cheeses made. It was the national Cheese of Scotland, being manu- factured principally in Ayr, Lanark, and Renfrew, but farmers have largely given up its manufacture. White, rich in flavour, and buttery. Dutch Cheeses are of two kinds, the Edam, or round, and the Gouda, or flat, the latter, when good, resembling Cheddar in flavour. Dutch Cheese is, however, made largely from milk which is poor in fat. It is not made in a very cleanly manner; it is artificially coloured, and the rind reddened with ochre. Dutch Cream Cheese.—Put the yolks of five eggs into a basin with three whole eggs, and beat them well; then mix with them 1 pint of butter-milk. Procure 3qts. of milk just from the cow, pour it into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until boiling, then stir in the above mixture. Boil up once, then take it off the fire, cover it, and let it stand until the curd has formed. Turn the curd into a fine hair sieve, put a weight on the top, and leave it thus for twenty-four hours. Serve the Cheese with cream and sugar. Gloucester Cheese (Double and Single).—All buttery Cheeses are good toasters, but very few equal the Gloucester, especially that known as Double Gloucester; the difference between “ double ” and “ single ” being that the former is made from pure milk, whilst the latter is made from milk that has been deprived of part of its cream. In flavour both kinds are exceedingly mild, and something of a salvy consistence, circular, flat, and weighing from 221b. upwards. Gorgonzola Cheese.—For some reason or other this splendid manufacture of Cheese was a long time finding its way from the north of Italy to these shores, although, as a matter of fact, it is considered by many epicures to be superior to our Stilton. In some particulars it resembles Stilton, but not in shape, being flat and broad. When cut it presents, if ripe, a yellow colour, and rich green veinings. Unfortunately, the great demand for it that exists has led to the introduction of weak, gummy, and altogether inferior makes. Gorgonzola should be firm and creamy, with the two flat surfaces as nearly level as possible; those of inferior quality sink in the centre, and are weak in substance. Green Cheese.—See Sage Cheese. Gruyere Cheese.—It can hardly be said that this Cheese is a favourite in this country, where so many good Cheeses are made; but it has a certain reputation which is well supported by the manufacture. It is a very large, flat, round, thick Cheese, and cuts firm, with large holes, or “ vesicles ” as they are called, containing at times a little moisture. The odour of Gruyere is very peculiar, but the nutty flavour of a good sample is only equalled by that of the Cheddar. The best qualities are imported from Fribourg, but good, sound Gruyere is also manufactured in Ain, the Jura, Vosges, and other mountainous districts in France and Switzerland. The process employed in making Gruyire is unique, but there are two qualities, the better being called Emmenthaler, the difference being in the quality and character of the milk. Italian Cream Cheese.—Squeeze and strain the juice of three lemons, add to this 7 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, and then add and beat in by degrees lqt. of cream. Whip the whole with an egg whisk till quite thick. This will take about lialf-an- hour. When quite thick, lay a piece of muslin over a hair sieve, and pour the cream in through the muslin. Let it stand twelve hours, and when turned out garnish with flowers. Leicester Cheese.— Flat, circular, very shallow, and coloured deep red; strong in flavour. Limburger Cheese.—This Cheese is chiefly famous for its pungently offensive odour. It is made from skimmed milk, and allowed to partially decompose before pressing. It is very little known in this country, and might be less so with advantage to consumers. Lincoln Cheese.—Manufactured from a mixture of new milk and cream, and sold as a cream Cheese, in pieces about 2in. thick. It will not keep more than two or three weeks.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 345 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. Loaf Cheese.—This name refers chiefly to the shape and size of the Cheese, which is small and cylindrical, with slightly bulging sides. Any kind of Cheese may be made into this shape; but the greater number come from Cheddar, Gloucester, and Wilts. Marolles Cheese. -A French cream Cheese of excellent quality made at Marolles. Milk Cheese.—(l) Take lqt. of thick sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 table- spoonful of cream. Place the milk in a pan on the back of the stove, and scald it until the curd has separated from the whey. Spread a strainer-cloth over a bowl, pour in the milk, lift the edges of the cloth, draw them together, and drain or wring quite dry. There will be but half or two-thirds of a cup of curd. Put it in a small bowl with the butter, salt, and cream, and mix to a smooth paste with a spoon. Take 1 teaspoonful and roll in the hand into a smooth ball. It should be quite moist, or the balls will crack. If too soft to handle, put it in a cool place for an hour, and then it will shape easily; or it may be served without shaping, but just broken up lightly with a fork. If scalded too long, the curd becomes very hard and brittle. It is better when freshly made, and is delicious with warm gingerbread, and is an excellent lunch or tea dish. Season this Cheese with 1 table-spoonful of finely-powdered sage, if that flavour is liked. (2) Take as much clotted sour milk as required, set in a pan on the stove over a low fire, and let it heat slowly without burning. When it shows signs of beginning to boil it should be taken off, as boiling makes the curd tough. Pour it into a muslin bag and hang it on a nail to drip till next day. Then chop up the ball of curd and mix with salt, pepper, and cream to taste; or cream, or sweet milk and sugar. Press into shapes, and- serve. (3) Dissolve a teacupful of salt in 2galls. of warm new milk, and stir into this about i teacupful of weak rennet. If the milk has become cold it should be warmed to 95deg. Fahr.—not higher, or the curd will be hard. Put this aside for a couple of hours, when the curd should be quite set. Cut the curd across in every direction with either of the curd-knives shown in Figs. 415 and 416, and bale out a good portion of the whey with a cup or spoon, then drain the curd through a cloth spread over a colander, and pack it in a Fig. 424. Box for Making Milk Cheese. Cheese-box (see Fig. 424) or mould, sprinkling salt between the layers. See that the curd is moderately dry before packing- in the box. Put the lid on the box and turn every day, placing a very light weight on the top. Cheese-moulds or vats are for the most part round, but any mould per- forated all round about with holes, and having a lid that fits inside will do. These are more convenient for making milk or cream Cheeses in small quantities, but the usual vats are to be preferred. Neufchatel Cheese.—Of all the foreign-made salted milk Cheeses that reach our shores, this favourite is the smallest. The Cheese known as Bondon is a species of Neufchatel, but generally so exceedingly salt and dry to the taste that they are not favourites. The ordinary Neufchatel, as imported direct from the Department of Seine-et-Oise, in France, is Cheese—continued. rich and well-flavoured, weighing about 5oz. or 6oz. each, the best samples being blue veined. British imitations are not unknown in the market, but they are extremely inferior. New-milk Cheese.—See Milk Cheese. North Wilts Cheese.—A cylindrical-shaped Cheese, with a smooth hard rind, and small size, weighing not more than 101b. or 121b. It is considered rich, and of a very delicate flavour, being Cheddar in typo. The name is taken from the locale of their manufacture. Parmesan Cheese.—As the name indicates, this Cheese is a native manufacture of Parma in the north of Italy. It possesses such a delicious sweet taste that it is universally employed by cooks for culinary purposes, especially when grated. The milk from which this Cheese is made is drawn from cows which are kept in sheds all the year round, and fed in summer on cut grass and in winter on fine hay. The cream skimmed from the milk is used for butter, or cream Cheese making, so that Parmesan Cheese is not of a very buttery quality, and the rennet is added to the skimmed milk at a temperature of 80deg. to 89deg. Fahr., and the whole is then placed over a slow fire and the temperature raised to about 120deg., the curd meanwhile separating in small lumps. Saffron is sometimes added to the milk before heating-, giving it a yellowish-green hue, and the curd is then put under pressure. These Cheeses are of enormous size, shaped in large flat hoops, then edges rounded, and weighing about 1801b. each, and are of a dark, almost black, colour on the outside, brought about by dressing with colouring, and rubbing with linseed oil, until a good surface is procured. Parmesan Cheese takes about three years to ripen, and as its size necessitates some time being- occupied in its consumption, it is advisable to cover the cut surfaces with paper steeped in sweet oil. Pont-l’Eveque Cheese.—A new-milk Cheese named after the place of its manufacture. It is pronounced inferior to Brie Cheese, but has an excellent local reputation, and deserves to be better known. Pontgibaucl Cheese. —A kind of foreign Cheese that is allowed to ripen at a very low temperature. It is very similar to Roquefort. Port du Salut Cheese.—This genuine favourite should be better known in this country. The flavour of it is most pala- table and mild, the substance soft and pasty, and it possesses all the qualities of the best Cheeses. This Cheese is shaped into round cakes, weighing from 51b. to 81b. each, and they are stamped with the name of the place of their manufacture. Pot Cheese.—Put 2qts. of sour milk and lqt. of butter- milk in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until scalding hot ; then take it off, and with a skimmer remove the curd from the whey. Put the curd in a muslin bag, tie it, and hang up to drain for an hour or two. Moisten the curd slightly with cream, mix a small quantity of salt with it, work it well with the hands, then mould it into small balls. Lay these on a dish, cover them over, and set in a cool place until ready to serve. Roquefort Cheese.—(I) This Cheese owes its peculiarity to being made of ewes’ milk, although some makers are now using the milk of the cow. Naturally, therefore, it possesses a peculiar pungency and flavour, although in other respects it somewhat resembles other veined Cheeses. Upon the Continent Roquefort takes precedence of many other Cheeses, whether foreign or native ; but in this country it is not so highly esteemed for general purposes. It should not be cut until considerably advanced in the process of decay, and then its excellence cannot be denied. The mould is produced by the introduction of mouldy breadcrumbs, and by pricking to admit the air. (2) Imitation. — Take the required quantity of prepared gluten of wheat, mix in salt to taste, and a small quantity of a solution of stareh. Form the mixture into the shape of the Cheese, and it is ready for use. If left for a little time it soon acquires the taste, smell, and unctuosity of Cheese, and if kept for any length of time it is not easily distinguished from Roquefort. By varying the process slightly other Cheeses can be imitated. Rush. Cream Cheese.—The chief feature of this over other cream Cheeses is that it is wrapped in a rush mat to ripen.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 346 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. The curd is obtained by rennet from milk, or milk and cream, at a temperature not exceeding 95deg\ Fahr. When set, the curds may be collected with an ordinary fish-slice, and a rush shape, covered with a cloth, filled. Lay a Jib. weight in a saucer, and set this on the top of the strained curd for a few hours, and then increase the weight to about Jib.; change the cloths daily until the Cheese looks mellow, then put into the rush shape. The formula in use in France, where willow heart- shape baskets are sold for making this Cheese, is as follows : Add J pint of new warm milk to 1 pint of freshly-skimmed cream. Dissolve in this 1 teaspoonful of fine sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of common rennet or 30 drops of Hansen’s extract of rennet. Let it remain in a warm place until the curd sets. Bush and straw mats are easily made by cutting the straw into lengths and stringing them with a needle and thread. The mats or baskets should not be used a second time. Sage Cheese or Green Cheese.—This is a species of cream Cheese made by adding sage-leaves and greening to the milk. A very good receipt for it is given thus: Bruise the tops of fresh young red sage-leaves with an equal quantity of spinnach-leaves and squeeze out the juice. Add this to the extract of rennet, and stir into the milk as much as your taste may deem sufficient. Break the curd when it comes, salt it, fill the vat high with it, press for a few hours, and then turn the Cheese every day. Sapsago Cheese.—See Schabzeiger. Schabzeiger Cheese (Sapsago).—This Swiss Cheese is pre- pared from the solids of the whey, chiefly sugar of milk. It resembles the Myseost of Norway, and is insipid to the taste, and not likely to become an article of general consumption. The odour is strong, and the taste somewhat powerful and coarse. It is made up into balls about 4in. in diameter. Slipcoat Cheese.—A very rich fresh curd Cheese, buttery and white. Snow Cheese.—Although this can scarcely be included amongst the Cheeses it is often supplied to table as a sweet substitute. Blanch and pound ljoz. of sweet almonds and mix with them by degrees lqt. of cream well sweetened with powdered white sugar; add 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, 1 table-spoonful of ratafia, and the strained juice of three lemons. Taste it and if not sweet enough add more sugar. Whisk all together till quite thick. Put a piece of muslin into a sieve; then put the Cheese into the sieve and let it stand for twelve hours. Take it out, lay it on a dish, and serve. Stilton Cheese.—The king of British Cheeses, and therefore, as it commands a high price, one of those most subject to spurious imitations. Although Stilton takes its title from a town of that name in Huntingdon, it is chiefly manufactured near Melton Mowbray, in other parts of Leicestershire, and in Nottinghamshire. It is cylindrical in shape, twice as long as broad, weighing about 121b., and having a very rough, irregular whitish rind. When cut the substance should be white, friable yet mellow, and marked with greenish blue veins. According to the prevalence of these the Cheese will be judged; but as Stilton takes some three to six months to ripen many expedients have been resorted to to give the appearance of age to young Cheeses. Bich new milk, to which a proportion of cream is added, the quality varying in proportion to the skill with which it is manufactured. The milk is set at OOdeg. Fahr., the curd is broken down in an hour, removed into large strainer cloths, from which the whey gradually escapes. As the curd becomes firm, it is broken up and aired until sufficiently acid for salting and vatting. The vats, hoops, or moulds are filled by hand and turned regularly until the Cheese can be removed, it is then enveloped in a clean binder every day until the crust begins to form, when it goes into the curing-room, and ripens better when the temperature is well maintained at from 53deg. to 55deg. Stracchino Cheese.—A rich Cheese made in Italy. Tao-foo Cheese.—This is prepared by the Chinese from peas as follows : The peas are ground and steeped and the paste boiled, causing the starch to dissolve with the casein, and when strained it is coagulated by adding a solution of gypsum. This is then worked up in the same way as sour milk for other j Cheese—continued. Cheeses, salted, pressed into moulds, and used as desired. In the streets of Canton it is a common article of merchandise. Westphalian Cheese.—The Cheese known by this name receives its title from the country in which it is made. It is produced in the shape of small balls or rolls, each weighing about lib. The secret of its peculiar flavour is due to the curd being allowed to partially putrefy before the Cheese is put under the press. Wiltshire Cheese.—This Cheese may be regarded as a loaf-shaped Cheddar. York Cheese.— A variety of curd Cheese that is too rich to keep, and is therefore better known in its own locality, where it is a general favourite. When buying Cheese it is well to have some indica- tions to go by that shall insure the purchaser from fraud, and these will be found described in the foregoing list; but as the retail purchaser buys by taste it is usual to take out a plug from the Cheese by means of a Cheese-taster—a sort of gouge (see Fig. 425)—which is thrust into the Cheese and by a circular motion brings out with it a long piece from the interior, proving the quality throughout. The outside part of the plug should be returned to corlc up the hole made lest the air injure the substance of the Cheese. In some districts it is usual to buy new Cheese and store it; but this is not a good plan, as the quality of a Cheese depends so much upon the changes that take place in it during ripening, and these changes are due to and caused by microbic influences that may not be formed in any other store than the original. The peculiar flavours of Cheeses are said to be due to some such inlluence, as well as to the character of the milk, which depends upon the cow and its food. When a Cheese has been cut, if it is desired to keep it fresh and soft, it is advisable to take off no more than is required for immediate use, and then to wipe butter over the cut surface or protect it with a buttered or oiled paper. Before starting on the following receipts let it be remembered that hard Cheeses, like Parmesan, are best for grating, and that buttery Cheeses, like Gloucester, are best for cooking. Cream and milk Cheeses may be served with sweets or salads, but not with strong flavours or pungent condiments. American Rarebit (sometimes called Gherkin Buck).—Put into a saucepan Jib. or so of Cheese, sprinkle over pepper to taste, pour over J teacupful of ale, and convert the whole into a pulp or mass over the fire, stirring- continually. In about two minirtes it should be done. Pour it over slices of hot toast, place a piece of broiled bacon on the top of each, and serve as hot as possible. Baked Cheese.—(1) Grate 3oz. of Parmesan Cheese, or any Cheese hard enough and dry enough to grate, put it in a basin and add to it J saltspoonful of pepper, nearly as much dry mustard, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 3 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Mix together and then moisten it with 1 tea- cupful of milk, stirring it well together. Grease a flat dish with dripping, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, or in a Dutch oven in front of the fire for half-an-hour. Serve immediately. (2) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of slightly-salted water, and place the pan on the fire; as soon347 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. •for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. as the liquor boils mix in 7oz. of flour, and cook for a few minutes. Bemove the saucepan from the fire, add the yolks and the well-whipped whites of four eggs, and stir in Jib. of grated Gruyere Cheese. Pour the mixture into a dish, cover the top with thin slices of Cheese, brush the surface over with yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty-five minutes. Take out the Cheese when done, and serve. (3) Pound to a paste in a mortar Jib. of Cheddar Cheese, and if cut in thin pieces it will be easier to pound. Beat well the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and blond the beaten eggs and cream by deg-rees with the pounded Cheese. Put the mixture into a small baking-dish and bake it for ten or fifteen minutes. Baked Cheese Pudding'.—Beat well four eggs, and mix with them loz. of butter melted to oil and 1 gill of cream, then add and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs and lib. of grated Cheese. Pour this mixture into a dish lined with puff paste, and bake. Boiled Cheese.—(1) Chop small Jib. of any mild Cheese, put it into a basin with 1 teacupful of cream, and melt it in the oven or over the fire ; then sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and work in the yolk of an egg. Have ready a few small rounds of toast, put them at the bottom of cups or glasses, pour the Cheese mixture over, and serve. (2) Put J pint of beer into a small saucepan, chop Jib. of Cheese and put it into the beer, and stir over the fire until the Cheese is melted and it is on the point of boiling; then take it off at once, pour it over slices of buttered toast, and serve while very hot. (3) Put 4oz. of grated Cheese into a saucepan with J tea- cupful of milk and a very small lump of butter. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly one well-beaten egg. Turn the mixture on to a hot dish, brown it under a sala- mander, dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper over, and serve. Cake of Cheese.—Use about a quarter of a fat Brie Cheese, chop it, then pound in a mortar; pass the Cheese through a fine wire sieve, and mix with it 2J breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Slightly warm fib. of butter and work it in with the Cheese, then mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Gruyere Cheese and six well-beaten eggs. Work all the ingredients well together, roll the paste out, mould it into a flat cake, and mark it with a knife in squares (see Fig. 426). Lay it on a baking-tin and bake in a moderate oven. When nicely browned, put the cake of Cheese on a hot dish, and serve. Cheese Aigrettes.—Mix 3oz. of flour with J pint of water, put it in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and let it boil a-quarter- of-an-hour, stirring all the time. Take it off the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, 3oz. of grated Cheese, a little cayenne and salt, and beat it thoroughly with a wooden spoon. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a froth and add them to the mixture. Put a little fat in a saucepan, and when not very hot drop the paste in, a table-spoonful at a time. When they are brown, servo while hot. Cheese d’Artois.—Beat the yolks of two and the white of one egg for a few minutes, and then add 2oz. of melted butter, 3oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and a little pepper and salt. Boll about 3oz. of puff paste out rather thin, and cut it in halves ; spread the Cheese over one half, and the other half over that. Cut it in rounds, wet the edges to make the paste stick, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. Cheese—continued. Cheese Biscuits.—(1) Grate 5oz. of any Cheese into a mortar, mix with it a teacupful of the finest wheat-flour and Jib. of cream curds, season with a small quantity of salt, and pound well, adding gradually 5oz. of warmed butter ; then stir in sufficient beaten eggs to make a stiff: paste. Sprinkle a little flour over a table, put the paste on it, and roll it out till very thin. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter about 1 Jin. in diameter, arrange them on buttered baking-sheets, leaving a small space between each, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, put the biscuits on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded table-napkin placed on a hot dish, and serve them while hot. (2) Grate Jib. of Parmesan Cheese in a basin, and mix with it about two-thirds of the quantity of finely-grated stale breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper and salt; warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it with two eggs, then stir them in with the other ingredients ; mix well together, and let it stand for an hour or so. When ready, knead the paste well, roll it out as thin as possible, cut it into strips or triangles (whichever are preferred), and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked (they will require from fifteen to eighteen minutes) put the biscuits on a hot dish, having first placed a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on it, and serve them. (3) Prepare a small quantity of puff paste, roll it out on a' floured table, grate as much Parmesan Cheese over it as will thickly cover the surface, sprinkle over a little cayenne pepper, double the paste over, and then roll it out very thin. With a round tin cutter, about 2in. in diameter, cut the paste into rounds, brush these over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg', put them on a floured baking-sheet, leaving a short space between each, and bake in a quick oven till lightly browned. When cooked, arrange the biscuits on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. (4) Put an equal quantity of grated Cheese, butter, and flour into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and add a little salt and cayenne. When the mixture is smooth, cut it into shapes like biscuits, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake to a rich golden colour. Take them out and serve. The biscuits should be made about the sizo of macaroons. (5) Make some rich paste, roll it out very thin, strew all over it grated Cheese, sprinkle over the Cheese pepper and salt, and roll it up tight; then roll it out again thinner than before, and strew grated Cheese all over it, and again sprinkle it with pepper and salt; roll it up tight, and let it stand in a cold place for half-an-hour. Then roll it out again, and cut it into any desired shapes, prick them over with a fork or docker, and bake them quickly in a hot oven. Before taking them out brush over with beaten egg, and strew over them a little very finely-grated Cheese, then shut them into the oven to let them glaze. They may be served either hot or cold. (6) Mix together 2oz. of finely-grated Cheese, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of warmed butter, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Work the whole into a smooth paste, adding a little water, and roll it out thinly. Cut the paste into finger lengths, lay them on baking-sheets, and bake lightly. When cooked, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, spread on a dish, and serve while hot. Cheese Brioches.—(1) Make this paste as for other brioches. Have ready some Swiss Cheese, cut it into dice, and throw these into the paste while it is still liquid. Bake it as other brioches are baked. (2) Mix with a brioche paste (which should be rather soft) lib. of Gruyere Cheese cut into small dice, Jib. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper; then shape it, egg over it, place in a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Serve hot. Or it cau be cut into small pieces, made in different shapes, baked on a baking-sheet in a hot oven for about half-an-hour, and served very hot on a dish covered with a napkin. See Brioches. Cheese Canapes a la Journeaux.—Cut some pieces of bread Jin. thick, trim off the crusts, and then cut up lin. wide and 3in. long ; fry these a delicate brown in clarified butter, grate a little Cheese over them, sprinkle a little cayenne pepper and salt on the tops, and put them in the oven untilTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 348 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d:c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. the Cheese has melted. Serve while hot. A fillet of anchovy shredded into two laid lengthwise on these Canapes are an improvement, and they may be eaten cold with salad a la Journeaux. They may also be garnished with finely-chopped fried parsley. See Fig. 427. Cheese Cream.—Put some cream and milk into a saucepan, using two-thirds more of the former than of the latter. Place them over the fire until hot, then put in a small quantity of rennet, cover the saucepan, and keep it in a warm place until the contents are curdled. Turn the curds into a perforated china mould, and leave them to drain for an hour or two. When ready, put the curds on a dish, strew caster sugar over them, and serve with cream. Cheese Custard.—Put 2oz. or 3oz. of finely-scraped Cheese into a basin, and beat it up with two eggs and 1 teacupful of milk. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, place a few small lumps of butter on the top, bake for a few minutes, and serve. Cheese ringers.—(1) Put 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cleese into a basin, and mix it up with 1 saltspoonful of cayenne and 1 pinch of salt. Poll out thin 4oz. of rich puff paste, spread the Cheese mixture over it, turn the paste over, and cut it into pieces about 3in. long and §in. wide. Put them on a buttered baking-sheet in a sharp oven, and bake for fifteen minutes; take them out, dust over with more grated Parmesan Cheese, pile them on a dish, and serve very hot. Parmesan Cheese is the only Cheese that should be used. (2) To 3oz. of flour add 1 saltspoonful of baking-powder, mix it thoroughly with the flour, rub in 2oz. of butter, add 3oz. of grated Cheese, and salt and cayenne to taste. Mix all this to a stiff paste with a little milk, roll it out and cut into strips about 3in. long or a little longer, roll them round like fingers, and bake on a tin for five minutes in a quick oven. They should only be lightly browned. Cheese Pondu.—(1) Put five or six eg'gs into a saucepan, mix in a third of their weight in grated Parmesan Cheese, and half this quantity in butter, and stir well over a slow fire until the eggs are set. Pour the mixture into a dish, and serve very hot. Slices of toast should accompany this. (2) Remove all the crust from a French roll, and pour ^ pint of boiling milk on the crumb; whisk the yolks of two eggs, pour them over, add jib. of grated Cheese, and beat them all well together. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with the rest, put the preparation in a tart-dish, with a high band of paper round, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve while hot. (3) Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of very fine dry breadcrumbs in barely 1 breakfast-cupful of new milk. Beat separately the yolk and white of an egg, working until very light. Dissolve 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little hot water, and mix it with the milk and breadcrumbs; stir in the beaten yolk and white of the egg, melt ^oz. of butter and stir it in, shake in a little pepper and salt, and then mix in 4oz. of grated Cheese. Butter a shallow pudding-dish, and pour this fondu into it; strew some dry breadcrumbs over the top, and bake in a rather hot oven till it is nicely browned. As it soon falls, serve it in the dish it was baked in as quickly as possible. Cheese Fritters.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of flour into a bowl, warm loz. of butter till it is melted, and pour it into the middle of the flour; add to this gradually, stirring and beating all the time, 1 breakfast-cupful of Cheese—continued. lukewarm water, then, still stirring, drop in the yolks of two eggs, and shake in 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard. Stir in 6oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese and the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Drop this mixture, a table- spoonful at a time, into boiling lard or clarified fat (fat or lard does not boil till the bubbling ceases and it becomes still). As the fritters get firm, turn them over with a skewer that they may brown evenly; as soon as they are nicely browned, take them up with a small wire strainer, lay them on a sheet of paper to drain for an instant, put them on a hot napkin in a dish, and serve them garnished with fried parsley. (2) Put 1 pint of water into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, and place it over the fire until boiling-, then move it to the side; dredge in gradually about jib. of flour, stirring it with a wooden spoon; then place the saucepan over the fire again and stir until the flour is cooked. Move it off and let it cool a little. Grate Ooz. of Parmesan Cheese, and beat the yolks of six eggs; whisk the whites of the eggs separately to a stiff froth. Stir these ingredients into the cooled mixture, adding the whites of eggs last; season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put a large lump of fat into a stewpan and place it over the fire. With two teaspoons con- stantly dipped in boiling water shape the mixture into small egg-shaped pieces, and drop them into the fat. When they are crisp and lightly browned all over, take them out of the fat, and drain them well on a piece of paper or a wire sieve which should be placed near the fire. When all are cooked and drained, arrange the fritters on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Strew grated Cheese and a dust of salt over them, and serve. Cheese Fritters Souffles.—Only a Gouffe could concoct such a dish as the following : Put l^oz. of butter into 1 pint of hot water with a little salt and pepper. When it boils, add jib. of flour and a teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir over the fire for three minutes. Break in. three eggs, one at a time, and add loz. of lean cooked ham cut into small dice. Grease some paper with cold fat and cut into strips 2in. wide ; then make the paste into balls about the size of a walnut, and place them on the strips of paper. Put 31b. of frying-fat on the fire in a frying-pan (try the heat with a piece of breadcrumb, when the bread should only produce a very slight fizzing), dip each strip of paper in the frying-fat till the balls of paste are detached from it, and fry these gently, stirring with a skimmer. When of an even yellow colour, drain them first on a sieve and then on a cloth, sprinkle with sugar, dish them up on a napkin, and serve, garnished with fried parsley. Cheese Omelet.—(1) Cut several small pieces of Cheese about iin. thick, arrange them on their edges round the sides of a baking-dish, and cover the bottom of the dish with sifted browned breadcrumbs ; place thin slices of Cheese over this, then three or four eggs, not broken, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated Cheese, and finally a layer of the browned breadcrumbs. Put a few small lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in the oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes, or until the eggs are quite firm, but not hard. When done, serve as hot as possible. (2) Whip three eggs, and then add 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese and a little pepper and salt. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and, when it is melted, pour in the eggs, stirring quickly to keep it from sticking. When just set, turn it quickly on the other side, and then on to a hot dish. Serve very hot. (3) Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan, and heat it on the hot stove. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, beat them thoroughly for four minutes, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Swiss Cheese, pinch of salt, and j pinch of pepper. Pour the whole into the frying-pan, and make an omelet. Turn this on to a hot dish, besprinkle the top lightly with a very little grated Parmesan Cheese, put it in the oven for two seconds, and then serve. Cheese Fatties.— (1) Get a slice of bread llin. thick, cut it into small rounds with a cutter, and with a smaller cutter hollow out the middle to make a little cup. Fry them in butter, first dipping them in milk and egg-and-breadcrumbs. Mix349 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. together 2oz. of grated Cheese, loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of milk, and a little salt and cayenne; fill the breads with this mixture, stand them in the oven, and as soon as the Cheese is melted, serve them. (2) Cut off some thick slices of stale bread and trim them into rounds with a cake-cutter. Scoop out a piece from the middle of each round so that it shall form a kind of shallow cup. Break an egg and separate the yolk from the white; beat up the white, and dip the cup-shaped pieces of bread into it. Strew them with fine breadcrumbs, fry a pale brown, and put them on paper to drain. Beat up the yolk of the egg. Boil up 4 pint of water, and stir into it loz. of butter, 5 table-spoonfuls of grated Cheese, and pepper and salt to taste ; when this is all melted, take the saucepan off the fire and stir in the yolk of the egg, put it on the fire for an instant to get hot, but do not let it boil, and then stir in J teacupful of breadcrumbs. Place a table-spoonful of this into the hollow of each of the pieces of fried bread, put them into a hot oven, and brown them quickly. Serve on a hot dish on a napkin. See Fig. 428. Clieese Pudding. -(1) Put 2oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream ; then mix in Jib. of finely-grated Cheese, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and two eggs beaten until qui^e light. Sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste; turn the mixture into a well-buttered basin, put it into a moderate oven, and bake to a light brown. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot, with slices of toast for garnish. (2) Mix Jib. of grated Cheese, 2oz. of butter, four eggs, and a little cayenne and nutmeg. Butter a small pan, pour the mix- ture in, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve hot for supper. (3) Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, slice thinly into it Jib. of Cheese, and add 1J teacupfuls of milk; stir it over the fire till the Cheese is melted. Then take the saucepan from the fire and add the yolks of two eggs, and stir them well in. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly; then pour it all into a small pudding-dish, bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve at once. (4) Put into a saucepan 1 pint of fresh milk, 3|oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, two beaten eggs, and Jib. of grated Cheese. Put the saucepan over the fire and stir till the Cheese is melted, then pour the pudding into a buttered dish and brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. Cheese Puffs or Ramekins.—(1) Put in a stewpan J pint of water and 2oz. of butter, and when it boils add Jib. of flour; stir this slowly over the fire for three or four minutes, then mix in Jib. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and break in three eggs one at a time. Butter a baking-sheet and put the paste on it in lumps about the size of an egg; flatten them a little, brush the tops over with egg, put some pieces of Gruyere Cheese cut in dice on each, bake, and serve very hot. (2) Grate Jib. of any dry, rich Cheese. Butter one dozen small paper cases, or little boxes of stiff writing-paper like souffle-cases. Put a saucepan containing 1 gill of water over the fire, add 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and when the water boils stir in 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and beat the mixture until it shrinks away from the sides of the saucepan ; then stir in the grated Cheese. Remove the paste thus made from the fire, and let it partly cool. In the meantime separate the yolks from the whites of three eggs, and beat them until the yolks foam and the whites make a stiff froth. Stir the yolks in with the paste first, and next lightly mix in the whites. Put Cheese—continued. the mixture at once into the buttered paper cases, only half filling them (as they rise very high while being baked), lay on the top small slices of Cheese symmetrically, and Fig. 429. Cheese Ramekin. bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. As soon as the puffs are done, put the cases on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve very hot. See Fig 429. (3) Put loz. of butter into a basin, heat it to oil, and beat in an egg; then add Coz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, sprinkled with cayenne to taste, and loz. of flour. When thoroughly incorporated, roll the paste on a floured board, cut it into fancy shapes, brush over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out when a good brown colour, sprinkle over grated Cheese, and serve when slightly cooled. (4) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and mix in 3oz. of flour and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; stir well, and boil for a few minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, mix in lightly the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, add 2oz. of finely-grated Parmesan Cheese, and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper. When all these are thoroughly mixed, work in the whites of three eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Have ready the required number of paper ramekin-cases slightly greased with butter, put in sufficient of the mixture to three-parts fill them, place them carefully on a baking-sheet in a sharp oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes. When they are done, and well risen and browned, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. These ramekins should be served directly they are taken from the oven, or they will sink and spoil. (5) Scrape fine Jib. of Gloucester Cheese and Jib. of Cheshire Cheese. Beat this scraped Cheese in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, Jib. of fresh butter, and the crumb of a French roll boiled in cream till soft; when all this is well mixed and pounded to a paste, add the beaten whites of four eggs. Should the paste seem too stiff, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of sherry may be added. Put the paste into paper cases, and bake in a Dutch oven till nicely browned. The ramekins should be served very hot. Cheese and Rice.—Wash Jib. of rice in several waters; put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and when the water boils pour it off and add to the rice J pint of milk, and let it stew very slowly for twenty minutes. Grate Jib. of hard dry Cheese; then take a flat dish, scatter over it Joz. of dripping cut in small pieces, put on that a layer of rice, sprinkle over this some of the grated Cheese, shake on to that a little salt and pepper, then add another layer of rice, then grated Cheese, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and so on, rice and Cheese alternately, till all is on the dish. Then put on the top Joz. of dripping cut in small pieces, and put the dish in a Dutch oven in front of the fire till the top is nicely browned. Cheese Salad. -Put the yolk of a hard-boiled, very fresh egg into a basin, and rub it smooth with a table-spoonful of salad-oil; then add 1 teaspoonful each of salt, eayenne, sugar, and made mustard, mixing each one separately before another is added, and stir in Jib. of grated Cheese. The Cheese used for this should be as old as possible without being high. When all are well worked together, add 1 table-spoonful of onion-vinegar, put the mixture into scallop shells, and serve with shredded lettuce or other green salad. Cheese Sandwich.—(1) Grate 2oz. of Roquefort, Parmesan, or other Cheese, and work it well with a pat of butter. Spread350 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. <fcc.. referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. this on some thin slices of bread, put another thin slice on the top of each, press them gently together, cut the sandwiches into finger lengths, and arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnishing here and there with freshly- gathered parsley. Serve the sandwiches with salad. (2) Boil three eggs until hard, take the yolks only, and with loz. of butter, melted over the fire, mix and rub them to a smooth paste; grate 4oz. of Cheese and work it into the paste, season it to taste with pepper and salt. Cut three slices of thin bread-and-butter, spread half of each slice with one-third of this paste, and fold the other half of the slice over it. Cheese Souffles.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan and add 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour; when smooth, add 1 teacupful of milk, 4 teaspoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne, and cook two minutes ; then add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of g-rated Cheese, and set away to cool. When cold, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, turn into a buttered dish, and bake twenty-five or thirty minutes. Serve immediately. (2) Mix 2^-oz. of flour with 1| pints of milk, put this into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire until it boils ; then season with salt and pepper, and strain through a sieve. Grate 7oz. of Par- mesan Cheese, beat the yolks of seven eggs, and add these to the paste. Beat the whites of seven eggs until they are firm, and then mix with the rest. Pill some paper souffle-cases with the mixture, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. These are to be served directly they are out of the oven. (3) Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, and when it is warm mix the beaten yolks of ten eggs in with it; keep this on the fire for a few seconds, stirring slowly; when it is thickened take it off the fire, add gradually 7oz. of grated Swiss Cheese, 7oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and put in 4 saltspoonful each of pepper and sugar; then warm it very slowly, stirring all the time. Take it off the fire when it is smooth, and. add the whites of two eggs, previously whisked. Twenty-five minutes before serving the souffle, add the whites of six more whipped eggs, get nine middling-sized oblong paper cases, and fill them with this preparation ; spread some paper on a baking-sheet, stand the cases on it, and bake them in a slack oven. Serve while hot. See Fig. 430. (4) Put into a saucepan loz. of butter and let it melt; add also loz. of flour, and stir in gradually 1 teacupful of milk ; keep stirring till it boils, then throw in 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and about as much cayenne as may be stood on the face of a sixpence; let it boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Take the saucepan off the stove, and drop in before it cools the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and when they are well stirred in grate in 3oz. of Cheese. Beat all this well together ; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth and stir this in last, but stir very lightly and be careful not to beat down the froth. Pour this mixture into small paper cases, or if more convenient into tin cups, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When the souffles are done arrange the cups on a hot dish, and serve imme- diately. (5) Take 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 table-spoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of milk, |lb. of grated Cheese, three eggs, 4 .teaspoonful of salt, and a dust of cayenne. Put the butter in a saucepan, and when hot add the flour and stir until smooth, but not browned ; add the milk and seasoning, and cook two minutes ; then add the yolks of the eggs well beaten and the Cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add the whites beaten Cheese—con tinned. to a stiff froth. Put into a buttered dish, and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Serve the moment it comes from the oven. The dish in which this is baked should hold lqt. Cheese Soup.—(1) Take 14 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 pint of rich cream, 4 table-spoonfuls each of butter and grated Par- mesan Cheese, a dust of cayenne, two eggs, and 3qts. of clear- soup stock. Mix the flour, cream, butter, Cheese, and pepper together in a basin, place this in another of hot water, and stir until the mixture becomes a firm, smooth paste. Break into it two eggs, mix quickly and thoroughly, and cook two minutes longer ; then set it away to cool. When cold, roll into little balls about the size of a walnut. When the balls are all formed, drop them into boiling water and cook gently for five minutes. Puj^ them in the soup-tureen, pour the boiling stock over, and serve with a dish of finely-grated Parmesan Cheese. (2) Peel a large white onion, cut it into slices, and fry in a stewpan with a little butter; when it is brown, add 2qts. of broth, a bunch of parsley mixed with a little chervil, and a bay-leaf, and let it boil for ten minutes; then colour it with a few table-spoonfuls of good gravy, and remove it to the side of the fire. Toast lightly some thin slices of bread, put them in a soup-tureen, and sift over them some grated Parmesan Cheese and a little pepper; cut some Gruyere Cheese in small dice, put these in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. (3) Peel and finely mince an onion, put it into a sauce- pan with 41b. of butter and stir it over a brisk fire until browned, dredging in occasionally a small quantity of flour. Pour 2qts. of water over the onion, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it for ten minutes or so. Cover the bottom of a soup-tureen with a thin layer of grated Parmesan or Gruyere Cheese, and over that place a layer of thin slices of bread; put in another layer of Cheese, then a layer of bread, and so on until four layers of each are put in. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve over the Cheese and bread, and serve while very hot. Cheese Straws.—(1) Put 4 saltspoonful each of cayenne and salt in 2oz. of flour; then rub in 2oz. of butter, and add 2oz. of g'rated Parmesan Cheese; mix all these to a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg. Roll this out about 5in. long, cut it into strips and rings, lay them on a greased baking’- sheet, and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. When they are done put the straws through the rings like a bundle of sticks, and serve. (2) Mix to a paste 41b. of flour, 3oz. of grated Cheese, 4 saltspoonful of salt, and 4 saltspoonful of cayenne, with the yolk of an egg. Roll the paste out about 5in. long, cut it into strips, and twist these like paper spills. Flour a baking-sheet, lay the strips on it, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are crisp, but do not let them brown. (3) Roll scraps of puff paste thin, sprinkle with grated Cheese (and cayenne pepper if you like), fold, roll out, and sprinkle again; then repeat the process, and place on ice to get firm. When cold, roll out an oblong flat Jin. thick, place it on a baking-sheet, and with a pastry-cutter cut into strips 4in. or 5in. long and less than 4in. wide. Bake, and Fig. 431. Cheese Straws. serve piled in cross triangles or squares (see Fig. 431). When the paste is very hard, they are cut as narrow as possible, laid in the pan in groups of five or six, with one straw bound round the middle to represent a bundle of straws, and baked in that position.351 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. (4) Work 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese into 2oz. of puff paste, sprinkle over a little cayenne, roll out the paste to about -Jin. in thickness, cut it into narrow strips, arrange these on a baking-sheet brushed over with water, and bake in a quick oven for five or sis minutes. Turn them care- fully on to a dish, and serve. Cheese Tartlets.—Line two dozen tartlet-moulds with some ; puff paste rolled out thin. Put in a saucepan 4 table-spoon- fuls of gTated Parmesan Cheese, 1 table-spoonful of flour, ; 2oz. of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and 1 pinch of salt, and stir this over a slow fire until the butter is melted ; then take it off and let it cool. Whip the whites of four eggs, mix them with the other, fill the tartlet-moulds with the mixture, stand them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a slow oven. When done, j take them out, sprinkle over the tops a little grated Parmesan Cheese, and serve while hot. Cheese Toasts.—(1) Cut 4oz. of old Cheese into very thin slices, put these into a frying-pan with ^ teacupful of milk, a small lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and stir well over the fire until the Cheese is melted; then add two well-beaten eggs, and another | teacupful of milk, and cook for one minute. Have ready some slices of hot toasted bread without crusts, spread the mixture over them, and serve hot. (2) Chop 4oz. of Gloucester Cheese, put it in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound to a smooth paste; then mix with it 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard and f wineglass- ful of sherry. Season to taste with salt, and add a small quantity of powdered mace if liked. Cut six rounds of bread about 3in. in diameter; put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until the blue smoke rises, then put in the rounds of bread, and fry them until a pale golden colour. Drain the pieces of bread on paper for a few minutes, then spread the above mixture over them ; lay them on a baking-sheet and put into a brisk oven for seven or eig-ht minutes. Garnish a hot dish with a folded table- napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, arrange the toasts on it, brighten them up with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Cheese Trifles.—Mix together the beaten yolk of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of cream, loz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and a seasoning of cayenne ; then whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth and beat it lightly in. Line some small patty-pans with thin puff paste, put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Cream-Cheese Fritters. - Cut some cream Cheese into very thin slices and mask them with apricot or other jam ; dip them into batter flavoured with noyeau, plung-e into boiling fat or oil, fry, drain, and serve. Cream Cheese with Marmalade.—Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then take it off and mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of any kind of marmalade preferred, and a small quantity of finely-chopped, candied lemon-peel. Leave the cream till nearly cold, put a moderate amount of rennet in it, and turn into a mould. When ready to serve, turn the Cheese on to a dish and sift caster sugar over. Cream-Cheese Fuff's.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk and 2oz. of butter into a saucepan.; bring them to the boil, and stir in sufficient flour to form a stiffish paste, letting it dry over the fire. Then add and mix in a small cream Cheese about 6oz. in weight, 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 2 tahle- spoonfuls of well-whipped cream, a little salt, and three or four eggs. The paste should not he too thin ; more flour must be used if required to thicken. Poll out about lib. of puff paste as thin as possible, cut it into rounds about 2in. in diameter, put a little of the preparation in the centre of each, turn up the edges of the paste so as to form a three-cornered cup, brush the top and sides over with egg, put them into a moderate oven, and bake to a light brown. Take them out, dust over with caster sugar, and they are ready for use. Two table-spoonfuls of whipped cream may be used as a substitute for the cream Cheese. (2) Take 3oz. of freshly-made cream curd and let it be scalded and drained (the curd is obtained by adding rennet to lqt. of cream). Boil i pint of milk with loz. of butter in it, drop in 1 teacupful of flour all at once, and stir the paste over the fire for a few minutes; then put Cheese —continued. in the 3oz. of cream curd and 2oz. of grated Cheese, and pound the mixture smooth, next beating in three eggs, one at a time. Put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of this Cheese- flavoured mixture into patty-pans, lined thinly with pie- paste, and bake in a slack oven; or else cut out flats of patty-paste very thinly rolled ; put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in the middle, pinch up the sides like a three- cornered hat, and bake on a greased baking-sheet. They will open out in baking, and Americans eat them with apple sauce. Creamed Cheese.—Grate fib. of Cheese into a saucepan, and add half the quantity of butter, the yolks of four eggs, a little cayenne and salt, and 1 teacupful of milk. Warm the mixture over the fire, taking care not to let it boil, turn it out on to a dish, and it is ready for use. Gherkin Buck.—See American Rarebit. Golden Buck.—This is an American favourite. Cut up into 'small pieces about lib. of Cheese (American for preference), put them in a saucepan, sprinkle over a little pepper, pour over f tumblerful of ale or beer, and stir over the fire, using a wooden spoon, until the whole is quite melted, which should not take longer than a couple of minutes. Arrange six pieces of hot toast on a dish, pour over the preparation, place a poached egg on the top of each, garnish with small sprigs of fried parsley (see Fig. 432), and serve as hot as possible. See American Rarebit, or Gherkin Buck. Hot Cheese Paste.—Put fib. of Cheshire Cheese in a mortar, and pound it well with loz. of butter, 3 teaspoonfuls of mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. When these ingredients are well mixed and pounded together, put the mass in jars in a cool place, and it will keep good for some time. Iced Cream Cheese.—Put 1 pint of cream in a saucepan, with the grated peel of half a lemon and 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and boil it for three or four minutes. Beat the yolks of ten eggs; move the cream off the fire and stir the eggs in gradually; stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes, but without allowing it to boil again. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, turn it into a freezer, and work it until frozen. Take the frozen Cheese up in table-spoonfuls, and shape and stamp them like small pats of butter. Arrange them on a dish and serve them. Mock Crab.—(1) Rub loz. of grated Cheese and loz. of butter together, and when they are well mixed add 1 saltspoonful of dry mustard, f saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, a few drops of essence of anchovy, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and a little salt. Work it into a smooth paste, and spread it on slices of dry toast. (2) Put about 4oz. of any Cheese, Double Gloucester for choice, into a mortar, and beat it up .with 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and made mustard. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, turn the mixture on to a dish, and it is ready for use. (3) Chop fine about 4oz. of Cheese—mellow Cheese for pre- ference—put it into a mortar, with a little cayenne, salt, and 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, and pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar and a small quantity of salad-oil. Continue to pound until the mixture has the appearance of cream, then add 12oz. of picked shrimps. Stuff the preparation into a crab shell on a dish, with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of lemon for garnish, and serve. Potted Cheese.—Take lib. of Cheshire Cheese, cut it into dice, and put these in a mortar with 6oz. of butter,TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 352 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar finely powdered, and 1 tea- spoonful of mace ; then pour over 4 wineglassfuls of sherry, and pound well together after it has stood for two or three minutes to soak. Work it into a smooth paste, and place in jars, putting clarified butter over the top. Pounded Cheese.—Chop about lib. of good dry Cheese, put it in a mortar with 3oz. of butter, and pound to a smooth paste. Mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of made mustard, curry powder, and ground spice, and % tea- spoonful of black pepper. Stir 1 wineglassful of sherry into the mixture. Cut some slices of bread about iin. in thickness, then cut each slice into halves lengthwise; spread the Cheese mixture over them, and dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper on the top of each. Arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. This makes a good luncheon or supper dish. The Cheese mixture can be kept for several days in a cool place if pressed down into jars and covered with paper. Roasted Cheese.—Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped Cheese in a mortar with a breakfast-cupful of grated bread- crumbs and 3oz. of butter ; pound them well, and then mix in i table-spoonful of mixed mustard and the beaten yolks of two eggs; season with salt and pepper. Cut some slices of bread about iin. thick, toast them, then cut them into strips. Spread each piece of toast thickly with the Cheese mixture, and fix them in a Dutch oven; put them in front of a clear fire and roast until lightly browned. The oven must not be placed too close to the fire at first, or the Cheese will take colour before it is hot. Arrange the bars of toast, crossing each other, on a hot dish over which has been laid a folded napkin on an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while very hot. A small quantity of cayenne pepper may be sprinkled over the Cheese if it is liked. Roquefort-Clieese Sandwich. — Grate 2oz. of Boquefort Cheese, work it to a paste with loz. of butter, using a knife for the purpose, and season with salt and pepper. When quite smooth, spread the paste on some slices of bread, cover with more slices of bread, press them gently together, and cut into fingers. If liked, chopped parsley, or chives, or both, may be mixed with the Cheese ; and it may be spread on crackers instead of bread. It is generally served as a course after salad. Stewed Cheese.— (1) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a Cheese-stewer fitted with a hot-water bath (see Fig. 433), dissolve it, mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, stir well, add 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or other Cheese, and one well-beaten egg. Season with a pinch of cayenne, let this keep hot at the side of the fire until the whole is quite Fig. 433. Cheese-stewer. smooth, then turn it out on to pieces of toast on a dish, and serve at once. A Cheese-stewer divided into compart- ments is sometimes used (see Fig. 434), and then the Cheese mixture should be prepared in a basin and put in after. These stewers are sent to table. (2) Grate as finely as possible 8oz. of a good mellow Cheese; put a lump of butter, a little less than 2oz., in a Cheese-stewer with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and stir over the fire until dissolved; then put in the grated Cheese, and Cheese—continued. beat them all together. Toast some slices of bread, put them on a hot dish, pour the Cheese mixture over, and brown under a salamander. Serve while very hot. Stewed Cheese and Rice.—Thoroughly wash lib. of rice, tie it loosely in a cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until three-parts cooked, drain the rice, and turn it into a basin; mix with it -Jib. of thinly-sliced Cheese, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, loz. of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir in gradually J pint of milk, mixing it smoothly at the same time ; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, put it over the fire, and cook the rice until reduced to a pulp. When cooked turn the stew into a hot dish; garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve while very hot, or it may be spread over slices of hot buttered toast. “ Strohl ” Cheese.—Bub 6oz. of butter into 6oz. of flour, and add 6oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese and a little cayenne ; when this is well mixed add the yolks of three eggs and 1 table- spoonful of raw cream, and work all well together. Boll the paste out thin, divide it into strips 5in. long, put these on a baking-sheet, and bake in a hot oven. When they are done, put them in a dish with a folded napkin in it, and serve. Talmouses with Cheese.—Have ready 6oz. of choux-paste, without sugar or zest, keeping it a little stiller than is usually done. Cut some Gruyere Cheese in little dice, and mix it with the choux-paste and a pinch of pepper. Divide Jib. of rolled-out puff paste into rounds with a paste- cutter, put in the centre of each round a little piece of choux-paste, damp the edges a little round this paste, egg it, then fold over the edges of the puff paste flat on three sides, so as to obtain a kind of three-cornered cocked hat (see Fig. 435); dust grated Parmesan Cheese over them, put them on a greased baking-sheet, leaving- a little space between each, and- bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Serve while hot. Turkish Cheese Fritters.—Prepare a paste with 8oz. of flour and two eggs, roll it out as thin as possible, and over it spread grated Cheese and minced parsley; double the paste over once, cut it into shapes with a round biscuit-cutter or cup, put these into a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook until well browned. Take them out, drain off as much of the fat as possible, and serve immediately. Turkish Mode of serving- Cream Cheese.—Break about lib. of cream Cheese into small pieces, put them in a saucepan,TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 353 uces, k'c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cheese—continued. and stir over the fire until melted. Mix a small table- spoonful of flour with the Cheese, continue stirring it until smooth and the butter begins to run from the Cheese, then take it off and turn it on to a hot dish ; spread a layer of honey over, and serve immediately. Welsh Rarebit.— (1) Chop small Jib. of cooking Cheese, put it with 2oz. of butter in a little saucepan, and as the butter melts and the Cheese gets warm, mash them together. When softened, add two yolks of eggs, ^ teacupful of ale, and a little cayenne pepper and salt. Stir till it is creamy, but do not let it boil, for that would spoil it. Place some slices of buttered toast on a dish, pour the Welsh rarebit upon them, and set inside the oven about two minutes before serving. Some use milk instead of ale. (2) Take |lb. of Cheese and break it into small pieces if it is soft; but if hard, grate it. Put J teacupful of milk into a double boiler and add the Cheese. Mix 1 teaspoonful of mustard, a little cayenne, and £ teaspoonful of salt together, add one eg’g, and beat well. When the Cheese has melted, add the egg mixture and 1 teaspoonful of butter, and cook for two minutes longer, or until it is thick, taking care not to let it curdle. Pour the mixture over four slices of toast, without crusts, that have been kept warm, and then serve. Ale may be used in place of the milk, or cream substituted, if preferred. ■ (3) Cut up into small pieces lib. of American Cheese, place them in a saucepan, pour over )- tumblerful of good ale, and season with ^ saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. Stir continu- ally over the fire with a wooden spoon until the mass is well melted, which will take about ten minutes. Have ready six large pieces of toast, arrange them on a very hot dish, pour over the preparation, spreading it equally, and serve very hot. Welsh Rarebit an Gratin.—Cut off six slices of bread,'toast them lightly, cover with Gruytro Cheese cut into slices a little less than fin. thick, and lay them in a roasting-pan, sprinkling over pepper to taste and covering with browned breadcrumbs. Put the pan in the oven for about ten minutes. Arrange the toast on a very hot dish, and send to the table. Welsh-Rarebit Sandwich.—Put 7,1b. of mild American Cheese in a mortar with 2oz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of mustard, pound well together, and dilute with a small quantity of tarragon vinegar. Spread the mixture between slices of bread, and serve. Of the Pests to which Cheeses are subject, the two following are the commonest and most important: Cheese Hoppers.—These are the larvae of a two- winged fly (Piophila casei), which infests dairies and Cheese-stores, laying its eggs in cracks or crevices in the Cheese, which is destined to be the future food of the Fig. 436. Cheese Hoppers (Magnified). young. The fly (see Fig. 436) is small, with a shining black body, and having reddish forehead, antenna*, and legs. When the larvae are hatched they soon make their presence felt by their voracious attack upon the Cheese. They are called “hoppers” or “jumpers,” be- cause of their extraordinary power of springing into the air, which is brought about in the following marvellous manner: The maggot curls itself up until its head and tail meet, then it fastens two small hook-shaped man- dibles into the tail, and stretching itself until the circle formed is flattened, it suddenly lets go and springs into the air, and to a considerable distance. Swammerdam, the naturalist, saw one not jin. long jump out of a box Cheese—continued. .6in. deep, and he observes that this would equal, in pro- portion to size, a man jumping 50yds. into the air. The Cheese-fly is of the family Muscidw, to which the house-fly, blow-fly, and many others belong. To preserve Cheeses from these depredatory insects they should be brushed frequently, and all cracked or injured Cheeses should be moved, as soon as they are discovered, into separate stores. Cleanliness in the stores, dryness, and plenty of ventilation are the best preventatives. Cheese Mites.—The technical name for the species to which these little creatures belong is Acarus siro, more commonly known as Acarus domesticus. They are very minute insects, found in decayed Cheese, the dry and powdery parts consisting almost entirely of these and their ova in different stages of development. Upper View. Under View Fig. 437. Cheese Mites (Magnified). With the aid of a microscope the various gradations assumed on the way to maturity are exceedingly in- teresting, the period occupied from hatching to that stage occupying only eight days. By the illustrations given (see Fig. 437), it will be seen that the Cheese Mite is furnished with a long snout, forming strong, cutting, pointed mandibles, which the mite has the power of thrusting forward and withdrawing either one at a time or together. In this way a Cheese can be readily destroyed by them, for they crumble it into minute pieces, and emit as they proceed a liquid which causes the decay to spread rapidly. Blyth tells us that they appear to be very retentive of life, even without food. Leewenhoek confirms this, and adds further that one lived for eleven weeks gummed on its back to the point of a needle. He also observed that when kept for any length of time without food they are apt to fall upon and devour each other. A strong heat will kill them, and steeping a Cheese affected by them in whisky will have the same effect'. Some persons express a fondness for Cheese Mites, and devour them by the spoonful, even preferring them to Cheese, so they are wont to say. This may be, for as a matter of fact the mites taste of the Cheese in a milder form; but however depraved such a taste may be considered, it is exceeded by those who express a penchant for Cheese Hoppers. CHEESE CAKES.—In cookery it does not follow that cakes, or any other production, should always maintain the characteristics of manufacture or ingredients from which they originally derived a name. Numerous instances of name-perversion or mal-adaptation are familiar to cooks, but surely none are more erratic than the term with which we are now dealing. Originally, it is probable that cheese did form the prime constituent of the custard contained in the pastry case ; but if so, a corrupted taste has declared in favour of sweets before savouries. Our modern Cheese Cakes are more or less guiltless of cheese, but some adventurous chefs have cleverly combined the flavour of cheese with lemon custard, and have produced some 2 i354 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cheese Cakes—continued. excellent cakes, or tartlets, to which other names have been given, and the nearest connection we have to chronicle is the Cheese Cake made with curd. In Kettner’s “ Book of the Table ” there is a very rambling account of Benreddin Hassan’s connection with Cheese Cakes; but whether they should be strewn with grains of pomegranate and sugar, or Benreddin was beaten by his mother “for a pretended fault — that he ought to have put pepper upon them, and did not,” will not influence the flavour of those made in the present day, or the delicious richness of those sold at Richmond, near London, as “ Maids of Honour.” Several other varieties of Cheese Cakes are described under other headings, such as Almonds, Apples, Carrot, Citron, Cornflour, Lemon, Maids of Honour, Oranges, &c. (1) Take lgall. of milk, and stir in some fresh rennet. When the curd is formed, strain it into a large basin or bowl, adding Rb. of butter, and beating up well until quite smooth ; a little more than lib. of butter may be required, according to the quality of the milk. In another basin put the yolks of four eggs, the rinds of four lemons and the juice of two, 4oz. of fine biscuit powder, and lib. of finely-sifted caster sugar, and beat them up well until a stiff cream is formed ; then pour it into the curd, and mix all well together. Butter some tartlet-pans, line them with thin puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven until done. (2) Take about jib. of pressed curd, rub it through a wire sieve, and mix with it 2oz. of butter and jib. of sugar; add gently the yolks of three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a dozen tartlet-pans with tart-paste, put a little of the mixture in each, with a strip of candied lemon-peel, and bake in a moderately heated oven, upon a greased baking-sheet, until of a nice golden colour. When done, dish upon a fancy paper, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Beat the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar for twenty minutes, then mix in the grated rind and juice of one large lemon or two small ones. Butter a dozen small patty-pans, and line them with puff paste; put some of the above mixture in each and a small piece of butter on the top, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the cakes out of the tins, pile them on a dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve ; or they may be served cold. (4) Beat well with the hand (in a warm pan) before the fire jib. of butter, and add Jib. of caster sugar. When thoroughly mixed, add the yolks of two eggs, and beat again; then put in a little milk. Beat all well together, and mix in 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants. Line some patty- pans with puff paste, half fill them, sift a little sugar over, and bake in a hot oven. (5) Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan with 2oz. of caster sugar and beat well; pour in 1 pint of milk and a small quantity of lemon-juice. Place the saucepan over the fire, and stir the contents until they curdle. Spread a clean cloth over a sieve, pour the curdled milk on to it, and let the whey run through. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat until creamy ; mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of cold mashed potatoes, 2 table- spoonfuls of sultanas, 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, three well-beaten eggs, and breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Mash the curd with a wooden spoon until quite smooth, put it in with the above mixture, and well stir the whole. Butter a shallow tin and line it with plain tart-paste, pour in the mixture, ornament the top with some thin fillets of blanched almonds, strew coarsely-crushed loaf sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. The cake should be of a rich yellow colour when cooked, but not brown. It can be eaten either hot or cold. (6) Put about lqt. of milk in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of rennet, and stand it near the fire until it has curdled and set. Break the curds, and let them stand for half-an-hour longer, then turn into a colander and let them drain. When quite dry, pound the curds in a mortar, and mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table- spoonful of warmed butter. Beat the yolks of two eggs with £ wineglassful of brandy, then stir them into the curds; add 1 table-spoonful of well-washed currants, the grated peel Cheese Cakes—continued. of half a lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter some patty-pans, and line them with puff paste; trim the paste round the edges and notch it. Pill the patty- pans with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. In about twenty minutes’ time the Cakes will be cooked. Take them out of their tins, and arrange on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. They may be served either hot or cold. Cheese-Cake Pudding.—Take the yolks of eight eggs, jib. of moist sugar, and the same quantity of butter, warmed and well creamed together. Beat the eggs light, and well mix all the ingredients; season with nutmeg or essence of lemon, and add 1 table-spoonful of good brandy or rum. Bake in a flat tin dish lined with puff paste. Devonshire Cheese Cakes.—Peel and boil a large carrot till tender, then rub it through a fine hair sieve ; mix with the carrot 2 small table-spoonfuls of flour, ^lb. of well-washed and dried currants, fib. of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Well beat an egg with 1 table-spoonful of milk, and stir it into the above ingredients till well mixed: Butter some small patty-pans, line them with a good puff paste, and fill them with the mixture. Bake the Cheese Cakes in a quick oven, and when cooked take them out of the patty-pans. If to be served hot, arrange the Cakes on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper on a hot dish. Welsh Cheese Cakes.—Beat 2oz. of butter to a cream, and work it in with fib. of fine dried flour, in which has previously been mixed 2oz. of caster sugar. Beat three eggs, flavour them with a little grated lemon-peel, and mix with the flour, &c. Put the mixture into some patty-pans lined with short-crust, and bake in a quick oven. CHEMISE.—Fr. term for a mask, or envelope; frequently used in Continental cookery, as eti chemise. CHERRIES ( Hr. Cerises; Ger. Kirschen; Sp. Cerezas; Ital. Cirieghie).—The Cherry belongs to the plum tribe (Primus), but is classed as a separate genus (Cerasus), the stones or pits of the fruit being rounded instead of flattened. This distinction does not hold good through- out, for there are several kinds of Cherries with more or less flattened pits. The scientific name is supposed to have been derived from Cerasus, a city in Pontus near the Euxine Sea, whence the tree is said to have been imported into Italy by the Roman general Lucullus; but as Cherry-trees flourish in most temperate countries of the Northern Hemisphere, the probability is that they are also entitled to be classed as natives of Great Britain. In some parts of Herefordshire, a small black wild Cherry is occasionally to be met with, and that they are not more plentiful is due to the advances of cultivation. A wild Cherry is also met with in the mountains of Scotland, which, when cultivated, as it is in localities round about Aberdeen- shire, is known by the name of “ geans,” which is a probable corruption of the French word “ gingues.” As far as can be ascertained, the Romans were acquainted with eight varieties, but about forty sorts or more are known to British gardeners, and possibly there may be in all some 200 varieties cultivated at home and abroad. The French divide their Cherries into three sorts: Griottes, or tender-fleshed; Bigarreaus, or hard-fleshed; and Gingues, or small fruit, a classification which is partially adopted in this country. We have the White-heart or Bigarreau, Black-heart, and Morello or Morelia; the “hearts” are so named from their shape, and the Morello from their supposed resemblance in flavour to the morel fungus. Nicholson tells us in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” that the Morello, Duke, and Kentish varieties, are supposed to be derived from the wild, or dwarf Cherry, and the Geans, Hearts, and Bigarreaus, from the tall, wild Gean. The origin of the name “ Duke,” or “ May Duke,” is explained as being a corruption of Medoc, where they were first cultivated. The following is a list of the more important kinds in i cultivation.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 355 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. Bigarreaus.—Black Bohemian, Biittner’s Black Heart, Biittner’s Yellow, Downton, Elton, Florence, Frogmore Early, Gascoigne’s Heart or Hertfordshire Bleeding Heart, Governor Wood. Graffion or Ambree, Jaboulay, Late Black, Monstrous Heart, Napoleon, Tradescant’s Black Heart, Adams's Crown, Belle de Orleans, Black Eagle, Early Amber, Early Purple Guigne, Early Rivers, Hogg’s Red Gean, Late Purple Gean, Rose de Lyons or Early Lyons, Waterloo, and Werder’s Early Black. Dukes or May Dukes. -Archduke, Belle Magnifique, Biitt- ner’s October, Carnation, Duchesse de Pallnau, Imperatrice Eugenie, Late Duke, May Duke, Nouvelle Royale, Reine Hortense, Royal Duke, Transparent. Morello and Kentish Cherries.—Kentish or Flemish, Mor- ello, Ostheim, Weeping or Pendulous Morello. To cooks and confectioners tlie Cherry is a very useful fruit, and it enters into many combinations, to which it adds greatly by the delicacy of its flavour and the beauty of its appearance. Not only is it in season for a considerable time, commencing somewhere about the middle of summer with imported fruit, follow- ing closely with Kentish varieties, and terminating late in winter with the Yellow Spanish and Morello. When crystallised and preserved, Cherries are available all the year round, and where they are grown in profusion several tasty liqueurs are made from them. Thus, kirsclienwasser is a spirit distilled from the fermented pulp of a small black Cherry; a large black Cherry helps to make the famous Ratafia of Grenoble; and the maraschino of Zara is prepared from a particular species extensively cultivated for that purpose in Dalmatia. Noyeau also is sometimes flavoured with the kernels of a variety of Cherry. Sometimes it is necessary to stone the whole Cherries before using them. This can be done by pushing a smooth goose quill through the fruit from the stalk end in such a manner that the stone, or pit, is driven out before it. Cherry Juice.—In countries where Cherries are more plentiful than they are in this country, Germany being especially favoured in this way, it is usual to express the juice from the common black Cherry and use it for many purposes where rich colouring and flavour are desired. That prepared in the neighbourhood of Magdeburg is particularly good. This juice is a richly coloured, dark red liquid, glutinous, but perfectly bright and clear. The taste is pleasant, fruity, slightly acidulous and alcoholic. It is very inexpensive, and mixes well with syrups or alcohol without making the fluid turbid. Without giving full details of the many purposes to which German Cherry-juice can be applied, it will only be necessary to give a few instances. For colouring syrups and cordials, and any kind of confectionery requiring a crimson hue, it is supreme, and is therefore frequently employed to colour or increase the colouring of fruit syrups and imitation or poor class red wines, especially ports. It can also be used for making Cherry Brandy, Cherry Wine, Cherry Sauce, and a variety of delicious Cherry drinks. Black-Clierry Wine.—Put 101b. of sugar and 2oz. of citric acid crystals into a pan with 3galls. of water, and boil well, skimming as required. Have ready 2galls. of black or wild Cherries, mashed and put into a tub, pour over the boiling syrup and stir in lib. of ground malt, and let it get cold. Now add a little yeast to ferment it, and when the fermentation has ceased, skim well, and pour it into a cask over 4oz. each of bruised cinnamon and allspice, and loz. of cloves. Let the after-fermentation go off, then add loz. of dissolved and soaked gelatine to clarify it, bung up securely, and let it remain for nine or twelve months before bottling. The addition of the malt will prevent the wine going flat. Bottled Cherries.—Take as many bottles or jars as required, fill them with dry and whole Cherries, and put them in a large pan of cold water. Place the pan on the fire and boil until the fruit sinks and the skins crack. The bottles or jars must be well covered over. Then take them singly out of the water and pour into them boiling water up to the neck. Tie them down tightly with bladders and put in a cool dry place until wanted for use. Bottled Cherries must Cherries—continued. not be disturbed until wanted : if they are, the Cherries will ferment. Brandied Cherries.—The Cherrios must bo perfectly sound, and ought also to be large and sweet; either take the stalks off or else clip them within lin. of the fruit. Put into a preserving- pan lib. of sugar with lqt. of water, let it boil till it is quite clear, taking off any scum that may rise ; then scald the Cherries in this for about two-minutes-and-a-half, but not long enough to break the skins. Take them carefully out of this syrup and spread on plates to cool. Then make the syrup to cover the Cherries. To every breakfast-cupful of water, or the thin syrup in which the Cherries were scalded, add lib. of sugar, and boil till clear, taking off the scum as it rises; then take it off the stove and let it cool. When it is cold mix with it the same quantity of brandy. Put the Cherries into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the syrup over them, cork tightly, and put sealing-wax over the corks to keep them air-tight. Canadian Cherry Pie.—Butter a pie-dish and line it with paste; pick and stone the Cherries, and put them in the dish ; for each pint of Cherries, pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of molasses, and dust 1 table-spoonful of flour over them. Cover the pie with a flat of rich puff paste, trim it neatly round the edges, and moisten them and press together. Bake the pie for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, dust it over with white sifted sugar, and serve. Candied Cherries.—(1) Take the stalks from 21b. of ripe red Cherries—the larger the Cherries are the better. Stone them, getting the stone out at the stem end of the Cherry, breaking the fruit as little as possible. Put lib. of loaf sugar over the fire with a teacupful of water, and boil it to a syrup thick enough to pull as for candy, stirring it frequently ; move it to the side of the fire and stir it constantly till grains or crystals begin to form on the spoon, then drop in the Cherries a few at a time, let them remain in for two minutes, take them out, lay on a sieve set on a dish, drop a few more Cherries into the sugar, and so proceed till all have boiled two minutes in the syrup and are on the sieve. Then shake the sieve gently for a good while, turn the Cherries on to a large dish, and dry them in a sunny window. (2) Gather the Cherries before they are quite ripe, take the stalks from them, stone, and prick them. Boil sufficient clarified sugar to almost cover them, and pour it over. Cherryade.—Take 31b. of Cherries (Morello are the best), pound them in a mortar, and put into- a pan; add the juice of three lemons, the whites of five eggs, 1 pint of syrup, a little cochineal, and £gall. of water. Beat all well, place the pan on the fire, and boil. When done, strain it through a flannel bag into a pan, put the pan on the ice, and let it remain until wanted. This Cherryade should be used fresh. The kernels may be pounded in with the Cherries and will give a nice flavour to it. Cherry Bouchees.—Prepare a savoy-biscuit batter, fill a biscuit-forcer with it, and push it out in pieces about 2|in. Fig. 438. Cherry Bouchees. in length, arranging them in rows on a sheet of foolscap paper. When the sheet is full, sift some caster sugar over the biscuits, shaking off all that is superfluous. Lay the sheet of paper on a baking-tin, put in a moderate oven, and bake about fifteen minutes. When cooked, pass a wet cloth underneath the sheet of paper to facilitate the removal of the biscuits, which take off carefully without breaking them.356 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cherries—continued. Put some preserved Cherries on each biscuit, and glaze them over with some rose-pink transparent icing that has been flavoured with kirschenwasser. Set the bouchees on a baking-sheet, put it in a screen of moderate heat, and dry for about ten minutes. The bouchees are then ready for serving on an ornamental dish (see Pig. 438). Cherry Bounce.—(1) To 2jgalls. of Cherry-juice add lgall. of strong syrup. Into jgall. of proof spirit put 2 drachms of oil of bitter almonds, 1 drachm of oil of cloves, and the same of oil of cinnamon; let these dissolve in the spirit, then add the other ingredients and mix well together. This is a grand cordial if well made of good ingredients, and allowed to stand a considerable time. The essential oils have then a chance of blending and confirming the flavour of the com- bination. (2) Take } peck of Morello Cherries and -j- peck of Black- hearts. Stone the Morello Cherries and crack the stones. Put the cracked stones and all the Cherries into a large jar with ljlb. of powdered white sugar, and pour over them a gallon of double rectified whisky. Cork the jar tightly, and in six months it will be ready to pour off and bottle for use, but the longer Cherry bounce is allowed to stand in the jar before bottling, the better. Cherry Brandy. — (1) Francatelli was accustomed to make this cordial as follows : Take the fruit, cut off the stalks to about jin. in length, and put it into glass jars. When the jars are full, take equal proportions of cold 28deg. syrup and brandy and fill up the bottles; cork, tie down tightly with bladder, and put in a cool place to keep. . (2) Take 31b. of Morello Cherries; stone half, and prick the rest. Put them into a jar, adding the kernels of half the stones slightly bruised. Add lib. of white sugar, cover with brandy, and let it stand for a month. (3) Well wipe the Cherries—Morello are best—see that they have no blemishes, not even the slightest scratch or spot, and cut the stalks to half their length. To 3 pints of Cherries allow lqt. of good brandy or rectified spirit of wine, stack the Cherries in bottles, and pour the spirit over them. Keep in a warm place for the first fortnight or three weeks. Sometimes sugar and spices are added, but they are not necessary if the Cherries are ripe. (4) Take 161b. of black Cherries and mash them in a mortar with their stones; add 5galls. of 95 per cent, alcohol. Let the fruit macerate for fourteen days, and then add 101b. of caster sugar dissolved in 3|galls. of water. Filter for use. (5) Carefully pick over the desired amount of Cherries (the Morello variety being by far the best), and see that ripe, sound fruit only is used. Cut off the stalks with scissors to about .jin. from the fruit; do not pull them off or cut the fruit, or the shape and general appearance will be spoiled. Prick the Cherries here and there with a needle. Then stow them layer upon layer in wide-mouthed bottles up to the shoulder, sifting caster sugar over each layer, and drop in a clove as each quarter of the bottle is filled. Fill up the bottles with brandy, and cork down tightly. At the end of a month it will be well to take out the cork, pour off the brandy into a jug, and pour over the fruit j pint of strong syrup. Then return the brandy and cork down again. Some confectioners add a little cochineal colouring to the brandy, to give a brighter hue than could be obtained in the natural way. Gin is sometimes substituted for brandy, but the production is then of a very inferior quality. (6) Mix ingredients in the following proportions : German Cherry-juice, 15 fluid ounces ; pure rectified spirit, 20 fluid ounces; simple syrup, 5 fluid ounces, and a flavouring of bitter almonds. (7) Put into a tub sufficient black Cherries so that when mashed and strained there will be 5galls. of juice. Pour this into a cask and add 2galls. of strong spirits of wine. Put 261b. of sugar into a bowl, pour over 2galls. of boiling water, let the sugar dissolve, and add j pint of brandy- colouring and 1 drachm of oil of cloves mixed with j pint of spirits of wine ; pour this into the cask, and fine by adding first 2oz. of alum dissolved in boiling water, and afterwards loz. of salts of tartar also dissolved. Stir well, and it will soon be ready for bottling. (8) Take some perfectly sound, ripe Morello Cherries, wipe each one separately with a clean cloth, prick each in • Cherries—continued. several places with a fine needle, and cut off the stalks within lin. of the fruit. Put the fruit into quart glass jars or bottles, but only half fill each bottle. Crush some rock-candy quite fine, and blanch some bitter almonds; add to each bottle six of these blanched almonds and 3oz. of the crushed candy then fill up the bottles with the best brandy, cork well, and seal the corks. This will not be ready for use for a month at least. The Cherries may be served for dessert and the brandy as a liqueur. (9) Select large ripe Cherries, cut off part of their stalks, leaving about lin. of it adhering to the Cherry; pack them in jars with a few cloves and small pieces of stick cinnamon in each. Sweeten lqt. of pale brandy, judging the quantity of sugar to be used by the sweetness of the fruit. Pour the brandy over the Cherries, and tie a piece of bladder over each jar. Keep the jars for a fortnight in the sun or in a warm place; at the end of which time the Cherries will be about right for eating. (10) For this, acid, juicy Cherries, such as the Morello, should be selected, and care must be taken to use only quite ripe fruit. Cut off the stalks about jin. from the Cherries, prick the fruit, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles, in layers; sprinkle each layer with finely-crushed loaf sugar, or pour over a little syrup, and to each bottle add a few cloves. Fill up the bottles with brandy, cork down tightly, and let them stand for a month ; pour off the brandy, add about 11b. of sugar-candy to each bottle, pour back the brandy, cork up again, and use when required. (11) Take the stalks from lqt. of Cherries, put them in a jar, and add to them lib. of sugar and a dozen cloves; then pour over them lqt. of whisky. Cover the jar closely, and let it stand for four weeks in a cool place; it must be stirred every day, and covered closely again. After it has stood four weeks, strain it through fine muslin, bottle, and cork it well. (12) Take some large and perfectly ripe Cherries, cut half the stalk off, leaving about lin. to each. Put them into very cold water, let them remain in it for about half-an-hour, take out and lay on a sieve to drain. Allow to every lib. of fruit 4oz. of sugar, clarify it, boil it to large pearl, or to that degree of heat at which little raised balls form on the surface of the sugar (see Sugar-boiling) ; when it gets to that state, put the Cherries into this syrup, and let them boil for a minute or two, stirring them gently. Then take the pan from the fire, and when the syrup cools a little take the Cherries out very carefully with a skimmer, and put them into bottles. Let the syrup in the pan get almost cold, and mix with it 1 j pints of brandy to each lib. of fruit. Put into each bottle twelve cloves and -joz. of stick cinnamon tied in a muslin bag, and fill up with the mixed syrup and brandy. Cork the bottles well. Let them stand for two months; at the end of that time uncork the bottles and taste the Cherries, and if they are sufficiently flavoured with the spice take out the cinnamon and cloves. (13) Put 2qts. of syrup into a saucepan with lib. of Morello Cherries, scald them without cooking, put them into a jar with lqt. each of common rough gin and concentrated essence of Cherries, mix well, and the brandy is ready for immediate use. (14) Wholesale.—Mix 7jgalls. of Cherry-juice with lOgalls. of pure rectified spirit, 2jgalls. of syrup, and j drachm of oil of bitter almonds. For the rectified spirit, whisky that has been deodorised by filtering through charcoal is generally used. The whisky should contain at least 50 per cent, of alcohol. Cherry Bread.—Take about ljlb. of Cherries (Kentish preferred) and pound them in a mortar so as to break the stones. Put the pulp into a preserving-pan witli nearly 1 pint of claret or port, and Jib. of sugar. Allow this to boil upon the stove for fifteen minutes, then rub it through a sieve and pour into a souffle-case. Next, shape out a dozen pieces of crumb of bread into the shape of eggs, and fry to a light brown in clarified butter; drain well, and place them in rows in the puree of Cherries. Shake some fine sugar over the top, put the dish upon a baking-sheet in the oven, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; when done, drop the case on to the souffle-dish, and send to table. Cherry Bread Pudding1.—Take lqt. of milk, put it into a 3-pint jug, and stir into it £ saltspoonful of bicarbonate ofTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 357 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. soda. Beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of sugar, and stir them into the milk in the jug. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, trim them neatly, put a layer in the bottom of a pudding-dish, and pour in a little of the mixture of milk, soda, eggs, and sugar; strew over this a layer of stoned Cherries, then more bread-and-butter, then pour in more of the milk and eggs, then add a layer of Cherries, and so on till the dish is full; let the last layer be bread-and-butter, thickly buttered. Cover it with a dish turned upside down and let it soak for one hour, then set it in a pan of hot water in the oven, still keeping it covered, and bake it for an hour; uncover it and let the top ( brown. Serve hot with sugar. Cherry Cakes. — (1) Prepare lib. of tart-paste, cut into halves, and roll it out thin. Put small groups of preserved Cherries all over the paste, leaving a short space between each; brush all round them with beaten egg, then put the other half of the paste on the top, and press it gently round each group of Cherries. Cut out the cakes, prick them, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. Butter a baking-sheet, place the cakes on it a short distance from each other, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the cakes off the tin, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. They may be served cold if preferred See Pig. 439. (2) Well beat six eggs, mix with them Jib. of crumb of bread that has been soaked in milk, Jib. of sugar, 4oz. of butter that has been slightly warmed, 2oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Work the ingredients until well mixed, and add 1 Jib. of Cherries. Thickly butter the interior of a shallow tin, and put in the mixture; ornament it tastefully on the top with a few split almonds, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the cake out of the tin before it gets cold. (3) Butter a tin and line it with plain paste ; cover it with Cherries that have been freed from their stalks. Well beat two eggs, mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and sufficient milk to bring the whole to the consistency of thick cream. Well stir the mixture, pour it over the Cherries, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Cherry Caramel Tablets.—Boil Jib. of sugar in a teacupful of water, and just before it comes to the crack (see Sugar- boiling) stir in 8 drops of acetic acid and 1 table-spoonful of Cherry-juice. Boil up again until it comes to the crack, let it cool, and then turn it out on an oiled marble slab ; mark the surface of the caramel deeply with the back of a knife into lin. square tablets; when quite cold, they can be easily snapped asunder. Cherries en Chemise.—Cut off the stalks rather short from lib. or so of ripe Cherries, and dip them into white of egg beaten to a froth. Cover them over with caster sugar, shaking well so that there is none on them but what adheres, put them on a sieve in the dry-closet, and let them remain until wanted. Cherry Cordial. — (1) Extract the juice from ripe Morello Cherries by taking out the stones and pressing ; strain it through a cloth, sweeten to taste, and when perfectly clear boil it up. Put 1 teacupful of brandy in each bottle, and cork and seal tightly. This cordial will keep all the summer in a cool place. It is very nice and refreshing with iced water. (2) To 1 pint of Cherry-juice add lib. of caster sugar, and stir together until the sugar is dissolved ; then add 1 pint of good brandy, and in a week or ten days filter through filtering- paper. Cherries—continued. Cherry Cream Ice.—(1) Carefully remove all the stones from about 21b. of ripe Cherries, put them into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil to a pulp. Bub this through a fine sieve into a basin, mix in 8oz. of powdered loaf sugar, a little cochineal colouring, and lastly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream. When thoroughly incorporated, turn the mixture into the freezer, and put it into a mould packed in ice ; turn it out when set, and serve. (2) Take the stalks from Jib. of ripe red Cherries, put them into a mortar and pound them, stones and all. Then add to them the juice of one lemon, J pint of syrup, mix this together, and add and stir in by degrees 1 pint of cream. Strain all this through a sieve, put it in a freezer till thoroughly set, and serve in glasses. Cherries 'with Crohtons.—(1) Take Jib. of Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, place them in a sugar-boiler with a little sugar and 1 wineglassful of wine, and let this boil gently for a few minutes. Then with a skimmer take out the Cherries and put them in a basin ; take out a little of the liquid and add a little lemon-zest (grated peel) and 2 handfuls of powdered caster sugar. Boil this up quickly to reduce it to the required consistency, put in the Cherries, and let it bubble up once more only ; then pour them out into a deep dish. Cut eight or ten slices of household bread about Jin. in thickness, cut them into an oval shape with a biscuit-cutter, and with the point of a knife make an incision all round near the edge. Put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a nice colour on both sides; then drain and scoop out the inside contained by the cut ring, fill the hollow with 1 table-spoonful of almond paste, smooth the surface, dust over a little powdered sugar, and glaze the sugar with a red-hot shovel or salamander. Place the crusts on the top of the Cherries in the dish, and serve. (2) Turkish.—Take 21b. of fine raw Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, and put them into a preserving-pan with 1 Jib. of finely-powdered preserving sugar. Toss in the pan over a slow fire until the sugar is melted, then put on a quick fire for two minutes in order to boil the Cherries; when done, turn them out at once into a basin. Let them remain for two hours, pour the syrup back again into the pan, and reduce it to one-third its original bulk, when it should be rather thick; then pour it over the Cherries. Now take a loaf of household bread and cut off some slices about Jin. in thickness ; with a biscuit-cutter cut out some croutons of a round shape, put them in a saute-pan close together, and fry them in a little clarified butter; turn them over so as to do both sides, and when they are of a nice colour pour in some of the warm syrup from the Cherries to half their height. Put them on the fire again, and boil until all the syrup is absorbed in the bread. Put the Cherries on a dish and arrange the crusts round them. Cherry Crusts.—(1) Stone and cut off the stalks of about 21b. of Morello Cherries, put them in a saucepan with about a pint of boiling syrup, and boil till tender. Cut some slices off a tinned-loaf, shape them into hearts, crescents, stars, or rounds, toast them, lay them in a saucepan, pour the Cherries and syrup over, with a small quantity of water, making sufficient liquor with the syrup to cover them, and simmer at the side of the fire until the bread is soft. Put the slices of bread and Cherries in layers on a dish, dusting caster sugar between each layer. Serve hot or cold. (2) Cut off the stalks and stone about 21b. of Morello Cherries. Put lib. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, place it over the fire until boiling, then skim it, put in the Cherries, and stir them with a wooden spoon until they begin to get tender. Cut two stale French rolls, length- wise, into rather thin slices ; put a lump of butter in a frying- pan, and make it hot. Dip the slices of French rolls in yolks of eggs that have been beaten with a small quantity of milk, put them in the hot butter and fry until nicely browned on both sides. When done, drain the slices, lay them in a pie-dish, and pour the Cherries and syrup over them, adding a small quantity of water to the syrup if it is too thick. But the dish in a moderate oven, or over a charcoal fire, and leave it until the slices of roll have absorbed all the syrup. Then turn it over on to a hot dish, and serve. Cherry-and-Currant Syrup.—Take lib. of sugar, convert it into syrup of 32deg. (see Sugar-boiling), and put it into a pan_ with 1 pint of filtered Cherry-juice (made by poundingTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 358 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, ifec., referred to, see under their special heads. CKerries—cout inued. 21b. of Cherries and £lb. of red currants together). Mix these well, and then put it into bottles; cork, tie them down, and put into a pan of cold water; place the pan on the fire and boil gently for six minutes. Take them out, let them get cold, wax over the corks, and put the bottles in a cool place until the syrup is wanted. Cherry Custard.—Stone and cut the stalks off 21b. of ripe Cherries, put them into a preserving-pan with |lb. of loaf sugar, and place over a slow fire until nearly cooked. Drain the Cherries ; strain the syrup, and boil it till reduced to a thick consistency ; then put in a fourth-part of the Cherries, and continue boiling it until the mass foams. Boil a stick of cinnamon and a small quantity of mace in lqt. of milk. Well beat twelve eggs with a sufficient quantity of caster sugar, then turn them into a saucepan and stir them over the fire until thick without letting them boil; strain the milk into this, and stir all together for a few minutes at the side of the fire. Put the drained Cherries in a pie-dish, pour the custard over them, and bake for thirty minutes. When cooked, pour the remaining Cherries and the syrup over the custard, and serve. Cherry Flawn.—(1) Put 31b. of Cherries into a preserving- pan with 12oz. of sugar and a little water, and cook them until done. Strain the syrup into a saucepan, thicken it by reducing, put in a quarter of the Cherries, and reduce again until it falls in sheets from the spoon. Line a flawn-ring Fig. 440. Cherry Flawn. with puff paste, put in the Cherries that are not crystallised, and bake for forty-five minutes in a quick oven with a piece of buttered paper spread over the top. Remove the paper, damp the crust, and sprinkle sugar over ; glaze this in the oven or with a salamander, then put over the crystallised Cherries together with the syrup, and serve. See Fig. 440. (2) Choose some sour and not over-ripe Cherries, pull off the stalks, and take out the stones. Take a flawn-ring and line it with thin paste, cutting it off level at the rim. Sprinkle a little sifted sugar over the bottom and place in the Cherries, squeezing them close to one another, and then sprinkle a little more sugar on top. Put this in a slack oven and bake for thirty-five minutes. It should be served when cold. (3) German.—Put |lb. of flour on a table, make a hollow in the centre, and rub in -Jib. of fresh butter (quite cold), 6oz. of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and 1 pinch of salt. Thicken the paste quickly so as to make it stiff without having to work it too much, and put it on the ice to cool for twenty minutes. Next take about \ pint of small sour, but ripe, Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, and squeeze 1 handful of them in a cloth to a mash, to extract the juice. Take half of the kernels, pound them in a mortar, and put into a sugar-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of claret and the Cherry- juice. Take a flawn-ring, butter it well, place it on a baking- sheet with paper over it, make the paste into a round flat (but without using the rolling-pin), and line the flawn-ring with it. Trim the edges, pinch it on the top, then take away the circle and pinch the paste all round—that is, round the outer sides. Tie paper round the flawn so as to be a support to the paste, fill the centre with Cherries, and put in a moderate oven to bake. Now beat up in a stewpan the yolks of two eggs and one white, jib. of caster sugar, and 2 table- spoonfuls of sour cream. Mix well up for two minutes, add the infused juice of the Cherries, and put it on the fire to warm, stirring it well. When the flawn is nearly done, take it out of the oven, pour in at the top the juice of the Cherries, and put it back again in the oven. Let it remain for ten minutes longer, and then take it out and remove the paper. Place the flawn on a sheet of white paper, and Cherries—continued. ornament the sides with icing sugar. Sprinkle a little sugar over the top, and serve. Cherry Fool.—Remove the stalks and put 21b. of Cherries into a jar, with ^lb. of crushed loaf sugar; pour in 1 pint of water, cover the jar, place it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and boil until the Cherries are soft. Take the jar out of the saucepan, leave it until the following day, then pass the Cherries through a fine wire sieve. Crack the stones, put them into a.saucepan with any skins that may have been left in the sieve after the Cherries were rubbed through, put in a small stick of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of bruised cloves, and 1 pint of water. Boil the liquor for fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve over the fruit. Stir in with the fruit sufficient wine and water mixed in equal quantities to form a smooth weak syrup, and sweeten to taste with more sugar. Cut a small French roll into thin slices, and then into small squares; place these on a baking-dish, sift sugar over, and glaze under a salamander or in a brisk oven. Place the fruit on ice or in a cold place until quite cold, then put in the glazed pieces of bread, and serve. Cherry Fritters.—Select black Cherries with their stems on, and tie them together in small bunches. Prepare a batter with plenty of eggs, and sweeten it with a small quantity of sugar. Put the Cherries into a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them, dropping a small quantity of the batter all round them. AVhen the batter has set and nicely browned round the Cherries, -put them on a hot dish, strew caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over, and serve while very hot. Cherry Gateau.—Take out the stones of lib. of red Cherries, put them with half their kernels and stones into a jar, sprinkle in |lb. of sugar, pour in 1 teacupful of water, and cook in the bain-marie or saucepan of boiling water until the fruit is reduced to a pulp. Strain through a fine sieve. Place loz. of gelatine into a bowl with 1 teacupful of water, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and stir continually until dissolved. Pack a fancy mould in ice. Blanch six bitter almonds, dip them into the gelatine mixture or glaze, arrange them at the bottom of the mould, and decorate with two rings of angelica, likewise dipped in the mixture. Cook by stewing ^lb. of White-heart Cherries, taking care that they do not break, and arrange them in the same way in the mould. Now add the remainder of the gelatine to the red Cherry puree, stir over the fire until it is nearly set, pour it into the mould, and leave until quite set and firm. Turn the contents of the mould out on to a cold dish, and serve with whipped cream. Cherries Glazed with Caramel.—Take some either fresh or brandied Cherries, cut the stalks off rather short, and put the fruits one at a time in boiling sugar prepared as follows : Put lib. of caster sugar with 1 pint of water into a sugar- boiler, and when the sugar has dissolved place it over a quick fire, boil, and carefully skim it. It must be boiled to such a degree that if a stick or skewer be put into it and then suddenly plunged into cold water the sugar will come off easily, and if placed between the teeth will not stick to them (see Sugar-boiling). Let the Cherries drain well, and when cold they are ready to serve. Cherry Ice.—Put 21b. of ripe red Cherries, picked and stoned, into a small preserving-pan, bruise them a little, and set them over the fire with ^lb. of loaf sugar broken very small, and a little water. Boil them and then rub through a hair sieve. Crack the stones, pound the kernels, and squeeze over them the juice of two lemons. Add to the Cherries when rubbed through the sieve lib. of sugar boiled to first degree, is that when, if a drop of the boiled sugar be put on the thumb and touched with the forefinger, and when the thumb and forefinger separate again it draws to a fine thread, and in breaking leaves a drop both on finger and thumb (see Sugar- boiling). When the sugar is at this degree and the Cherries are added to it, strain the lemon-juice and kernels on to them. Mix all this thoroughly and put it into a freezer. Keep stirring it, to distribute the Cherries well through it, until it has set. Serve in glasses. Cherry Iced Compote.—Take 21b. of good Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, and boil the fruit in £ pint of syrup at 32deg. Let the syrup get cold, take out the Cherries,359 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. and put thorn on a strainer to drain; pass the syrup through a silk sieve into a freezing-pan, and then add 3 table-spoonfuls of kirschenwasser. When the syrup has frozen to icicles, Fig. 441. Cherry Iced Compote. put in the Cherries, and let the pan remain in the ice for fifteen minutes longer. Pour the Cherries into compote- glasses, and serve. See Fig. 441. Cherry Jack.—Put 1 wineglassful of Cherry cordial or shrub into a glass, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of lemon-honey and a very little brandy or rye whisky; fill up with ice, and drink through straws. Cherry Jam.— (1) Choose for this ripe (but not over-ripe) fruit. Make a small hole in each and remove the stone, breaking the Cherry as little as possible. To every lib. of fruit add fib. of preserving sugar. Put it into a preserving- pan, place it on a good fire, and boil, stirring continually from the first. Let it boil for forty-five minutes, then take out a little, and put it on a cold plate to test. If it jellies or sets, the jam is done, and must be put into jars at once. Remove the jars to a cool place and tie them down. The jam will not require to be skimmed while it is boiling, as all the scum will boil away. (2) Pick and stone 51b. of good Cherries, and when they are again weighed they should scale quite 41b. Put 21b. of preserving sugar and 1 pint of water into a preserving- ,pan and boil for two or three minutes; add the Cherries, stirring gently so as not to break them, boil again for eight minutes, then pour it all into a basin and let it stand for twenty-four hours, so that the Cherries will soak well; then remove them, put them on a sieve and let them drain. Now add lib. of sugar to the syrup, place the Cherries in it, and boil again for another eight minutes. When done, remove the pan, let the preserve get quite cold, put it into jars, and cover over the top with a thin round of paper dipped in brandy, and then with a larger round tied firmly round the jars or pots. See Jams. (3) Put 61b. of Cherries (picked and stoned) into a basin, bruise them a little, and let them stand till the juice runs from them. Put into a preserving-pan lib. of red-currant juice and lib. of loaf sugar. Place this over the fire, and sta- rt till the sugar is melted; when it boils, empty the basin of Cherries into it, and add 4jlb. of powdered white sugar. Let it boil fast for half-an-hour, skimming if necessary, and then take the pan from the fire ; let it cool a little, and put the jam into pots. When quite cold, lay on top of the jam in each pot a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the jars so as to exclude the air. Cherry Jam made -without Sugar. —Pick the stalks off a sufficient quantity of Cherries, wipe them with a cloth to free them of all dust, and stone them. Break the stones, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil for a few minutes. Strain the liquor from the stones through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with the fruit, and boil the whole until reduced to a thick jam, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon; a small quantity of powdered cloves and cinnamon may be added to the jam if the flavour is agreeable to taste. When sufficiently reduced— that is to say when the jam is boiled to a thick pulp—put it into jars ; leave it until cold, then cover it as for Cherry Jam, No. 2. This jam will keep for several months. Cherries—continued. Cherry Jelly.—(1) Remove the stalks and stones from 21b. of Cherries, put them into a basin, pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a sieve. Mash the Cherries with a wooden spoon, adding about 1. teacupful of red-currant jelly; then add the kernels, lastly the lemon- juice, and mix these well together. Boil and skim 1 pint of clarified sugar and isinglass, put the Cherries into a jelly-bag, pour this syrup over them, and run it through until quite clear. If not sufficiently sweet, add more sugar; if the con- trary, add more lemon-juice. Damp a mould, pack it in ice, fill it with the jelly, and turn it out when well set and firm. (2) Make a strong syrup (lib. of sugar to 1 pint of water), and skim it as it boils ; when all the sugar is properly dis- solved, throw in a quart of Cherries to the pint. When the Cherries are thoroughly cooked take the pan off the fire, and when the syrup is cold mix with it loz. of isinglass to the quart and the juice of three or four lemons. Strain through a jelly-bag, fill a mould or moulds, and stand on ice. (3) Soak 2oz. of isinglass in just sufficient cold water to cover it; pick 41b. of Cherries free of stalks and stone them (they should be ripe, juicy Cherries), mix with them ^lb. of currants picked free of stalks, put them into a preserving- pan over the fire, and stir and bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon till the juice comes freely from them; then strain it through a cloth, squeezing it well to get all the juice. Put the juice into the pan again, mix with it ljlb. of clarified sugar, add the soaked isinglass, put it over the fire, and stir till the isinglass is completely melted; as soon as a scum begins to form, take the jelly off and put it into pots. Note.—Tin moulds would make these jellies turn a dead blue colour. Cherry Jelly in Mould.—Melt joz. of gelatine in a little warm water and beat it in J pint of double cream to a froth; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and flavour with noyeau. Stone some preserved Cherries, put a little of the jelly into a mould, put in a layer of Cherries, and then jelly alternately with Cherries until it is full. Put the mould on ice until required, and then turn out the jelly on to a dish to serve. See Fig. 442. Cherry Liqueur.—Remove the stalks and stones from an equal quantity each of Morello Cherries and sweet black ones. Break the stones and put them with the fruit into a large bottle, also put in for every 21b. of fruit 41b. of loaf sugar, half a stick of cinnamon, about a teaspoonful of bruised cloves, and lqt. of brandy. Cork the bottle tightly, stand it in a warm place, and leave it for fourteen days. When ready, filter the liqueur until quite clear through a jelly-bag or a piece of flannel. Pour it into smaller bottles, cork them, and keep in a dry store cupboard. Cherry Marmalade.—(1) Remove the stalks and stones from the selected quantity of Cherries ; crush the stones, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil them until all the flavour is extracted. Put the fruit in a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until reduced to a pulp, stirring it occasionally with a wooden360 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. spoon, to prevent it from sticking to the bottom and burning. For every lib. of fruit, boil jib. of loaf sugar in the strained water in which the stones have been boiled until small transparent bubbles form on the top. Mix the clarified sugar with the fruit and continue stirring it over the fire until thick and smooth. Turn the marmalade into small jars or glasses, leave until cold, then tie them over, and keep for use in a dry store cupboard. (2) Take the stalks off the Cherries and remove the stones ; then weigh them, and allow to each lib. of Cherries ilb. of sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, and to each lib. of sugar add 1 breakfast-cupful of water; let this boil until a few drops of it cooled in cold water are crisp and slightly sticky. When the sugar is boiled to this state, put in the fruit and let it boil quickly, keeping it constantly stirred till the marmalade becomes thick and the Cherries are clear and almost transparent. Remove the pan from the stove and allow the marmalade to cool slightly ; put it into jars and cover them. (3) Boil 21b. of sugar with 2 wineglassfuls of water, skim it well until, on shaking the skimmer after dipping it in the sugar, the latter drops from it like icicles (see Sugar- boiling). Put in 41b. of picked and stoned Cherries, and boil them; when the marmalade flows readily, take it from the fire and put into pots for future use. (4) Remove the stalks and stones from the required quantity of Cherries, mash the fruit, put it into a sauce- pan, and boil quickly for a few minutes. Rub through a fine sieve, leaving nothing but the skins; put the puree into a saucepan and place it over the fire. When the original bulk is reduced to one-half, add an equal weight of sugar, boil to the thread (see Sugar-boiling), turn it into jars, and cover them over when cold. (5) Take 41b. of large red Cherries, thoroughly ripe, remove their stalks, and stone them. Put them into a preserving- pan, and stir them over a gentle fire till they are reduced to one-half of the original bulk. Clarify 81b. of loaf sugar and boil it to the degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped in cold water, then instantly dipped into the boiling sugar and immediately back again into cold water, the sugar will roll from the finger in a ball in the water, and will become rather hard as it cools (set Sugar-boiling). When the sugar has attained this degree of'heat, add the boiled Cherries to it, and keep stirring till the bottom of the pan can be seen ; it is then boiled enough. Take the pan from the fire, let the marmalade cool a little, and put it into pots. Lay over the marmalade in each pot a piece of white paper dipped in brandy and cover the pots air-tight. Cherry Marzipan.—Blanch 31b. of almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste with a little cold water. Boil in a preserving-pan 2jlb. of sugar to the degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped in cold water, then instantly into boiling sugar, and immediately back again into the water, the sugar will roll from the finger in a ball, but the ball will remain soft when cold (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is boiled to this degree, mix the almond paste with it. Take lib. of ripe red Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, bruise, and squeeze the juice out of them; add this juice to the paste in the pan and mix it well. Keep the pan on hot ashes, and stir and work up this paste constantly with a wooden spatula for two hours, taking very great care that none of the paste be allowed to stick to the pan. If on touching it then it does not stick to the finger, it is done enough; if so, push it all to one side of the pan. Clean the bottom and side that has been cleared of the mixture and dredge it well with flour, then put all the paste on the floured part and clean and flour the rest of the pan. Now take the pan by both handles and give it a sort of circular shake, or move it round and round till the paste all unites together. Lay it in paper, or, if required for immediate use, on a well-floured table. Cherry and Noyeau Cream Bonbons.—These are worthy of more than ordinary attention, having . been contrived by Francatelli when Confectioner to the Queen. Work 2oz. of soaked and strained gum arabie, j pint of noyeau, and some sugar, to an elastic paste. Then take 1 gill of Cherry-juice, the whites of two eggs, and the remainder of the 21b. of sugar (of which some was used to make the paste)-, and make an icing. With these two mixtures make the bonbons Cherries—continued. as follows : Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer having a jin. hole at the end, and squeeze it out on to a baking-sheet previously dusted with finely-powdered sugar. Taking the forcer with the left hand, have a small knife in the right, and cut off the paste as it comes out in pieces about the size of filberts. Then place the baking-sheet before the fire for ten minutes to dry their surfaces. With the tip of a fork, take each one separately and dip it into the icing, put it on a wire strainer, and place them when ready again in front of the fire for ten minutes, when they will be fit to be put in boxes with paper between the layers. Cherry Open Tart.—Take some open-tart moulds, and line them with puff paste, dusting a little finely-powdered sugar over it. Fill each one with stoned Cherries, put close together (but not on top of one another), place them in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When done, take them out, and sprinkle a little caster sugar over the top. Cherry Paste.—Remove the stalks from some good Cherries, and put them in a preserving-pan with a little water. Let it boil—stirring well—for a few minutes, then pass the fruit through a fine wire sieve, rubbing it with a spoon. Weigh this puree, take its equal weight of caster sugar, clarify the sugar, and boil it to the feather or sixth degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; then add the paste, beat it in well with a spoon, and boil again. This paste can be either put into moulds or spread upon tin plates, and placed in a warm stove to dry. Cherry-Paste Drops. -Take ljlb. of Cherries, remove the stalks, and pound them in a mortar with their stones. Boil the whole up once and then pass it through a sieve. This should make about lib. of pulp. Put the pulp into a pre- serving-pan with lib. of coarsely-sifted sugar and a few drops of essence of peach-kernels (see Flavourings). Put the pan on the fire and boil, stirring all the time, and when it has become of the required consistency put the mixture in a spouted saucepan or drop-bag, and drop pieces the size of a florin on a baking-sheet. Put the drops in a screen before the fire for an hour or so to get dry ; when they are dry, lift them with a knife from the baking-tin on which they were put, and pack them in boxes with paper between the layers. A few drops of cochineal will give them the required tint if the colour from the Cherries is not sufficient; it should be added before the pulp is removed from the pre- serving-pan. Cherry Pie.—(1) Remove the stones from the Cherries, and then scald the fruit in their own juice; sweeten liberally, and pour into a deep pie-dish lined with a rich paste. Dredge with flour, cover with a top crust of the same paste, ornament the edge, and bake. (2) Remove the stalks and stones from the Cherries. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a short-crust, then put in the fruit ; fill up the dish with molasses, dredge a small quantity of flour over, and cover with a flat of the same crust; trim it off round the edges with a sharp knife, moisten them with water and press together. Put the pie in a quick oven and bake it for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour; the crust of the pie should be very lightly coloured. When cooked, take it out of the oven, sift caster sugar over, and stand on another dish. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Boil jib. of rice, strain the water from it, and let it stew with some sugar till quite tender and sweet. Pick the stalks from lib. of ripe juicy Cherries. Take jib. of pow- dered white sugar and roll the Cherries in it. Lay about jib. of these sugared Cherries at the bottom of a pie-dish, over them put a quarter of the sweetened rice, then a fourth part of the Cherries, then rice, and so on till all the Cherries and rice are in the pie-dish, taking care to raise the pie high in the middle. Make some rich puff paste, cover the edge of the dish with a strip of it, and lay a cover of puff paste over all. Brush the pie-crust over with beaten white of egg, and sprinkle powdered white sugar on top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-quarter. When taken from the oven, lay some apricot marmalade over the crust, and sprinkle over a few crushed macaroons. Serve either hot or cold. Cherry Pie with Brown Bread.— Make about lib. of tartlet- paste, and with it line a hot ornamental pie-mould. Lay buttered paper over the bottom and sides of the paste inside, fillROASTED GOOSE. ROASTED GOOSE. WING OF CAPON. ROASTED CAPON OR PULLET. POULTRY-CARVING.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 361 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. the centre with flour, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Then make a biscuit-paste of brown bread, with a little cinnamon powder added. The paste in the mould being nearly done, take it out of the oven, remove the flour and paper, and fill up with the biscuit-paste put in layers, and over each a sprinkling of the Cherries, which must have been previously well drained. Keep a little of the biscuit-paste for later use. Put the mould in the oven and bake for three-quarters-of-an- hour. About a-quarter-of-an-hour before removing it from the oven, cover over its surface with the remainder of the biscuit- paste, smoothing with a knife or spatula, and sift over some caster sugar. Put it back in the oven to glaze the sugar, take off the mould, and serve. See Pig. 443. Cherry Pudding1.—(1) Put Jib. of butter into a warm basin and work it well with a spoon, adding, one at a time, the yolks of twelve eggs, and lastly Jib. of caster sugar. When it begins to froth, put in Jib. of brown breadcrumbs, a little cinnamon, and lastly the whites of seven or eight eggs well whisked. Then take a large and rather thick timbale-mould, butter it well, and on the bottom pour a layer of the mixture ; then put in a layer of preserved and well-drained Cherries, keeping them from the sides of the mould, and continue in this way until full. Cover the mould with a baking-sheet upon which are live embers, put it in the oven, and bake for twenty-five minutes. Then turn out on to a dish, cover the bottom with Cherry sauce, and serve. (2) Take the stalks off some ripe Cherries, and remove the stones without breaking the fruit more than necessary; as they are picked and stoned, put them into a breakfast-cup. When the cup is full of the Cherries, take lib. of flour, mix into it very thoroughly 1 dessert-spoonful of cream of tartar, and roll the Cherries in it. Then add and mix in two eggs, Jib. of sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter warmed till melted. Put the pudding into a pudding-mould and let it boil for three hours. Serve cream and sugar with it. Cherry Pulp for Ices.—For this half Morello and half Kentish Cherries should be used. Put them into a copper saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil quite soft. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve into a basin, add .Jib. of sifted loaf sugar to each pound of pulp, and stir well. Put into wide-mouthed bottles, cork and tie down, set the bottles in a deep saucepan with hay packed between them to prevent them from jarring or cracking, pour in water to half the height of the bottles, place the saucepan on the fire, and let them steam gently for fully fifteen minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the bottles cool, take them out, seal the corks, and set in a cool place until wanted. Cherry-and-Raspberry Jam.—To lib. of raspberries add Jib. of stoned Cherries, put them into a preserving-pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim and weigh, and to every pound add Jib. of preserving sugar. Put it on again to boil for an hour, stirring well, when it should hang or drape on the spoon. Then put the jam into pots, wipe some white paper over with the white of egg beaten to a froth, cover over the jars with the egged side next it, and when the paper is dry it will be quite air-tight. See Jams. Cherry Ratafia.—(1) Take 41b. of Morello Cherries and stone them ; pound the kernels in a mortar, and add them with the Cherries to Jgall. of brandy or proof spirit, putting in lastly 21b. of caster sugar. Let this remain for a fortnight to mace- rate, and then strain through a flannel jelly-bag. Cherries—continued. (2) Take 101b. of Cherries, remove the stalks from them, stone, and crush them. Put them into a jar and pour over lqt. of brandy, and cover the jar close. Crack the stones and save the kernels. When the Cherries have stood in the brandy six days, put them into a cloth and squeeze the juice through. Boil together 51b. of currants with 31b. of sugar, and put this also in a cloth ; squeeze out the juice and mix it with the Cherry-juice. Measure the quantity of juice, and add to every pint of it 1 pint of brandy. Put into a jar lib. of the kernels of the Cherry-stones pounded, a little mace, some clones and cinnamon, and Jib. of coriander-seeds, all well pounded, and pour over them the mixed juice and brandy. Cover the jar close, and let it stand for six weeks ; then strain it through a jelly-bag, bottle it, and cork it well. Cherry Sauce. — Take 2 largo handfuls of sour Cherries, remove the stalks and stones, pound them in a mortar with their kernels, and put them in a stewpan. Then add a glass of claret, a lump of sugar, a little lemon-zest and cinnamon, and boil until the Cherries are nicely done ; then strain them through a sieve, return to the pan, and thicken with 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour diluted with a little cold water. Boil it up again, and add G table-spoonfuls of preserved Cherries, previously dipped in warm water. Cherry Schmarn.—Pick the stalks off 21b. or 31b. of Cherries, put them in a stewpan with sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew gently until nearly cooked. Put Jib. of flour into a basin, and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a small quantity of either grated lemon- peel or nutmeg. Stir into the flour the beaten yolks of four eggs and sufficient milk or cream to form a stiff batter; strain the Cherries, put them in the batter, and when well mixed add the beaten whites of the four eggs. Put about 3oz. of butter into a stewpan, make it hot, then pour in the batter, cover with the lid, and set it over a brisk fire. When the bottom of the schmarn has caked and is lightly browned, tear it into small pieces with an iron fork, and then leave it to set and brown again. Put on a hot dish, dust caster sugar and powdered cinnamon over, and serve immediately. Cherry Soda-water Syrup.— Put lqt. of Cherry-juice and lqt. of water into a vessel with 7Jib. of crushed sugar and Joz. of citric acid, and boil; strain and bottle. It is then ready for use. Cherry Souffle.— (1) Put 4oz. of flour in a saucepan, pour in gradually 1J pints of milk, and stir it over the fire until thick and smooth. When cooked, take the mixture off the fire and continue stirring it until nearly cold. Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until. creamy; then mix in six well- beaten eggs, 4oz. of sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Mix all the ingredients together with 1 Jib. of black Cherries. Butter a souffle-mould, and dust in some grated breadcrumbs, shaking out the superfluous crumbs. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the souffle out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve it immediately. (2) Trim the crusts off two French rolls, put the crumb in a basin and soak in milk. Blanch 4oz. of almonds and pound them in a mortar. Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until creamy with Goz. of sugar ; then beat in gradually the yolks of six eggs. Mix all the above ingredients together with the grated peel of half a lemon and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the other ingredients. Pick off the stalks of about lib. of Cherries, and stir them into the mixture. Butter a souffle-mould, strew in grated breadcrumbs, then shake out all those that do not adhere to the butter, pour in' the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve at once. Cherry Souffle Pudding1.—Mix Jib. of flour with J pint of cold milk, and then stir into it 1 pint of scalding hot milk ; put it into a farina-kettle over the fire, stir it well, and let it boil for one minute ; then take it from the fire, stir in the yolks of seven eggs beaten light with 4Joz. of sugar and a flavouring of essence of ratafia, and let it stand till quite cold. Beat the whites of seven eggs to a stiff froth, and whisk it well and quickly into the custard. Butter a pudding- tin, cover the inside with crystallised Cherries, pour the362 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces, etc., referred to. see under their special heads. Cherries— continued. pudding in, allowing plenty of room for swelling, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. When done, dip it into cold water for an instant, take the lid off, let it stand for quite a minute, Fig. 444. Cherry Souffle Pudding. and turn it out on a hot dish (see Fig. 444). Serve wine or lemon sauce with it. Cherry Soup.—(1) Pick off the stalks of lib. of Cherries, put them into a saucepan with a few cloves and sufficient water to cover them, and boil till very soft. Pass the Cherries through a fine wire sieve, return them to the saucepan, and pour in lqt. -of water. Crack the stones, and put the kernels into the soup with a few more whole Cherries. Flavour and sweeten the soup to taste with wine and sugar, and boil it gently until the last added Cherries are tender, but not broken. When cooked, turn the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve with a dish of sponge biscuits or macaroons. (2) Pull the Cherries from their stalks, and boil them in water (l pint of water to 1 pint of Cherries), with a stick of cinnamon, and the peel and juice of half a lemon. Then add 1 teacupful of wine and sugar to taste, and serve poured over dice of bread fried in butter. A few Cherries may also be pounded small, boiled in water, and passed through a sieve. This soup may likewise be made with dried Cherries and pearl-barley boiled several hours in water, passed through a sieve, and then served as above. (3) Use fine ripe Cherries, remove the stalks, put the Cherries in a lined pan, with sufficient water to cover them, sweeten to taste, add a small quantity of vanilla, and stew them gently. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, and cut them into small croutons ; put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when melted put in the pieces of bread, and fry until nicely browned all over. Afterwards drain them, put in with the Cherries, and serve while hot. Cherry Syrup. — (1) Bruise a sufficient quantity of sour Cherries in a strong mortar, so as to break up the stones. Press out the juice, and set it aside to ferment in a large open crock, covered by a cloth, at a temperature of 75deg. to 80deg. Fahr., stirring occasionally. To every pint of the fruit juice add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and filter. Then to every pint of the fermented juice and brandy combined add lilb. of preserving sugar, and boil steadily until the sugar is thoroughly syruped; skim, and as it cools pour into clean bottles rinsed out with brandy. See Bottling. (2) Dissolve by heat 7lib. of best loaf sugar, crushed small in lqt. of water. Add before boiling lqt. of German Cherry-juice and Joz. of citric acid. Strain and bottle for use as a drink with soda-water. (3) Put ripe Cherries into a mortar, crush them with the pestle, and break the stones. Squeeze the fruit in a straining- cloth till all the juice is out of them ; add Jib. of sugar to each pint of juice; put the sugar and juice into a preserving- pan, and boil for ten or twelve minutes, taking off the scum as it rises. Let the syrup cool, then put it into bottles and cork it up. It makes a nice flavouring for pudding sauces. (4) Put the required quantity of Cherries into a mortar and pound them well, breaking the stones; squeeze out the juice, and set it aside to ferment for three days. For each fluid pound of juice, add loz. of spirit of wine ; mix well, set it aside for another day, and then filter. For each lib. of this add ljlb. of the best sugar, and bring to the boiling- point, taking care to remove it from the fire immediately it boils. Skim it, put it into bottles, and cork down. (5) Take some Cherries (the black sour ones are the Lest for this purpose), remove the stalks, and stone them ; squeeze Cherr ie s—con tinned. the juice from them,- put it into an earthen pan, and let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Then pour the juice gently into a preserving-pan. Add to the juice double its weight of powdered white sugar, and allow to each pound of sugar 1 drachm of cinnamon. Infuse the cinnamon in J pint of water, tie it in a muslin bag, and put it into the preserving- pan together with the water it has been infused in. Let all boil together for thirty minutes, taking off all scum as it rises. When done, take out the bag of cinnamon, and strain the syrup till it is clear. Let it get quite cold, and then bottle it. Cherry Tart.—(1) Make a paste as follows : Lay Jib. of butter in a bowl of very cold water, and work it for five minutes with the hands, touching it very quickly and lightly, so that it may be quite smooth and yet firm; then wrap it in a cloth dusted with flour, lay it on a plate, and place it in the re- frigerator, or in an equally cool place. Put lib. of flour into a bowl with 1 teaspoonful of salt, add to it the yolk of one egg, and sufficient very cold water to mix it to a medium soft paste; work quickly and very lightly, and then roll the paste out about as large as a dinner-plate; cut the butter into rather thick slices, lay them irregularly about on the paste, dust it with dry flour, and fold the paste in such a way as to enclose the butter. Boll the paste out two or three times very quickly and lightly, and then use it at once ; or, if it is to be kept any time, wrap it in a floured cloth, lay it on a plate, and set it in a refrigerator or a very cold place. Stem and stone plenty of Cherries. Use rather a deep earthen dish, line it down the sides with strips of pastry, or use an under-crust if preferred, being very careful not to press the cut edges of the pastry; heap the fruit hig-h in the dish, and sprinkle over sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Lay a top-crust lightly on the fruit, after slightly wetting the under-crust near the edge to make it adhere, still without crushing down or pressing the edges of the crust, because that would make it heavy and soddened. About Jin. within the edge of the upper-crust lay the forefinger, curved in such a way as to form a groove by slightly pressing it down ; cut four or five places diagonally across the groove so that the fruit-juice may boil out into the groove instead of escaping from the dish. Bemember to touch the crust always lightly and delicately, so that it may be tender and crisp. Brush the crust with beaten egg, and then bake in a rather hot oven until evenly browned. .Use it either hot or cold, and dusted with powdered sugar. Whipped cream is very good with this. (2) Line a tart-dish with good Italian paste. Take 21b. of Cherries of some acid variety, such as Morello, cut them in halves, and remove the stalks and stones. Spread the Cherries all over the tart, except round the edge reserved for the rim, and dust them with Jib. of caster sugar. With the rest of the paste form the rim of the tart and the little strips which cross each other over the fruit. Finish off by glazing- the whole of the paste with a paste-brush dipped in yolk of egg. Bake in a lively oven. (3) Procure 21b. of fine Cherries, pick off the stalks, stone them with the hands, and place in a basin with 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well. Have ready a lined pie-dish, fill it with the Cherries, arrange a strip of paste round the edge, moisten with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven for fifty minutes. Dust the tart over with powdered loaf sugar, melt this in the oven, spread over 2oz. or 3oz. of sweet jelly, and serve. Cherry Tartlets.—Line six scalloped tart-moulds with 11b. of puff paste, press down the bottom and sides to get the im- pression of the moulds, mask them with 3oz. of apple mar- malade equally distributed over this, put in lib. of stoned Cherries, dust them with powdered loaf sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sprinkle the edges with more powdered sugar, and glaze or melt it in the oven for two minutes; then take out the tartlets and let them get cool. Turn them out of the moulds, cover with a thin coating of apple jelly, and serve in a napkin folded on a dish. Cherry Vineg-ar.—For each 81b. of Cherries put in a sauce- pan 2qts. of vinegar, 41b. of loaf sugar, a stick of cin- namon, and about thirty cloves; boil these ingredients for ■ ten minutes. Pick the stalks off the Cherries, wipe them on a clean cloth, and put in a deep stone jar; pour the syrup over them and cover the jar with paper. On theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 363 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. following day, the syrup should be strained off the Cherries, reboiled, and poured, while warm, over them again. Repeat this process on the third day, then cover the jar with stout paper, tie it down securely, and keep the Cherries in a dry store cupboard for use. Cherry Water.—(1) Take 21b. of good Cherries, pick off the stalks, and put them into a basin. Then pour 3qts. of boiling- water over them, and let them steep for a couple of hours, the basin being covered over. Put the juice in a jelly-bag with some paper, and let it filter through. Then add to the juice lqt. of syrup at 38deg., stir well together, and pour the Cherry-water into jugs. (2) Put 1 wineglassful of Cherry-syrup into a tumbler, fill up with cold water, and sweeten to taste. Cherry-water Ice.— (1) Remove the stones from the Cherries and pound them in a mortar to extract the flavour. Then pass them with the fruit through a wire sieve into a freezing-- pan, and set it on the ice. A few drops of extract of almonds, if added to the kernels in the mortar, will bring out the flavour, and a little lemon-juice, if added to the fruit, will give them a sharper taste. (2) Procure lib. of sour Cherries, put them in a vessel, after picking off the stems, with Jib. of powdered sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three larg-e lemons. Mix well with the spatula for five minutes, then add lqt. of cold water, stirring the mixture for two minutes longer ; strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, pressing the Cherries down with a wooden spoon. Freeze, and serve the same as for other ices. Cherry Wine.—(1) To make 5 pints of this wine, take 151b. of I Cherries and 21b. of red currants. Bruise them together, mix with them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole of the Cherries, currants, and kernels, into a barrel, with Jib. of sugar to every 1 pint of juice. The barrel must be quite full. Cover the barrel with vine-leaves, and sand above them, and let it stand until it has done working, which will take about three weeks ; then stop it with a bung, and in two months’ time it may be bottled. It is not necessary to fortify this with brandy, though it is often done. (2) Mix 3qts. of German Cherry-juice with 1 pint of grape- sugar syrup, and 1 pint of simple syrup. The juice itself, contains 12J per cent, of alcohol, which is quite sufficient for the purpose of producing a sweet British wine. (3) Measure the Cherries and bruise them, adding to every gallon lqt. of boiling water. Let this stand for twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally ; then strain off the liquor, and put in a jar, adding 21b. of sugar to every lgall. Stop tightly, and let it stand for two or three months, when it will be fit for use without straining or boiling. Compote of Cherries.—(1) Cut off the stalks of lib. of Cherries to about fin. in length. Then put Jib. of caster sugar into a sugar-boiler, and add Jgall. of water. Place the boiler on the fire and boil for three minutes; then put in the Cherries, put the cover on the boiler, and boil for five minutes more. Take out the Cherries, put them on a strainer, and let them drain; then place them in a compote-dish, with the stalks sticking up. Reduce the syrup to 30deg., and when it is cool pour it over the Cherries and serve. (2) Select some fine large Cherries, wipe them over with a damp cloth, and cut the stalks to within Jin. of the fruit. Make some syrup in a sugar-boiler, put in the Cherries, let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for three minutes, then turn carefully out into a basin. Arrange the Cherries in circles, building them to a dome shape, with their stalks upright, in a compote-dish, pour a small quantity of noyeau- flavoured syrup over them, and serve when ready. (3) Pull off the stalks of 21b. of ripe Cherries, remove the stones with a quill without injuring the skins to any degree, put the fruits into a saucepan with 3 teacupfuls of syrup at 32deg., and cook them. Let them get cold, strain off the syrup through a fine sieve into a freezer, freeze it for a few minutes, add 3 table-spoonfuls of kirschenwasser, and let it remain until it becomes like icicles ; put in the Cherries, let them remain for fifteen minutes, turn the whole out on to a compote-dish, and serve as cold as possible. The May Duke Cherries are the- best for this dish. Dried Cherries.—(1) Make some very small holes in as many Cherries as required, so that the stones may be taken out Cherries—continued. without breaking the Cherries very much. Then put them into boiling syrup made with J pint of water to lib. of sugar. Let them remain in this only long enough to scald—say about ten minutes, for if in any longer they will break up. Then take the pan off the fire, pour the contents in a basin, cover over the basin, and let them stand for a day. Take out the Cherries, put the syrup back into the pan, and boil it up again, skimming- frequently, and pour over the Cherries. This must be repeated for three days, and on the fourth the Cherries must be taken out, put on a strainer, and drained of all their moisture. Then put them on wire sieves, and keep them over a g-entle heat for a few hours to dry, so that when touched they will not stick to the fingers. Let them get quite cold, then dust finely-powdered caster sugar over them, and put in layers with white paper between. Care must be taken that when drying the Cherries are not exposed to too much heat, or they will brown and become unsightly. (2) To every 51b. of stoned Cherries take lib. of crushed preserving sugar. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover it, and heat up to boiling-point; take out the fruit with a perforated spoon and dry it; put into the preserving-pan again, sprinkling sugar between each layer of Cherries. Let it stand a little, that the sugar may melt, then set the pan on the fire, and make the syrup scalding-hot as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice, drain the fruit from the syrup, and lay the Cherries singly to dry on dishes in the sun, or on the stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip them into a pan of cold water, draw out again instantly, and pour them on a fine, soft cloth; dry them, and set once more in the hot sun or on the stove. Keep the Cherries in a box in a dry place with white paper between the layers of Cherries. This way is best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. Essence of Cherries.—To prepare this, red Kentish Morello Cherries and wild or Black Gean Cherries must be used, taking them in the proportion of fib. of the former to fib. of the latter. Take out the stones, crack them, put them together with the fruit into a stone bottle, pour over lqt. of proof spirit, and let it remain for a month. Then draw off 1 pint of the liquor, filling up with more of the spirit; filter this pint, and pour it into a bottle that will hold 3 pints. Shake the bottle containing the Cherries and spirit, leave it for three days, strain through a flannel bag, then filter once or twice through paper, and mix it with the pint of liquor. Bottle and use as required. German Cold Cherry Dish.—Boil fresh, ripe Cherries in sugar and water until they fall to pieces. Add sufficient potato-flour or arrowroot to thicken them, and pour into a dish to cool Glazed Cherries.—Take some brandied Cherries and put them in a hot place to dry. Glaze them with icing made by boiling lib. of sugar to 40deg. and then bringing it back to 38deg. by the addition of kirschenwasser; let it cool, and beat it with a wooden spoon to a grain or paste (see Sugar- boiling). Italian Cherry Brandy.—Put lqt. of White-heart Cherries into a jar, pour over lqt. each of brandy (white) and common rough gin, and 2qts. of syrup. Let them remain for fully two weeks, and use as required. Pickled Cherries.—(1) Remove the stems from some Cherries, put a thick layer of them at the bottom of a stone jar, empty about a teacupful of sugar over them, and put in a few cloves and pieces of broken cinnamon. Fill the jar in this manner with layers of Cherries, sugar, and spice, and fill it up with the best cold vinegar. Tie a piece of stout paper securely over the jar, keep it in a warm temperature for a few days, and then put it in a dry store cupboard for use. (2) Get some firm, ripe, fresh, short-stemmed Cherries, and lay them in a stone jar with the stems on. Put into an enamelled pan enough vinegar to cover the Cherries, and sweeten it to taste; add 1 teaspoonful each of allspice, mace, cloves, and cinnamon, to lqt. of vinegar. Put on the fire until it is scalding hot, then pour over the Cherries, and let them stand until the next day, when the vinegar must be poured off them into the pan again, scalded as before, and poured once more on the Cherries. Repeat this for nine mornings, and the pickle will be ready for use.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 364 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cherries—continued. Preserved Cherries.—(1) The large, red kind of Cherries usually used for pies and the Morello Cherry make the best preserves. The fruit should be good and sound, and the larger the better. Take the stalks off the Cherries, and stone them, being careful not to bruise them. This done, weigh the Cherries, and allow their own weight of sugar; shake the sugar over the Cherries and among them, and let them stand all night, in order to allow the sugar to slightly harden the fruit. In the morning put it all into the pre- serving-pan, place on the stove, let it get hot gradually, and boil gently till the Cherries look clear, skimming off the scum as it rises. When the Cherries have become quite clear, remove the pan from the stove, cover it over, and let the preserve cool; when cold, put it into glass jars, place pieces of white paper dipped in brandy on top, and cover the jars tightly, so as to exclude the air. Keep in a cool, dark place. (2) Take a quantity of good Cherries, remove the stalks, wipe the fruit clean with a napkin, and dust a little sugar over them. Weigh them, and take an equal quantity of sugar, and to every 31b. put 1 pint of water. Put the sugar and water into a sugar-boiler, boil it, and clarify it with the whites of eggs; then pass it through a sieve, and boil it again to candy height (see Sugar-boiling). Let it remain for a day, and then put in the Cherries and boil for five minutes ; let these remain for another day, when take out the Cherries, strain the syrup, boil it again to the second degree, and pour it over the Cherries. Let it stand for another day, then take out the Cherries again, and boil the syrup to the third degree. With a small piece of wood dip each Cherry in separately, and put them on a strainer to drain. Leave them on the sieve, and put in a warm place to get dry. (3) Take 251b. of fine, sound, ripe White-heart Cherries, pick off the stems neatly, and should there be any unripe or spoilt fruits amongst them, throw them away, as they would be likely to ruin the rest. When ready there should be about 201b. of sound Cherries suitable for preserving. Have ready ten quart glass jars, divide the picked Cherries evenly into them, fill up with 30deg. syrup, cover them tightly and care- fully, and then arrange in a large saucepan with water up to their shoulders; boil for half-an-hour, and then cork or tie down tightly whilst still hot. (4) Cherries may be preserved cither with or without the kernels of the stones; but the stones give a richer flavour. To each pound of Cherries allow Jib. of sugar. Put the sugar in the preserving-pan, with J pint of water to 31b. of sugar, and stir it until dissolved. When boiling, put in the Cherries and cook for throe minutes; then put them in the jars, and cover in the usual way. (5) Wash, pick, and stone the Cherries, being careful to save the juice ; allow lib. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the juice and sugar to a thick syrup, then put in half the Cherries and stew till nearly done. Take them out with a perforated spoon and lay on dishes. Put in the other half, and treat them in the same way. Meantime, boil the syrup gently. When the Cherries are cool, put them again in the syrup, and boil for a short time ; then pour all into a large bowl and set to cool. When ready, put the jam in jars, and cover tightly. Preserved Pulp of Black Cherries.—Remove the stalks of some Cherries and place the fruit in a mortar. Pound them well, seeing that every stone is broken ; then take out the mass with a large spoon and put it into a preserving-pan. Place the pan over the fire for ten minutes, stirring all the time, and then with a vegetable-masher pass the fruit through a hair sieve (not very fine). When all the fruit is through, weigh it, and to every pound add Jib. of caster sugar. Mix thoroughly, fill the bottles, and tie them down to keep out the air. Reel-Cherry Ice.—Wash lqt. of sweet red or black Cherries, pound them thoroughly so as to break the stones, and strain the juice through a strainer into a freezer. Boil the Cherry- pulp with some of the sugar and water, to extract the flavour from the kernels, and rub that also through the strainer ; add the other pint of water and balance of the sugar to fib., and freeze. Use no white of eggs in this ice, as the colour is not good unless frozen natural. This makes a good ice for the third colour in a Neapolitan. Cherries—continued. Stewed Cherries.—Pick'out the largest and best from 41b. of Morello Cherries ; bruise the smaller fruit, press them well to extract all the juice, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan ; put in l|lb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and place it over the fire to boil. Put the large Cherries into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, leave these in the liquor until partly cold, then take them out, being careful not to bruise them. Put lqt. of the liquor in which the Cherries were boiled into a glass bowl, sweeten to taste with the Cherry syrup, previously prepared as described, and flavour with a few drops of essence of rose-water, orange-flower water, or essence of almonds. Put the larger Cherries in the liquor with a few lumps of ice, and serve. A bottle of champagne added to this makes a royal drink. White-Cherry Sherbert.—Remove the stones from 4 break- fast-cupfuls of ripe white Cherries, put them into a mortar, pound well so as to break the stones, and strain the juice into a freezer. Put the pulp into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil for a few minutes to extract the flavour from the kernels ; rub the whole through a sieve into another saucepan, and add 1 breakfast- cupful each of sugar and water. Boil for a minute or two, let the mixture cool, pour it into the freezer with the juice, add the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth, and the sherbert is then ready for use. A few whole Cherries that have been cooked in syrup may be added to the mixture while in the freezer. Wild-Cherry Syrup. — Put 5oz. of coarsely-powdered wild Cherry bark into a basin, moisten with water, and let it stand for a day with a tightly-fitting cover on the basin. Put it into a percolator, pour over about 1 pint of water, and after it has run through mix in ljlb. of sugar. CHERVIL.—Amongst the sweet herbs used in the kitchen there are few, if any, more deserving of respect than Chervil. Three varieties are known to us, all of which may advantageously find a place in the kitchen garden. The common or garden Chervil (Anthriscus cerefoliuni) is a hardy annual, grown for its leaves, which impart a flavour of combined fennel and parsley, and enter nicely into the preparation of salads. Curled Chervil is a variety of the common Chervil; but the bulbous-rooted Chervil (Chcerophyllum bulbosum) differs in that it is a biennial, and flourishes best in Southern Europe. The roots (see Fig. 445) are about the size of Early Horn carrots, and are sometimes cooked and eaten as a vegetable, in spite of the fact that in some old-fashioned cookery books the roots are pronounced poisonous. As green Chervil is only procurable during a part of the year, the leaves should be gathered and dried as described under Herbs. CHESTNUTS—Here we have another instance of the ingenuity exercised in the corruption of a simple word, possibly with a view to its greater simplification. The technical name for the Chestnut-tree is Castanea, which requires no great alteration in pronunciation to produce “ Chestnut ”; and although the word in its purity has been accepted in most Continental languages, the Germans and French have not failed in a slighter degree to follow our lead. The nuts are produced in prickly shells (see Fig. 446). There are several kinds known to us, but those grown in England are admittedly inferior to those of Spain andTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 365 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnuts—continued. Italy. In France the better kinds are known as “marrons,” and the Continental cook prefers the best in the many flavoursome dishes to which they are adapted. Candied, Fig. 446. Chestnuts in Shells. and boil it to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), that is, when raised on the skimmer, and blown through, it will burst into bubbles. On the following day prepare some more syrup as before, boil it until when a little of it is dropped into cold water it will harden, and can be made into a ball; drain the Chestnuts from the first syrup, dip them carefully one by one into the fresh syrup, and put them on a wire sieve in a warm place to dry. Chestnut Auflauf.—(1) Put l;|lb. of Chestnuts denuded of their outside skin into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite soft. Take off the inner skin, and pound the nut^in a mortar to a pulp, adding 2oz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs in a basin with 11b. of caster sugar, adding gradually the whites of the eggs whipped to a froth and next the Chestnut mixture ; put all into a well-buttered mould, bake .in a moderate oven, and serve. (2) Boil lib. of sweet Chestnuts till they are quite soft; then skin them and witli the back of a spoon rub them through a sieve. Have ready the whites of four or five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, together with lib of loaf sugar rubbed Fig. 447. Chestnut Auflaup. and as a stuffing or sauce for boiled turkey, appear to be the chief culinary uses to which they are applied in this country. Boiled Chestnuts.—Well wash 21b. or 31b. of Chestnuts, cut through the stem end of the shells with two cuts, crossing each other, so that the shells can be easily stripped off, tie the nuts in a napkin, and boil them tender in boiling salted water. Take them up, turn them into a fresh napkin laid in a salad-bowl, and serve hot with fresh butter and salt. Bordeaux wine should accompany them. Boiled Chestnuts served as a Vegetable.—Peel off the outside skin of the Chestnuts and steep them in boiling water until the inner skin can be easily removed, throwing them as they are peeled into a bowl of cold water. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in f2 pint (or 1 pint, according to the quantity of Chestnuts) of clear broth, and continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Season the sauce with salt, put in the Chestnuts, and keep them simmering at the side of the fire until soft. Served in this way they make a good vegetable for roasted meats or poultry, especially turkey. Candied Chestnuts.—Peel off the outer skin of some large Chestnuts, and boil them until the inner skin comes off when rubbed ; then put them in another pan and boil till tender, but not too much done. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a basin of warm water and let the Chestnuts remain in this until cold. Boil 61b. of loaf sugar in a sugar-boiler with lqt. of water, and keep stirring the sugar in the boiler over the fire, each time it rises adding a little cold water until 1 pint of water has been used up, and the sugar will no longer rise. Remove the dark scum from the top. Dip a cloth in water, squeeze it, and strain the syrup through. Clean out the boiler that the syrup was in, turn the syrup back again, and boil it until it comes to the thread (see Sugar-boiling). Dry the Chestnuts and pour the hot syrup over them. The next day boil all together for five minutes, turn them out, and let them be for another day. Strain off the syrup on the third day, on the yellow rind of a lemon and pounded in a mortar. Pile up the mashed Chestnuts while still hot on a hot dish, quickly spread the frothed egg over them, and serve at once. See Pig. 447. Chestnut Biscuits.—Take off all the skin from about three dozen large Chestnuts, which should weigh about Goz., put them into a mortar with 2oz. of butter, and pound to a pulp. Put 4oz. of flour on a board, make a bay, and work in 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter and 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar; then add the Chestnut pulp and work it well in with the other ingredients, so as to form a stiff paste. An egg may be added should the paste be too stiff. Boll the paste out, cut it into quarters, roll them all out again, but keeping them of uniform thickness, cut off pieces about the size of a walnut, roll them out until they are about 3|in. in length, put them on a well-buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with egg, put them into a slack oven, and bake until they are of a light colour. Take them out, let them remain in the hot closet until they become quite crisp, and they are then ready for use. Chestnut Bonbons.—Peel the outer skin off forty Chestnuts, put them in a 2qt. stewpan with 3 pints of water, and stand them on the fire until hot; then take the Chestnuts out and peel off the second skin. When they are quite clean, put them in a large copper boiler, so that all the Chestnuts may lay flat at the bottom, cover them with syrup at 16deg., stand the boiler on the fire, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain the Chestnuts, strain the syrup, and reduce it to 30deg. Put the Chestnuts back in the reduced syrup; then press them through a hair sieve. Shape this puree into Chestnuts, stick a wooden splint in each, and put them by until they are dry. Glaze them with chocolate icing, and dry in the hot closet. Chestnut Cakes. — (1) Put a hundred or so of Chestnuts on a fine gridiron over a clear fire, and cook them until the skins will easily come off. Skin them, put them into aTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 366 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see tinder their special heads: Chestnuts—continued. mortar with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter and a little well-whipped cream, and pound well; then rub the mass through a fine sieve, taking care that the puree is not too wet. When all has been rubbed through, put it into a basin and mix in half its weight in sifted crushed loaf sugar, very slightly flavoured with vanilla. Form the mixture into small cakes, putting them on a well-buttered baking-sheet, make a slight incision on the top of each, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake them to a good colour in a hot oven. When done, take them off the baking-sheet, and serve. (2) Boil lib. of Chestnuts until soft, peel them, removing both skins, put them in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth. Mix with this mass 4oz. of sugar, 4oz. of flour, and four well-beaten eggs, working the mixture into a smooth paste; put this on a floured paste-board, roll it out rather thin, and cut it into a variety of small fancy shapes. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a slow oven. When the cakes are cooked, leave them until cold before packing them in biscuit-tins. (3) Put lib. of roasted Chestnuts into a mortar and pound them to a pulp, adding gradually the yolks of four eggs. Sift 12oz. of flour on to a board, make a bay, and work in 6oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar, 12oz. of butter, two eggs, the Chestnut pulp, and Joz. of salt. Form this into a cake about 6in. in diameter, put it on a well-buttered baking-sheet, surrounding' it with paper, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half in a very moderate oven. Chestnut Cream.—(1) Peel the dark skins off twenty Chestnuts, parboil them, and rub the light skins off; then pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a sieve. Dilute lloz. of gelatine in 1 pint of milk, blanch and bruise six sweet almonds, and add, with the thin rind of half a lemon and a little sugar; put these in a stewpan, and when the milk comes to the boil move to one side until it is cool; then strain it, and mix with the Chestnut purde. When it is worked smooth add 1 wine- glassful of dry curatjoa and 5 pint of whipped cream, pour it into a mould, and stand it on ice. Whip some more cream and sugar to a froth, and when the Chestnut cream is set, turn it out, and put the whipped cream round it. (2) Boast two dozen large Chestnuts, peel and skin them, and pound in a mortar with a very little milk, using only just sufficient to moisten the Chestnuts to a paste. Beat loz. of butter to a cream with Jib. of powdered white sugar, and mix the yolks of two eggs with the beaten butter ; add to this by degrees 1 pint of hot milk, and mix all this gradually into the Chestnut paste. Boil all together for ten or fifteen minutes, strain, and let it stand on ice till cold. Chestnut Cream Ice.—(1) Put in a saucepan 12oz. of caster sugar, 6oz. of Chestnut-flour, 1 stick of chopped vanilla, If pints of single cream, and the yolks of eight eggs ; beat all thoroughly together, and stir it over the fire until thick; then strain it, rub it through a coarse hair sieve, freeze it, add 1 pint of whipped cream, and freeze the ice in a mould. (2) Put into a mortar lib. of skinned and blanched Chestnuts, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding- a little cream and sugar. Turn this into a saucepan, add 2qts. of cream, twelve eggs, and 1 dessert-spoonful of extract of vanilla. Set the saucepan on the fire, and bring the contents to the boil, stirring constantly; then strain it at once through a fine sieve into an earthenware pan, let it cool, put it into the freezer to freeze, and it is then ready for use. Chestnut Croquettes.—Put four or five dozen Chestnuts in front of a clear fire and roast them; then take off the shells and husks, and cut off all the outside coloured part, using only the white. Put half of them, including all the pieces, into a mortar, and pound them well with loz. of butter ; then rub the mass through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and mix in 1 teacupful of cream, 2oz. of butter, loz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and a little salt. Set the saucepan in the bain- | marie, stir in the yolks of five or six eggs, remove the saucepan, •) and let the mixture set. Form it into small balls with a whole Chestnut dipped in cream and placed in the centre, dip each ball into egg, then breadcrumb-and-egg again, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. When done and of a light golden colour, take them out, drain them, put on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with caster sugar sprinkled over. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Custard.—Take 31b. of well-roasted Chestnuts, peel and skin them, and cut off any parts that are coloured by the fire. Put them into a mortar and pound to a smooth paste, together with lib. of blitter; then add the yolks of twelve eggs well beaten with Jib. of powdered white sugar and a small quantity of salt; mix in by degrees 1 pint of whipped cream, and, lastly, the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth; this froth must be added very gradually and stirred in very gently. When all is mixed, put the custard into a saucepan, place it over a slow fire, and stir till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Chestnut Garnish (Chipolata).—Take twenty pieces of carrot and the same of turnip, “turn” into cork shapes, throw them into boiling water to blanch, take out, drain, and put them into some good stock, adding a pinch of sugar. Then take twenty Chestnuts, cut the outside skin, roast them white, and take off the peel. “ Turn ” twenty mushrooms. Take some Chipolata sausages and boil them, and when they are quite done take off the skin; then put all (Chestnuts, carrots, turnips, &c.) into a stewpan, cover over with some reduced Spanish sauce, and put into a cool place until wanted for use. Chestnuts Glaces with Caramel.— Pick out lqt. of Chest- nuts, slit the skins with a knife, put them in a frying-pan on a moderate fire, and roast them, but do not let them get brown; then peel off the skins. When they are quite cold, stick a wooden splint or peg in each Chestnut (see Fig. 448). Boil' lib. of loaf sugar in a pint of water, and dip each Chestnut into it. Try the sugar by dipping a skewer first in the sugar and then in cold water; if it comes off easily it will not stick to the teeth. Put some brown sugar in a broad, flat basin, and stick the ends of the skewers in it, Fig. 449. Chestnuts Glaces with Caramel. the Chestnuts uppermost, to drain (see Fig. 449); and when they are cold, arrange them in a compote-dish. Chestnuts Glaces with Sugar.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, not more than it will absorb, and boil it to the crack. Boil the requi- site quantity of Chestnuts until soft, and then peel, taking care not to break them. Take them up one at a time on the point of an iron skewer; dip them first into the syrup, and then, quickly, into cold water. Slip the Chestnuts as they are done off the skewer on to a wire-sieve, and dry them in a warm place. Chestnut Mousse.—Mix with 1-lb. of Chestnut puree about 6oz. of sugar flavoured with vanilla, beat it well with a spoon until it is quite smooth, and then add 3 wineglassfuls of whipped cream sweetened. Pour the preparation in a dome- shaped mould .previously embedded in salted ice, cover the mould, solder its joins with flour-and-water paste, and keep it in the ice for one hour. To serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn the Mousse out on a folded napkin.367 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iSec., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Paste.—Boil some Chestnuts in water till soft. Peel, skin, and rub them through a sieve. Then pound them, and to each fib. of pounded Chestnuts add fib. of marmalade (orange, cherry, or any other kind that may he preferred), and lib. of sugar. When weighed, boil the requisite quantity of sugar to the feather, that is, the degree of heat at which if a skimmerful of sugar be taken up and shaken the sugar will emit large sparks, which will adhere together on rising (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is at this degree, mix it well with the pounded Chestnuts and marmalade, put it into moulds, and bake. Chestnut Pudding\-^(1) Boil and peel fifty fine Chest- nuts, and when thoroughly cooked pound or crush them finely; add fib. of pounded sugar, the minced rind of half a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower or rose- water, a breakfast-cupful each of breadcrumbs and sweet biscuit in crumbs, and a teacupful of good cream ; then stir in with half-a-dozen eggs, well beaten up, yolks and whites together. Put the whole into a buttered mould (or this quantity may be divided between two), and bake in a steady oven. On turning the pudding out of the mould, dust it with sugar, and set it for an instant under a glowing salamander. (2) Mix in a stewpan lib. of Chestnut puree, a little sugar, three eggs, ilb. of currants, washed and dried, fib. of Smyrna raisins, a little salt, and a wineglassful of rum. Line a dome- shaped mould with pudding-paste, pour the preparation in, and cover it with paste ; tie the mould up in a cloth, put it • into boiling water, and let it boil one-hour-and-a-half. When done, turn the pudding out on a dish, and mash it with apricot sauce flavoured with rum. (3) Take about forty Chestnuts, remove the brown shell, boil and peel them, and rub through a sieve ; put this puree into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream, 4oz. of butter, 6oz. of caster sugar, and a little salt. Stir this mixture upon the stove until it begins to thicken (stir it well so that it does not burn), and add the yolks of eight and the whipped whites of six eggs ; then pour it into a mould and steam for an-hour-and-three- quarters. When done, turn it out upon the dish it is to be served upon, pour some diluted puree of apricots over it, and serve. (4) Boil fib. of Chestnuts till soft, peel oft’ both skins, put them into a mortar with four peeled bitter almonds, and pound until smooth. Warm fib. of butter, beat it well with 3oz. of caster sugar, stir in gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, and the pounded Chestnuts and almonds. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff snowy froth, and stir in lightly with the mixture. Thickly butter a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and steam it for three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Boil 21b. of Chestnuts until soft, peel off both skins, and pound in a mortar. Put a stick of vanilla into a saucepan with f pint of milk, and boil it for a few minutes until the milk is nicely flavoured; then take out the vanilla and stir in the Chestnuts, with 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar. Continue stirring the Chestnuts, and boil them until thick and almost dry ; then pile them in the centre of a hot dish garnished with stewed fruit, and serve. (6) Make a small slit in the outer peel of lflb. of Chestnuts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them until soft; then peel off both the outer and inner skin, and pound them in a mortar. Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, beat it well, and mix in 4oz. of caster sugar and the yolks of six eggs ; mix this with the pounded Chestnuts, and pour in ^ pint of milk. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the pudding, and flavour with essence of vanilla. Butter a pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet white sauce. (7) Put three dozen Chestnuts in a saucepan with some cold water and boil them until tender; then drain, remove their shells and inner skins, and pound the Chestnuts in a mortar. Slightly warm 6oz. of hutter and beat it until creamy with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix it with the Chest- nuts. Beat six eggs with three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of milk, and mix with the other ingredients. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, ornament the sides and bottom with candied cherries and small pieces of. candied peel, pour the Chestnuts—continued. mixture carefully into the basin, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the pudding in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an-hour-and-a- half. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Chestnut Pudding with Fruits. - Put a cheese-mould in salt and ice pounded together, and keep it covered. Dissolve six leaves of French gelatine and 11b. of sugar in a breakfast- cupful of water, and mix it with lib. of Chestnut puree; thicken this preparation, stirring it on ice, and add to it a mixture of preserved fruit, together with some sultana raisins and*"a few table-spoonfuls of maraschino. Put this into the mould which has been kept in the ice, shut it up, lute the junctures with common paste, and cover the mould with ice. In three-quarters-of-an-hour dip the mould in tepid water, and then turn the pudding out on to a cold dish. Chestnut Puree. — (1) Peel the brown skin off some large Chestnuts, and immerse them in boiling water until the under- skin can be easily removed ; then put them in a saucepan with some chicken consomme, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When they are done, add half the quantity of Spanish sauce, reduce, and press through a sieve, and finish the puree by adding 1 table-spoonful each of butter and meat glaze. (2) Take about forty Chestnuts, remove their husks, boil them, and then rub off the skins; put the Chestnuts into a stewpan with 1 pint of good stock, and simmer gently until done; then pound them in a mortar, add a little caster sugar, grated nutmeg, and \ pint of cream ; reduce this, and rub it through a hair sieve. When required for use, make it hot, and just before using stir up in it a pat of fresh butter. This puree is generally used for cutlets, braised turkeys, &c. Chestnut Puree with Cream.—Peel the outer skin off fifty Chestnuts, put them in boiling water for a few minutes so as to loose the under-skins, and rub these off in a cloth. Put the Chestnuts in a stewpan, moisten them with a little water, and add a handful of caster sugar and half a stick of vanilla. When the Chestnuts are done, dry them, and pass them through a sieve. Put this puree in a stewpan with half its weight of sugar. Fig. 450. Chestnut Puree with Cream. and keep it over a slow fire, stirring it. When it is firm and dry, pass it through a coarse wire sieve. Take the vermicelli up with a spoon, and form it in a circle on a dish. Twist a piece of paper in the shape of a funnel, fill it with some of the Chestnut puree, and squeeze it out in strings on to the circle, so as to complete the border shown by Fig. 450 ; sweeten, flavour with vanilla, add some whipped cream, and put it in the middle of the circle. Chestnut Puree Soup.'—Peel off the dark skin of some Chest- nuts, put them in boiling water for a few minutes, remove the under-skin, put them in a saucepan, just cover with a little broth, and let them boil on a moderate fire until they are tender; then strain and pound them. Pass 3 pints of warm broth through a sieve into a stewpan, put the Chestnut puree into it, and stir ; when it bubbles, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer three-quarters-of-an-hour. In the mean- time peel and blanch some carrots and turnips, and cut them up into little pieces the size of a pea. Skim the fat off the soup, add a saltspoonful of sugar, put in the carrots and turnips, and keep the liquid simmering', skimming it often ; in a quarter-of- an-hour add some moderate-sized heads of white asparagus, blanched, cut in lengths of two-thirds of an inch, and boiled five minutes. When ready, serve the soup in a tureen.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 368 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Rout Cakes.—Prepare the paste as directed for Compote of Chestnut Paste, using Jib. of Chestnut-flour instead of roasted Chestnuts. Mix the Chestnut-flour with pint of hot water, and hold it oyer the fire until thoroughly mixed; then pass it through a wire sieve, make into a paste, roll out, and cut with biscuit-cutters into various shapes. Chestnut Salad.—Make a slight incision in the outer skin of thirty Chestnuts, put them in a saucepan of hot water, and boil for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the Chestnuts, plunge them into cold water, and then peel off both skins. Cut the Chestnuts into quarters, and dust some pepper and salt over them. Peel four sour cooking apples, core them, and cut them in pieces of a similar size to the nuts. Cut some of the dark meat off a cold roasted turkey, into pieces of the same size. Wash some lettuces, pull the leaves apart, and arrange them in a salad bowl; put in tastefully the above ingredients, sprinkle over them about 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped mixed pickles, pour a plain dressing over the salad, and serve. Chestnut Sauce.—(1) Boil 1 pint of peeled Chestnuts in water for about three minutes, plunge them into cold water, and rub off the dark skins with a cloth; then put them on to cook in lqt. of stock. Boil gently until they will mash readily (say about an hour), and mash as fine as possible. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan, and cook until a dark brown; then stir into the sauce, and cook two minutes. Add, as seasoning, 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, and rub all through a sieve. This sauce is for roast turkey. When to be served with boiled turkey, use only 1J pints of stock; rub the butter and flour together, and stir into the boiling mixture ; rub through the sieve as before, add J pint of cream to the sauce, return to the fire, boil up once, and serve. The Chestnuts used should be very large and ripe. (2) Peel and blanch Jib. of large Chestnuts. Put them into a stewpan with a breakfast-cupful of good gravy and a couple of strips of lemon-peel; let them simmer till quite soft, then rub them through a fine hair sieve; put them back into the stewpan, shake in a very little cayenne pepper, a little salt and pounded spice to taste, a little more gravy or brown sauce, and let it simmer for five minutes longer. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey. — Remove the outer husk from four dozen Chestnuts, and put them on a Chestnut roaster (a sort of warming-pan riddled with holes) over a clear fire, continually stirring and shaking them until the second skin will come away easily; then put them into a stewpan with a wineglassful of white wine, as much good stock as will cover them, a good lump of butter, a heaped teaspoonful of pounded lump-sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. When boiled quite tender, but still remaining entire, put the Chestnuts into a hot sauce-tureen; reduce the liquor, by boiling it a minute or two longer, and pour it over them. They are then fit to be sent up with the turkey. Chestnut Shape.—Peel, boil, and pound some chestnuts, and mix with Jib of these four bitter almonds pounded fine, 3oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of butter, and the yolks of six eggs; when these are thoroughly beaten together, add the whites of four eggs whipped to a froth. Steam the mixtur.6 in a well-buttered mould, and serve with 1 pint of wine sauce. Chestnut Souffles.—(1) Slit the skins of three dozen large Chestnuts and roast them, but do not let them brown; then peel them, pound in a mortar and rub through a sieve. Put the puree back into the mortar, with half its weight in sugar, a part of which has been flavoured with vanilla, and add the white of an egg ; mix all thoroughly together, and then shape the paste into little balls. Dip each ball into whisked white of egg, let them drain, and then roll them one by one in caster sugar until they are completely covered with it; arrange them on a baking-sheet a little distance from each other, and bake them for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. When done, put them in a group on a folded napkin. (2) Boil ljlb. of Chestnuts in water until soft, peel off both the outer and inner skins, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and pound them until smooth. Separate the yolks and whites of eight eggs, beat the yolks well with 4oz. of caster sugar, and mix them Chestnuts—continued. with the pounded Chestnuts, beating the whole well. Whip the whites of the eight eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them lightly with the mixture. Butter a souffle-mould, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, stand the mould with the souffle on a dish, pin a napkin round it, and serve very hot with caster sugar. (3) Throw 1 pint of Chestnuts into boiling water and let them boil till the shells begin to open; then take them up and remove their shells and inner skins; after peeling and skinning, pound them in a mortar and rub through a sieve. Add to this Chestnut-flour 6 table-spoonfuls of milk, stir well, and let it boil over a slow fire for ten minutes ; then melt loz. of butter in a separate saucepan, stir into it loz. of flour, and when it is well mixed pour into it the milk and Chestnuts. As soon as it boils, remove it from the stove and beat well in the yolks of three eggs and loz. of powdered white sugar. Have ready the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth; stir this in very lightly. Grease a pint-and-a-half souffle-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderately quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve on a silver souffle- dish, or in the tin the souffle was baked in, with a hot napkin folded round it, and as quickly as possible. Chestnut Soup.—(1) Boil Jib. of Chestnuts until the peel can be easily removed, and then peel them, removing the inner skin at the same time. Rub the Chestnuts through a fine wire sieve. Put Joz. of butter in a saucepan, place it over the fire until it has melted, then put in a small quantity of finely-chopped mush- rooms and onions, and stir them over the fire until lightly browned, dredging occasionally with flour; then put in the Chestnuts, and pour in sufficient clear broth to form a thick cream. Boil up the soup, then turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Have ready some good broth or consomme, that of game or fowl being best. Peel the brown skin from a quantity of raw Chestnuts, and boil them a minute or two in water, to make the under-skin come away easily. Pound the Chestnuts in a mortar, boil in water till tender enough to be crushed through a sieve with a spoon, throw into the broth, and boil it up again. Pour into a tureen with a few crusts or dice of toasted bread, and a slight sprinkling of sugar at the bottom. Chestnut Stuffing.—(1) Peel a good-sized, sound shallot, chop it up very fine, place it in a saucepan on the hot range with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and heat it for three minutes without browning ; then add Jib. of sausage-meat, and cook for five minutes longer. Add ten finely-chopped mushrooms and twelve well-pounded cooked peeled Chestnuts, and mix all well together, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, J saltspoonful of powdered thyme, and 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Let this come to a boil, add Joz. of sifted breadcrumbs and twenty-four whole cooked and shelled Chest- nuts, and mix all well together, being careful not to break the Chestnuts. Let it cool, and it is then ready for use. (2) Shell lqt. of large Chestnuts, pour boiling water on them, remove the inner brown skin, and boil in salted water or stock till soft; then mash them fine. Take half for the stuffing, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of fine biscuit-crumbs, and season with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, moistening with 2oz. of butter warmed to melting. Professional cooks some- times use a little apple sauce, flavoured with wine, lemon, and sugar, with a Chestnut stuffing. Chestnut Stuffing with Truffles.— Peel the dark skins off some Chestnuts, immerse in boiling water for a few minutes, remove the light skins, and boil for twenty mintues. Put in a saucepan lib. of fat bacon and two shallots, and hold these over the fire for a short time; then add the Chestnuts, Jib. of truffles, previously cut into small pieces, pepper, spices, salt to taste, and a little powdered marjoram and thyme. Hold it over the fire a little longhr, turning it about, and it is ready for use. Chestnut Stuffing for Turkey.—Put a dozen or so large Chestnuts into a saucepan of water, and boil them until quite tender; then remove the shells and husks, put them into a mortar and pound them. Put 4oz. of shred beef-suet into a basin, mix in Jib. of breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and squeeze in a slight flavouring of lemon. Mix in the pounded Chestnuts, and the stuffing is ready for use.369 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Chestnuts—continued. Chestnut Timbale.—As a specimen of what can bo done in the way of artistic cookery, this timbale, by Dubois, may be considered as worthy of great merit. Mix in a basin Mb. of flour, Mb. of caster sugar, and ilb. of warmed, clarified butter; when worked quite smooth, add the yolks of five eggs, a little salt, and a little grated orange-peel. Work this for two or three minutes, and then add the whipped whites of five eggs. Butter some baking-sheets, spread the paste on jin. thick, and bake it in a slow oven. When taken out, cut out six flats of square shape, measuring- the height of the timbale - mould selected to be used; mask one side of these pieces with white sugar royal icing. Cut out a six-sided flat, from a pattern cut out of cardboard, mask this with marmalade, and glaze over, like the six flats, Fig. 451. Chestnut Timbale. with icing. The icing being dry, cut two opposite edges of the flats of biscuits with sloping edges, so as to make them fit neatly when joined together, and set them against the timbale-mould, fixing them on with icing sugar; adorn each face of these six sides with coloured piping, hiding the lines of junction with a thread of white icing; when set firm, remove the mould and place the timbale on a flat or piece of board, bordered ornamentally with gum-paste. When about to serve, fill the hollow with a sweet puree of chestnuts, flavoured with vanilla, mixed with preserved fruits cut in dice; cover the timbale with the glazed flat as a lid, and on the centre of that fix a little plume of spun sugar, or other ornament, such as a small vase of crystallised fruits or flowers. See Fig. 451. Compote of Chestnuts.—(1) Peel the brown skin off forty or fifty large Chestnuts, and put them in boiling water for a few minutes until the light skin comes off easily when rubbed in a cloth; then put them in a large copper sugar-boiler so that they lay flat at the bottom, cover them with a syrup at lfiOdeg. Fahr., and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When they are done, strain the syrup off through a conical strainer, and reduce it to 30deg. Fahr.; before reducing the syrup, flavour it with half the rind of an orange or lemon, cut very thin, or a quarter of a stick of vanilla. Put the Chestnuts in a compote-dish, strain the syrup over them, and serve. (2) Boast the Chestnuts, and when they are done peel oft' both the skins. Put 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a sauce- pan with oply as much water as it will absorb, put in the Chestnuts, and toss them about over a slow fire. When they are well coated with the syrup, turn them on to a dish, and dust them over with caster sugar. Serve the compote when cold. (3) Take about a hundred Chestnuts, remove their outer skins, and put them into a saucepan with about 3 teacupfuls of bran, a lemon cut into pieces, and some water. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let the Chestnuts cook until they are soft enough for a pin to go into them easily; then rub For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Chestnuts—continued. off the second skin, and throw them into cold water with the juice of a lemon in it. Clarify and boil gently 1Mb. of sugar to small thread degree—that is, when a drop of the sugar put on the end of the thumb is touched with the tip of the forefinger, and the finger and thumb opened again, draws to a fine thread, and on breaking leaves a drop both on thumb and finger (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar has boiled to this degree, drain the Chestnuts, and put them into it together with the juice of one lemon and § gill of orange-flower water. Put all these over the fire for a little while, but do not let them boil. Before they are boiling hot, take the pan from the fire and let it stand all night. Next day lift the Chestnuts out of the syrup, letting them drain into it. Boil up the syrup four times, then add more sugar, and boil it to the blow degree—that is, when a skimmerful of the boiling sugar will, when blown through, emit small sparks of sugar. When the syrup is boiled to this degree of heat, put the Chestnuts into it again, let them get thoroughly hot, and then put them into compotiers. (4) Boast some Chestnuts as if to send to table. Peel and remove the inner skin, then put them into a saucepan with jib. of sugar and 1 gill of water ; let them simmer in this for fifteen minutes, then squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve with powdered white sugar strewed over them. Compote of Chestnut-paste.—Boast fifty Chestnuts, peel the skins off, and rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Boil 12oz. of sugar to the ball degree, add the Chestnuts, and work all well together in the sugar-boiler with a spatula; when thoroughly mixed, take it off and put it by until wanted. Shape the paste in the form of Chestnuts, put them on a baking-sheet, and set them in the screen; roll them in apricot jam, and then dust some caster sugar over them; put them again in the screen on a wire drainer, and when dry, dip them in some sugar boiled to the crack. Arrange them on a dish, and pour some syrup flavoured with cnraijoa round them. Compote of Vermicellied Chestnuts.—(1) Slit the skins of fifty Chestnuts, and roast them ; when they are done, rub them through a coarse wire sieve on to a dish. Boil 12oz. of sugar to the ball degree, put the Chestnuts into it, and work all together with a wooden spoon while still on the fire. Flavour this paste with vanilla sugar, and rub it through a coarse wire sieve into the compote-dish in a raised pyramidal form; set it in the screen to dry crisp, and with a teaspoon place small heaps of whipped cream round the base. (2) Peel the outer skin off some large Chestnuts, and immerse them in boiling water for a few minutes until the second skin can be easily removed; then lay them flat at the bottom of a large copper sugar-boiler, cover them with syrup at 16deg. Fahr., and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When done, strain the syrup off through a conical strainer, reduce it to 30deg. Fahr., put the Chestnuts back in it, and press them through a hair sieve into a compote- dish. The Chestnuts will fall like vermicelli. Croquenbouche of Chestnuts. — Coat about sixty peeled Chestnuts with caramel sugar, and stick them on the outside of a mould, using sugar boiled to the crack to stick them together. Ornament the Croquenbouche when lifted off its mould and placed on the dish with caramel fruit-paste rings and green angelica, or with different sorts of liqueur bonbons. Croquettes of Chestnuts.—There ai-e several modes of pre- paring these little delicacies, but none have been found to supersede the receipt given by Ude. Take fifty good Chestnuts and put them in a hot oven, having scored each of them with the point of a knife, to save them the trouble of bursting. When well roasted, clean them, and put half (taking care to choose those that have most colour) into the mortar, with 3oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and well pound them; rub this paste through a hair sieve, then mix with it the same quantity of butter as before, a pinch of salt, 3oz. of sugar, and £ pint of cream, and put the whole over the fire in a stewpan to dry. When it has acquired a little con- sistence, add to it six yolks of eggs and any flavour desired, whether lemon, vanilla, citron, or coffee. Let this paste go to the fire again after the yolks of the eggs are added, and stir it well with a wooden spoon till it is rather firm. Butter a dish, and spread the paste over equally with a knife; cover 2 K uces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.370 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Chestnuts—continued. it with a sheet of buttered paper, and let it cool. When cold, cut it with a knife. Take half of a Chestnut, and make the paste into the shape of a big Chestnut; put some crumbs of bread over the croquettes, • then dip them into the yolks and whites of three eggs beaten up with a little salt, and into the breadcrumbs again. Give them a good shape, fry them of a nice colour, and serve them as a sweet dish. If dipped into eggs only, without crumbs, they are more delicate. Dust fine sugar over them after they are fried. Devilled Chestnuts.—Put lib. or so of large Chestnuts into a saucepan of salted water, and parboil them ; then plunge them into cold water, and with a sharp knife scrape off the skins, after removing the outer shells. Dry them, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry, tossing and shaking them about in the pan over the fire until they become of a golden colour, and sprinkling with salt mixed with double its quantity of cayenne. Take them out when done, and serve hot or cold, as desired. Forcemeat of Chestnuts.—Take some sound ripe Chestnuts, cut off the outer hard skin, and put them into boiling- water for a few minutes to remove the thin skin; take them out, and throw them into cold water, so as to preserve their colour, then drain and weigh them. Put 6oz. into a stewpan, and cook them for twenty minutes with a little veal stock or gravy. Let them g-et cold, then pound them in a mortar with an equal bulk of butter or 3oz. of fat bacon, add a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, 2oz. of breadcrumbs, and salt, with the yolks of two eggs to make the mixture bind well. Form the forcemeat into balls or cakes, dip into flour, and boil in some good stock or water for a-quarter-of-an-hour, when they are ready for use. Glazed Chestnuts.—Peel off the brown skin of some Chestnuts, and immerse them in- boiling- water until the under-skin can be easily removed; then put them in a saute-pan, with butter spread over the bottom; cover them with a veal broth and consomme, and simmer gently, but so that the Chestnuts will not break. When they are done, glaze them with a meat glaze, and serve. Preserved Chestnuts.—Peel the brown skins off some Chest- nuts, and immerse them in boiling water until the lig-ht skins can be easily removed. Have some very weak syrup ready, put the Chestnuts into it, stand them on one side of the fire, and let them simmer for several hours, adding a little more syrup occasionally. The syrup should thicken gradually while simmering-, otherwise it would be useless, as it would get mouldy. Heat the Chestnuts two days in this manner, then take them out, and drain them. Boil some syrup to the blow in a small pan; when it is cool, work it against the sides of the pan with a spaddle until it has a gloss. Dip the Chestnuts into this, drain them on a wire sieve, and dry in an oven for two or three minutes. Puree of Chestnuts.—(1) Peel off the outer skin of lqt. of Chestnuts, then put them into a saucepan of boiling- water with a lump of salt, and boil them for a few minutes. Bub one of the Chestnuts, and if the under-skin peels off easily, drain them, plunge into cold water, and remove all the skins. Put the Chestnuts into a saucepan with a quart of broth, place over the fire until boiling-, then move to the side and boil slowly until tender. When cooked, rub the Chestnuts through a fine wire sieve with a wooden spoon, then return them, with the remainder of the liquor, to the saucepan; put in a teaspoonful of sugar and a small lump of butter, and boil them up again. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve it while very hot. (2) Skin and blanch the Chestnuts ; boil in just enough stock to cover them, and when quite soft rub through a fine hair sieve. Add pepper and salt to taste, and a small quantity of boiling cream. (3) Boil lib. of Chestnuts for ten minutes, peel and skin them immediately, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of broth, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, and pb. of butter, and let all boil well for thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, and use when needed. Puree of Chestnuts a la Jardiniere.—Place in a saucepan 1 pint of puree of Chestnuts, moisten it with 1 pint of broth and a wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil ‘for thirty minutes ; then put in a quarter of a carrot, the same of turnip cut with a tin tube, 1 table-spoonful of asparagus tops, six Brussels Chestnuts—continued. sprouts, and a piece of cut-up cauliflower the size of an egg. Boil all together for fifteen minutes, and serve, after seasoning, with § table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Roasted Chestnuts.—Split the skins on one side of some large Chestnuts, put them on a pan with a perforated bottom, stand them over a moderate fire, and when they are done wrap them up in a cloth for ten or twelve minutes. Serve them witli salt and butter. Sug-ared Chestnuts.—(1) Roast some Chestnuts as if for the table, and peel off the skins. Have some osier rods, or reeds, cut into pieces 3in. or 4in. long, and put a roasted and skinned Chestnut on the point of each of these. Take a piece of butter about the size of a nut and rub it with the hand on a marble slab or an iron plate, taking care to rub the butter all over it and not to miss any part of it. Boil some sugar to caramel; that is, to the degree at which, if a little of the boiling sugar be put into cold water, it will when cold he brittle and snap clean (see Sugar- boiling). When the sugar is at this degree of heat, take a wood splint, with a Chestnut on the end of it, in each hand, and dip them in the caramel. Keep twisting about and twirling them round till they begin to cool, that the caramel may lie evenly all over them. When they begin to cool, lay them on the buttered plate, and proceed with two more. When all the Chestnuts are done and are cold, take out the bits of osier and wrap each Chestnut neatly in paper. This is a delicious sweet- meat, but it should not be kept. (2) Roast some Chestnuts as if for the table, take off the skins, and cut them into halves. Dip the halves, one at a time, in well-beaten white of egg, then roll them in powdered white sugar and lay them on paper in a moderate oven to dry. Do not allow them to touch one another till they are dry. They may, if desired, be glazed either white or brown. CHIANTI.—This is the name of a favourite Italian wine, which has found its way into this country, and obtained considerable repute. It has a fine Burgundy flavour, and as it can be supplied at a price little, if any, above that of the lower-classed French wines, its importation should meet with encouragement. See Italian Wines. CHICA.—Along the western littoral of South America this beer (brewed from maize) has enjoyed all the privi- leges that are usually associated with old age and civili- sation. Originally the drink of the American Indians, it has found its way to the heart of the civilised colonist, and has undergone so many alterations since then that the term is now applied, in that part of the world, to intoxi- cating drinks generally. The Chica brewed by the moun- tain Indians has a dark-yellow colour, with an agreeable, slightly bitter acid taste. It is found in every hut. and sometimes even in the graves of the chiefs. A modern traveller in these parts states in his book, “ Twenty Years in South America,” that he has drunk Chica that has been dug out of burying-places where it must, according to his calculation, have been interred upwards of three hundred years. Professor Simmonds tells us, in “ Popular Beverages,” that in brewing Chica from maize, the corn is malted in the usual way; an infu- sion is then made from it with boiling water, and the resulting liquor ferments without further addition. Two kinds of Chica are usually made from the same grain. The first, called claro, is the water in which the malt has been infused; this is drawn off, and afterwards boiled. In taste it has some resemblance to cider. The second kind is made by boiling the grain with the water for several hours ; it is then strained and fermented, and is called nito. The residue, or sediment, left in the jar of this latter brew is used as a ferment for bread. CHICKEN.—See Fowls. CHICK-PEAS.—These small leguminous vegetables (Cicer arietinum) are not much used in this country, although they are possessed of considerable nutritive and culinary merits. In France they are frequently used and known as Pois cliiches; in Italy, they are Ceci; in Germany, Kicher, or Kicherbsen; and in Spain they are Garbanzos,371 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sattces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chick-Peas—continued. or, as along the coast of the Mediterranean, Garavance or Garvanzos; and those grown in this latter country are generally regarded as the best for cooking. “These seeds,” says Rhind, “do not, like most other pulse, become of a soft, pulpy consistence by boiling, and therefore they never constitute a dish by themselves, but are strewed singly, as a garnish, over certain savoury viands, and form part of the olla—a dish composed of bacon, cabbage, pumpkin, and garvanzos—with which a Spanish dinner almost invariably commences. The Chick-Pea, when parched, has been much esteemed among many nations from the earliest periods of history, and in these days even it continues an article of great consumption. According to Bellonius, this pea was the parched pulse which formed the common provision of the Hebrews when they took the field; and Cassianus supposes it to have been the torrified seed mentioned by Plautus and Aristo- phanes. The Frictum cicer seems also to have constituted a part of the usual food of the lower orders at Rome. “ In those warm and arid countries, where travellers are constrained to carry their scanty provisions with them across vast desert tracts, they gladly supply themselves with small dried substances which require much masti- cation, and thus stimulate the salivary glands. Under these circumstances, parched Chick-Peas, or Teblebby, are in great demand, and are as common in the shops as biscuits in those of England. In Grand Cairo and Damascus, there are many persons who make it their sole business to fry peas for the supply of those who traverse the desert.” Boiled. Chick-Peas.—This is a Spanish dish of great repute, and is prepared as follows: Put the peas into a little tepid water in a basin, add a little salt, and place the basin in a warm oven or closet where it will retain the same degree of heat for fifteen hours. Stir the peas frequently, and when they are quite tender, take them out, drain and wash several times in cold water, put into a saucepan with sufficient boiling salted water to cover them, and boil gently over a moderate fire for three or four hours—that is, until they are cooked soft. If the peas are not good cooking peas, a little sal-ammoniac added to the water will help to soften them; but care must be taken not to use more than is required, or the peas will taste of it unpleasantly. Take them out, drain them, and serve with parsley and butter sauce or a rich gravy. Chick-Pea Soup.—First scald the Chick-Peas, then trim off their skins, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil till soft. Drain the peas, mash and pass them through a fine wire sieve into a stewpan, then pour in enough clear broth to make the required quantity of soup, and boil gently till somewhat reduced. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, dust powdered cinnamon over it, and serve with a dish of small croutons of fried bread. CHICORY.—Some confusion is likely to arise between this plant (Cichorium Intybus), which is used to adulterate coffee,' and the French salad Chicoree (Cichorium Endivia), which answers to our Endive. The latter will be described under the heading best known to us; but of the Chicory, so commonly added to coffee, there is much to be said here. We have the authority of I)r. Pereira (a celebrated chemist) for asserting that the addition of Chicory to coffee is depreciating to the quality of the beverage, and injurious to health. He writes : “ There can be no doubt that roasted Chicory must, when taken largely, have a tendency to excite diarrhoea”; and yet another authority informs us that roasted Chicory, used in any very large proportion, renders the coffee comparatively insipid, tasting something between treacle and licorice, whilst its continued use seldom fails to weaken the powers of digestion. In small quantities it does not seem to exert any very serious influence, but rather finds favour amongst the less refined drinkers of coffee. The roots are the parts used, and these are gathered Chicory—continued. when full grown, cut into slices, and exposed to heat in an iron cylinder, having been previously dressed with warmed lard. After the roasting is completed, the Chicory is ground in a mill, and in that state constitutes the article which grocers sell with cheap coffee. “ The addition,” says a technical writer, “ of one part of good, freshly-roasted Chicory to ten or twelve parts of coffee Fig. 452. Chicory-Plant. forms a mixture which yields a beverage of a fuller flavour and of a deeper colour than that furnished by an equal quantity of pure or unmixed coffee. In this way a less quantity of coffee may be used, but it should lie remembered that the article substituted for it does not possess in any degree the peculiar exciting, soothing, and hunger-staying properties of the more valuable product.” It is advisable to warn those who are inclined to use Chicory with their coffee that it is, when sold ground, almost invariably adulterated. We are informed that some pigments are worked up with it to give a strong colour, and various other roasted vegetable matters, not so innocuous as Chicory, are also added to it in order to reduce its prime cost. According to the report of an analyst, the following dangerous substances have been discovered in inferior samples: Venetian red, reddle, and red clay; roasted acorns, horse-chestnuts, beans, carrots, damaged dog-biscuits, damaged bread, damaged wheat, mangel-wurzel, parsnips, peas, rye, and burnt sugar; coffee husks, roasted lupins, roasted peas (coloured with reddle called “ Hambro powder”), dried coffee grounds, bark, logwood dust, mahogany dust, and other things equally useless or injurious. Some say that the scorched livers of various animals (such as bullocks, horses, and dogs) have been ground up with Chicory, and perhaps ingredients less pleasant to contemplate than these; but if Chicory is desired, it may generally be obtained quite pure if purchased of a reliable tradesman. The best plan, of course, is to buy it whole and grind it in the coffee- mill at home. Roasted Chicory absorbs moisture very readily, so that when pm-chased in quantity for future use, it should be stored in tightly-closed bottles. Should the lumps become moist or soft to the touch, or the powder cake together, it is not fit to use; although, if not too far gone in decom- position, it may sometimes be revivified by drying it on a hot plate in an oven. See Coffee. CHIFFONNADE.—This term is literally an appli- cation of the word “ chiffon ”—a rag—to the art of cookery. By some it is described as a sort of Julienne soup, made, so far as vegetables are concerned, with carrots, turnips, and celery only. Brunoise is another name for the 9 ir 9 U ix372 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Chiffonnade—continued. same, and so also is Spring Soup, or Potage Prin- TANIER EN CHIFFONNADE. Cliiffonnade (for Soups).—Chop well together half a head of lettuce, | handful of sorrel, a few branches of chervil, and a little parsley. Put it in soups five minutes before serving. Chiffonnade Soup.—Wash well, drain, and chop up very fine lqt. of sorrel with the green leaves of a lettuce-head. Brown in a saucepan, with 2oz. of butter and a sliced onion, seasoning with | table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Moisten with 3 pints of white broth, add a handful each of peas, string beans, and asparagus-tops, and boil for three- quarters-of-an-hour with loz. of butter. Serve with five or six slices of toasted bread. CHILIAN WINES. — Although hut little known in the markets of the world, there are few better wines than those produced in the New World. The Spanish settlers first introduced the vine into Chili, and it suc- ceeded so well that the consumption of wine became general, and wine-making a very important branch of com- mercial industry. To the French the Chilians are much indebted for the introduction of cuttings of the Burgundy and Bordeaux vines, which have succeeded so well that large quantities of the estimable wines of those names are now produced in Chili in preference to the Spanish introduction. White wine is not much in demand in Chili, although the quality when produced is admittedly superior to the red; but the working-classes are much addicted to a species of lightly-fermented wine called Chacoli, which is either white or red. Mosto is a purely native wine, and finds a ready sale along the coast. CHILLIES.—See Capsicums. CHINA CHILO.—See Mutton. CHINE.—The origin of this word is due in a measure to the French echine, signifying the spine or that part of the bony back of an animal that contains the spinal marrow. In trimming ribs, or a loin, it is usual to chop off what butchers call the chine-bone; but as they are also in the practice of weighing the meat before removing this chine, it is only just that the bone should be delivered with the meat, as a contribution to the stockpot. CHINESE TEAS.—See Tea. CHINESE WINES.—A variety of alcoholic liquors are manufactured in China, which may either be classified as wines or beers; they are made from rice, millet, wheat, beans, and kwe-kwa flowers, and of these the rice-wines are by far the more important. These may be either light or dark-cploured, according to kind and quality. See Rice. CHINGARA, A LA—This is a corruption of the word Zingara, signifying gipsy. Chingara Cutlets.—Flatten the cutlets and trim them neatly, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter and some pieces of ham, season, and fry them. Cut some slices of tongue, a l’ecarlate, the same size as the cutlets, and glaze them. When ready, arrange the cutlets on a hot dish, with a piece of the glazed tongue on each, pour over them some brown gravy made with the glaze from the cutlets, and serve. CHINGTJIRITO. —A common Mexican beverage, upon which the natives are easily intoxicated, very much to their bodily hurt. It has been affirmed that no alcoholic drink in the world is so injurious. CHIPOLATA.—This term is derived from a species of onion known in this country as Chibbal, and in France as Ciboule, a sort of chives, and applied to a very delicious ragout. In the Italian language the ci is sounded as chee, hence the transition from Cipolla, as Chipolla to Chipolata is easy. A favourite Italian dish Chipolata—continued. is Perdreaux a la Chipolata, a kind of highly-seasoned game sausage, which is used for dressing other dishes of game; but the fact that some cooks have introduced chestnuts into the Chipolata stuffing for turkeys has caused some confusion in the signification of the term. CHITTACKS.—The name given to certain American cakes, or biscuits, at one time held in high favour. CHITTERLINGS.— Correctly speaking, these are the small intestines of any animal, those of the pig being used chiefly as skins for small sausages. In this way the term has come to be applied to some sausages, but it is not often used amongst high-class cooks. Chitterlings a la Pranpaise.—Steep in water an equal quantity of calf’s pluck and pig’s pauncli, wash them well, and boil them in plain water for two hours. When cooked, drain, refresh, and wipe them ; then cut them into small pieces, put them in a basin, add some cooked fine herbs, season highly with spices and salt, and moisten with a small quantity of white wine. Have ready some well-soaked and washed fat pig’s intestines, fill them with the above mixture, and tie up the Chitterlings in Vin. or 8in. lengths. Prick the Chitterlings, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with some salt, vegetables, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer gently for two hours ; then take the saucepan off the fire, and leave the Chitterlings in their cooking liquor till half cold. Drain them, wrap them in a cloth, and press them between two dishes till quite cold. Broil the Chitterlings over a clear fire for nearly half-an-hour, turning them constantly; then put them on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. CHIVES.—Another name for this very useful flavour- ing is Cives, which gives to it the idea of an Italian origin. It was formerly called Cive in the French language, but it is known by more modern French Fig. 453. Chives. cooks as Ciboulette and Civette, and in Italian as Stame, a sort of chipolette, or small onion. Spanish cooks give Great Britain the credit of the origin of its production, and in pursuance of this idea—which is not strictly373 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Chives—continued. correct, for it grows wild almost anywhere in Europe, Asia, and Western North America—they have christened it Cibollino di Ingleterra—the little onion of England. In many kitchen gardens Chives (Allium Sclaenoprasum) are used for forming borders, which purpose they fulfil to perfection, for they are not only hardy, but ornamental and useful. Rhind describes the plant thus :—The bulbs are very small, connected in clusters of an elongated form, and the leaves are long, slender and pointed. The flower- ing stem, when it is allowed to rise, is slightly curved, and seldom attains to more than a few inches in height. The flowers are white, with a purple tinge; they grow crowded together, and are, even in the most cold and moist situations, followed by capsules and seeds. When culti- vated, the plants are, however, seldom allowed to run to seed, as they are not usually drawn to be eaten entire, but have the leaves and young tops cut off to be used as a pot-herb. When the leaves are gathered for use, if they are cut close, others will shoot up in succession, and in this manner a bed lasts three or four years, after which period it must be renewed. When fresh cut, these leaves are by some persons considered as an improve- ment to salads and seasonings. Their flavour suffers greatly if they are kept after gathering, even for* a very short time, and their produce is but small in proportion to the labour of gathering. On these accounts they are not much cultivated in places where vegetables are suqiplied to the markets; and they seldom find a place in the garden of the English peasant, who, partly from ignorance and partly from prejudice, does not live much upon those soups and savoury dishes which, while they are more wholesome and nourishing than the food which he usually consumes, are also considerably cheaper. The dishes called Civets, as of hare, rabbit, roebuck, &c., are derived from the French Civettes, or Chives. Chives Sauce.—!(1) Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and stir over the fire until of a pale golden colour; then pour in £ pint of broth with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced Chives, and season to taste with salt. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, keeping it very smooth. It is then ready for serving. (2) Put 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs in a sufficient quantity of broth, and boil them until thick and smooth ; then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls, or more, of finely-minced Chives and a lump of butter. Season the sauce with salt, and boil it gently for five or ten minutes previous to serving. (3) Put the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and pound them until quite smooth. Finely chop a handful of fresh green Chives, and mix them with the pounded eggs; then stir the mixture to a smooth, creamy sauce with 1 tea- cupful of vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and it is ready for serving. CHLORIDE OP SODIUM. —The chemical term for common table- or kitchen salt. CHOCA.—This beverage is better known in America than in England; it is made by mixing in equal quan- tities freshly-made coffee and freshly-made chocolate; then one-third of boiling milk is poured in and the drink sweetened with sugar, and served very hot. CHOCOLATE (Fr. Chocolat; Ger. Tchocolate; Sp. Chocolate; Ital. Cioccola).—This word appears to have had a peculiar derivation, which has not stood in the way of its adoption all over the civilised world. It takes its name direct from the Aztec words schoco, meaning “ noisy,” which we have corrupted into Cocoa, and latte, “ water,” thus giving one the idea that the Aztecs were familiar with its use as a beverage, and that the liquid was prepared by boiling the cocoa-bean in water; and this, according to reliable chroniclers, appears to have been the case. “ This is, without an exception,” writes an authority, Chocolate—continued. “ of all domestic drinks, the most alimentary ”; and there is no reason to doubt it, for by analysis it shows a high rate of nitrogenous, or flesh-forming, material. The Spaniards are reported to be the greatest consumers of cocoa or Chocolate in the world, and to them it has become so necessary for the support of health and phy- sique that it is considered an extremely severe punishment to withhold it, even from criminals. Chocolate is prepared from cocoa, under which heading the process is fully described, and at one time the Spanish manufacture was acknowledged to be the best; but in later years England, France, and Holland have vied with Sq>ain in this art, and, according to the opinion of con- noisseurs, have managed to surpass her. Indeed, it may be safely asserted that there is no better Chocolate made than that manufactured in France and England. Messrs. Cadbury, Fry, and others have done much to improve the quality of British-made Chocolate, and have adapted this sweetened preparation of cocoa to so many exquisite purposes, that it may now be regarded as a separate and special branch of confectionery. In Mexico a Chocolate paste is made by adding long pepper, a little annatto, and vanilla; some add cinnamon, cloves, and anise; and those who esteem perfumes add also musk and ambergris. In this country Chocolate enters into innumerable combinations, many of which will be found incorporated hereunder; but for any further information that may be desired, it will be necessary to refer to Cocoa. (1) Chocolate may be bought in cakes, and may be had either sweet or black. Allow about loz. to a breakfast-cup. Grate the Chocolate, or cut it into shavings, and melt it over the fire in ^ breakfast-cupful of water, stirring all the time, till the Chocolate is quite dissolved; then add 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, and keep on stirring till it boils, when it is ready for use. Should the Chocolate be too thick, a little water or a little boiled milk may be added. (2) Boil lqt. of equal parts of milk and water in a small, bright saucepan ; then scrape down loz. of common Chocolate, throw it in, and beat with a wire egg-whisk about one minute, or till the Chocolate is all dissolved. Serve it in cups as soon as made, if practicable, with sugar. If necessary to keep it for a time, set it where it will keep hot without boiling. (3) Scrape fine loz. of Chocolate, add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and put it into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of hot water, stirring over a hot fire for a minute or two until it is perfectly smooth and glossy, and then stir it all into lqt. of boiling milk, or half milk and half water. Mix thoroughly, and serve at once. If the Chocolate is wanted richer, take twice as much Chocolate, sugar, and water. Made in this way, Chocolate is perfectly smooth, and free of oily particles. If it is allowed to boil after the Chocolate is added to the milk it becomes oily, and loses its fine flavour. (4) Cut up a loz. square of Chocolate, and 'with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour mix it with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water and 1 pinch of salt. Put this in a small saucepan, and boil until smooth, stirring constantly. Add gradually 1 pint of boiling water, and when ready to serve add 1 pint of hot milk. Use all milk and two squares of Chocolate, if desired very rich ; or thicken with 1 teaspoonful of cornflour rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and boil five minutes before adding the milk. (5) Put 2oz. of Chocolate into a pot with a muller, and pour over slowly 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Work well for ten or twelve minutes over the fire, and the Chocolate is then ready for use. (6) Mix in a saucepan loz. of finely-grated Chocolate with a little hot water or milk, pour over sufficient to fill a breakfast- cup, boil for two or three minutes, and it is ready. It may be made entirely with milk or milk-and-water. (7) Select fib. of good Chocolate, break it into pieces, and put these in a saucepan on the stove with ^ pint of boiling water; stir well with a wooden spoon, and when the Chocolate is thoroughly dissolved pour lqt. of boiling water over it, using lqt. of milk instead of the water when Chocolate and milk is desired. Let it cook well for ten minutes, then serve.374 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cCc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. (8) Take f pint each of water and milk, and let them boil together in a saucepan. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate into a bowl, and with a little cold milk stir it to a smooth paste; then pour it into the boiling milk and water, and let it boil for two minutes, stirring all the time. Apple (flavoured) Chocolate.—Although vanilla may be regarded as the usual flavouring for Chocolate, a variety of fruit essences are sometimes used, amongst which that of the apple is the more common; or the Chocolate may be dissolved in water in which apples have been stewed to a piilp, and strained off. Chocolate-Apple Custard.—Peel, core, and cut into quarters about one dozen cooking apples, put them in a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, to prevent them sticking to the bottom of the saucepan, sweeten to taste, and dust in some powdered cinnamon. Cook the apples gently over the fire till reduced to a pulp. Scrape lib. of French Chocolate, put it in a saucepan with 6oz. of caster sugar and 1 qt. of new milk. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. When the Chocolate and milk boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and pour in gradually the eggs, stirring quickly all the time. Spread the apple pulp over the bottom of a deep dish, pour the Chocolate mixture gently over it, set the dish in a pan of boiling water, and stand it over the fire till the custard is firm. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the custard, brown it under a salamander, and serve. Chocolate Bavaroise.—Take 1 pint of cream and whip it to a stiff froth; soak loz. of gelatine in a teacupful of milk ; scrape loz. of Chocolate to a powder, add 2 table-spoonfuls of pow- dered sugar to it, put it into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of boiling water, and place the pan on the fire, continuing to stir it until it is quite smooth and glossy. Boil up another teacupful of milk, stir the Chocolate into it, and add the gelatine ; then pass it through a strainer into a basin and add more sugar, so that with the 2 table-spoonfuls used before the quantity will be ilb. altogether. Put the basin in ice, and beat the mixture until it becomes quite thick; then pour in the cream, mix all well together, and put it into a mould. When it is' quite hard, put it on a dish, and pour more whipped cream heaped round it. Chocolate Biscuits.—(1) Put the yolks of eight eggs in a basin with jib. of caster sugar, and beat them well; then mix in gradually 6oz. of flour, and continue beating until the batter is quite smooth. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then stir them in very lightly with the foregoing, and season the mixture with a few drops of the essence of vanilla. Butter some small round tins, three-parts fill each with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out of the tins, and leave them until cold. Put l|oz. of Chocolate into a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, and stir it over a slow fire until dissolved; then put in about Stable- spoonfuls of sugar, and continue stirring it over the fire until reduced to such a thickness that it will not run off the biscuits when spread over them. Dip the biscuits in the Chocolate, and lay them on a dish. When the Chocolate is dry and cold, the biscuits may be served. (2) Put the whites of three eggs into a basin with Jib. of caster sugar, and beat them together till thoroughly blended, adding gradually 60 drops of vanilla extract, twice that quan- tity of lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate. Cover a baking-sheet with paper, put the mixture in small lumps on it, dust over with a little caster sugar, put them into a cool oven, and leave them until they become hard. When done, take them out, brush the back of the paper with water, remove the biscuits, and let them get cold before using. (3) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding gradually an equal weight of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Mix in the yolks of three eggs, and beat for about twenty minutes; then add 2jroz. of Chocolate and the whites of two eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Smear a baking-sheet over with warmed lard, cover it over with paper also brushed over with lard and dusted with caster sugar, take up the mixture with a teaspoon, drop it on to the paper, put the biscuits , in a slow oven, and bake for about ten minutes. Take them out when done, and they are ready for use. (4) Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, then mix with them 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls Chocolate—continued. each of sifted flour and grated Chocolate. Thickly butter some baking’-sheets, put the mixture on them in small quantities, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the biscuits off the tins, and leave them until cold. Keep them dry in tin canisters. Chocolate Blanc-mang-e.—(1) Soak 2oz. of gelatine for two hours in 3 pints of milk in a saucepan, and then put it in a bain-marie, or use a double boiler. Scrape loz. of Chocolate fine, and put it in a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and boiling water. Stir this over a hot fire Fig. 454. Chocolate Blanc-mange. until smooth and glossy (it will take about a minute), then stir into the milk, add the remainder of ilb. of sugar, and strain. Turn into moulds, and set away to harden. The dish should be made at least eight hours before being wanted. A tea- spoonful of vanilla extract may be added at discretion. (2) Dissolve 3£oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand an hour; then boil 2qts. of milk, and stir in the solution of gelatine. Sweeten to taste, dissolve in about one-third of the mixture ilb. of Chocolate, and pour into the bottom of an ornamental mould. Set aside to cool, and when firm fill up with the plain blanc-mange. When quite stiff, turn out on to a glass dish, and serve with cream, wine, and sugar (see Fig. 454). Chocolate Blanc-mange and Cream. Soak lioz. of gelatine in i pint of cold water for four hours. Then warm lqt. of milk and stir into it the soaked gelatine and §lb. of sugar ; let it get very hot, and when the sugar and gelatine are quite melted, strain; add to it three heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate, boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly, then pour into a bowl and let it cool. When nearly cold beat it with an egg-whisk for five minutes; flavour to taste with vanilla, and whisk until it begins to thicken; then pour into a mould wetted inside with cold water and that has a cylinder in the centre. Let it stand all night; turn it out next day on a glass dish, and fill the cavity left by the cylinder with whipped cream, piling it high over the blanc-mange, and arranging among the cream little specks of bright jelly. Chocolate Bonbons. - (1) Put ylb. of the best French Chocolate in a sugar-boiler (one with a pointed lip to it will be required), and stand it over the stove till the Chocolate is soft. Dissolve yoz. of gum arabic in 1^ table-spoonfuls of hot water, mix it with the softened Chocolate, and stir all over a slow fire till the Chocolate is quite smooth ; then mix in 2oz. of fine icing- sugar. When well mixed, drop the Chocolate mixture from the spout of the sugar-boiler, cutting it off with a piece of bent wire, into pieces the size of Spanish nuts, and letting them fall in close rows on sheets of polished tin. When the bonbons are dry and hard, take up the sheet of tin with both hands and bend it both ways over a fine wire sieve until all the bonbons have fallen off. Pack the bonbons between sheets of paper, in small cardboard boxes. (2) Boil 21b. of sugar to larg'e pearl, that is, the degree of heat at which little raised balls appear on the surface of the sugar (see Sugar-boiling). Dissolve jib. of Chocolate over375 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. the fire, and put in 2 teaspoonfuls of the boiled sugar. Stir the Chocolate with this to a thin paste, then pour it into the rest of the sugar, and boil together to caramel (see Sugar- boiling). Melt a little butter to oil over the fire, skim if necessary, and pour it clear into a basin. Rub this butter all over a marble table, or slab, with the hand. When the Chocolate and sugar are boiled to caramel, or the degree of heat at which the sugar becomes brittle in cooling, pour the mixture on to the buttered slab. Take a long knife by the two ends, one in each hand, and with it press lines tin. apart all down it, and cross these lines with others the same distance apart; then pass the knife between the Chocolate and the slab. When cold, break it into square pieces, and wrap each in a piece of paper. Chocolate Boucliees.—Beat the yolks of six eggs in a basin with jib. of caster sugar, then add the well-whipped whites,' and sift in jib. of flour. When these are well mixed, fill a paper funnel with the paste, and press it out in rounds 1 jin. in diameter on to some sheets of paper ; sift a little caster sugar over these, and bake them. When they are done, trim the rounds with a cutter, spread the flat surface of one round with apricot jam, put another round on that, and so on until all the rounds are used, and then glaze them with some Chocolate icing. Chocolate Cake.— (1) Cream 1 teacupful of butter, and beat in gradually 1 j breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. Dissolve jib. of scraped Chocolate and 5 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar in 1 teacupful of boiling water, and stir over the fire until smooth ; then stir in the sugar and butter. Beat well three eggs. Mix with lib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 5 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix all together with 1 tea- cupful of milk. Bake for twenty minutes, on buttered sheets, in a moderate oven. This cake may be iced. (2) Cream 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, add gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, the yolks of five and .the whites of three eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour in which 1 j teaspoonfuls of baking-powder (or lj tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar and j teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda) have been mixed; work well. Cover two baking- sheets with this, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Put in a saucepan 6 table-spoonfuls each of grated Chocolate and sugar with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water, and stir over the fire until quite smooth; then pour in 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, and mix with the sugar and Chocolate. When the cakes are done, ice them over with this. (3) Beat jib. of butter and jib. of caster sugar well together: dissolve jib. of grated Chocolate in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and add this to the sugar and butter, with the yolks of four eggs. Mix jib. of flour, 2oz. of ground rice, and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder together, and sift over the Chocolate mixture ; then stir in lightly the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Pour this into a cake-tin, and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. (4) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in 6oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. When these are well in- corporated, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, a little vanilla for flavouring, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder mixed up with 1 jib. of flour; then beat in 2oz. of liquid or warmed Chocolate. Turn the mixture into buttered tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the cakes out when done, cover them with sugar-icing, and they are ready for use. (5) Blanch and peel jib. of almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound them until smooth, mixing in occasionally a small quantity of white of egg to keep them from oiling. Beat the yolks of nine eggs with jib. of caster sugar, then mix in the pounded almonds, 4oz. of grated Chocolate, 1 teaspoonful of pounded vanilla, and 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff snow, and work them in lightly with the other ingredients. Butter the interior of a fancy-shaped mould, strew in some breadcrumbs, then shake out all those that will not adhere to the butter, and pour in the batter (which should only three-parts fill the mould, leaving room for it to rise), and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the cake out of the mould when cooked, and leave it until cold. • Chocolate Caramels.— (1) Put 6jib. of granulated sugar, jib. of grated Chocolate, and 3 pints of cream or rich milk into I Chocolate—continued. a copper boiler having a round bottom, and boil over a clear fire, stirring constantly; when it arrives at the crack degree, add 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla extract, boil up, stir for a minute longer, and pour it out on to a slightly oiled or buttered marble slab. The caramel should be poured on the slab between greased iron bars to the depth of half an inch. Let it stand until quite cold, remove the bars, cut the batch into small cubes with a cutter, and wrap each one in waxed paper. (2) Take 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, j breakfast-cupful of sugar, jib. of Chocolate (cut fine), j breakfast-cupful 0/ milk, and 1 heaped table-spoonful of butter, and boil all together, stirring all the time. When this will harden in cold water, pour it into shallow pans, and as it cools, cut into small squares. (3) As for Bonbons, but with the ingredients in somewhat different proportion : 2jib. of sugar, jib. of Chocolate, jib. of butter, and j pint of milk or cream. Chocolate Caramel Icing.—Take 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar, one square of Chocolate (scraped fine), and 1 table- spoonful of water, and simmer gently twenty minutes, being careful not to let it burn. Spread on the cake with a knife whilst hot. Chocolate Caramel Tablets.—Boil jib. of sugar in 1 tea- cupful of water to the crack degree, and add 1 table-spoonful of scraped Chocolate; boil up again to the crack, and then let it cool. Oil a marble slab, turn the sugar on to it, and as it hardens cut it into lin. square tablets with the point of a knife. When quite set, break them apart. Chocolate Cheese. —Whip lj pints of cream until it is quite thick, and then add the juice of a lemon and joz. of isinglass dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of warm water. Melt jib. of pounded Chocolate, add a little water, and when the Chocolate is dissolved add a little sugar. Mix this with the whipped cream, pour into a mould, and stand on ice, having pre- viously whipped the mixture over ice until it commenced to freeze. Chocolate Comfits.—Melt 2oz. of Chocolate in a little warm water over the fire, beat and mix it to a paste, pour it over lib. of marzipan or almond-paste mixture, and flavour to taste with vanilla or cinnamon. Mix all thoroughly, spread it on wafer shapes, and bake in not too hot an oven. Chocolate Confection.—(1) Boil jib. of sugar to pearl, which is that degree of heat at which little raised balls form on the surface of the boiling sugar (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is at this degree, add to it 2oz. of Chocolate dissolved in a little water ; stir constantly till it boils, and then put the preserve into moulds. (2) Boil jib. of sugar to feather, that is, the degree of heat when, if a skimmerful of the boiling sugar is taken up and blown through, large sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar-boiling) ; then add to it 2oz. of gTated Chocolate, melted in a small quantity of clarified sugar; stir, and mix it in well. Serve before it is cold. Chocolate Conserve.—Put 2oz. of Chocolate and j teacupful of water into a saucepan, boil until the Chocolate is dissolved, and mix with jib. of sugar boiled to the pearl degree. Pour the mixture into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain until wanted. Chocolate Cream.—Cut jib. of Chocolate into thin shavings, soak it in a little cold milk, and then set it over the fire, crushing it smooth as it heats; then gradually pour in lqt. of milk, stirring continually. Mix the yolks of ten eggs with j pint of oream, stir this into the Chocolate, and thicken in a bain-marie. Chocolate Creams.—Boil jib. of sugar with a stick of vanilla to 40deg. Fahr., add 2 table-spoonfuls of double cream, and pour it all into a basin to cool. Take out the stick of vanilla, work the sugar with a spatula until it comes to a stiff paste, and then shape the paste into little nuts. Dissolve some Chocolate in a sugar-boiler, adding sufficient syrup at 20deg. Bahr. to bring it to the thiokness of a thin gruel. Dip the balls in the Chocolate, take them out with a fork, put them on a tin sheet, and finish with a cornet filled with the Chocolate. When they are cold, put them on a sieve to dry.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 376 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. The creams may be dipped in the Chocolate one at a time by means of a long needle. See Tig. 455. Fig. 455. Dipping Chocolate Cream Chocolate-cream Bars.—(1) To be able to make these, moulds, made either of tin or copper, must be at hand (see Fig. 456). Put the required quantity of Chocolate paste into a vessel to melt; pour as much of it into the moulds as will coat them to about ),in. in thickness, turning them about so that as the paste cools they will be evenly coated all over, and set them away to harden. Fill up the moulds with melted cream, prepared as for Chocolate Creams ; let it get cold and hard, smooth over the surface with more of the melted Chocolate paste, and let this set. Turn the bars out of their moulds, and they are ready for use. To obtain a good gloss, the bars must be brushed over with a solution of shellac in alcohol. (2) Have ready a tin, the sides of which are lj-in. high, cover the bottom and sides with greased paper, and pour in some melted sweetened Chocolate paste to about iin. in thickness. Over this pour the required quantity of cream, prepared as for Chocolate Creams, to about lin. in thickness, and let it set; then cover it over with more Chocolate. Cut it into bars with a sharp knife when cold, and it is ready for use. The Chocolate paste must be melted by putting it into a pan placed inside another one with boiling water, and letting it melt. The cream must be melted over a slow fire, and stirred continually before being used. (3) Should the bars be required with only a thin coating of Chocolate, the tins must be prepared with the greased paper as above, and the cream melted and poured into it. When set, it is taken out and masked all over—using either a knife or brush—with a thin coating of melted Chocolate, and it. may be cut up into bars as before. The idea of using greased paper in the tins is to ensure the cake of bars turning out whole. Chocolate-cream Buns or Cakes.—Prepare the cream as for Chocolate Creams, and when cooled form it into the shapes required, such as buns or cakes, put these in a warm place, and let them harden slightly on the outside. Put the required quantity of cocoa paste, or prepared Chocolate, into a copper bowl, set it in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and let it remain until the Chocolate is melted. Great care must be taken that no water enters, or the Chocolate will be spoilt. With a knife or brush, the latter for preference, mask the buns or cakes smoothly with this, and set them away to dry, afterwards, by means of another brush, glazing them with a solution of shellac in alcohol. Chocolate-cream Drops.—Put 41b. of granulated sugar into a sugar-boiler with lqt. of water and 1 teaspoonful of cream Chocolate—continued. of tartar, and boil to the feather degree ; then pour this on to a marble slab, when cold turning in the edges with a knife, and working the mass to and fro without intermission with a long-handled spatula, until it granulates into a putty-like consistency that can no longer be worked in this way. Scrape off any that may have adhered to the spatula, mix it all together, and work it with the hands in the same way as dough is kneaded; then form it into balls, roll these well, and put them on sheets of glazed paper until the Chocolate covering concretes. Remove the paper, and the drops are ready for use. The cream may be flavoured with any essence, extract, or fruit juice desired. Chocolate-cream Ice.—(1) Set | pint of milk over the fire, with £lb. of caster sugar and ilb. of grated Chocolate in it, and beat until the Chocolate is all dissolved; then strain it into another vessel and let it cool. Whip lqt. of thick cream in a pail or pan, set on ice, and add the Chocolate milk while whipping. Flavour with vanilla extract when all the ingredients are put into the freezer. (2) Beat up two eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and 1 teacupful of flour, and stir in 1 pint of boiling milk ; then add lqt. of cream and another teacupful of sugar. While this is being boiled, which will take about twenty minutes, scrape loz. of Chocolate into a small pan with 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar and one of boiling water. Place the pan over the fire, and mix until the paste is quite smooth and glossy; then put it into the other mixture whilst it is boiling. Pour all into a basin or mould, putting this into cold water or pounded ice to cool, and stirring frequently; when quite cold, add 1 teacupful of sugar and lqt. of milk, and put it on the ice to freeze. (3) Prepare a cream as for any other cream ice. Put in a saucepan 2oz. of well-chopped Chocolate and loz. of powdered sugar, add to it half the cream preparation, place the pan on the stove, and with a whisk stir briskly, and let it boil for three minutes. Take it from the fire, add it to the re- maining half of cream, then mix the whole well together for two minutes, and strain through a fine sieve into a freezer. Let it cool for thirty minutes, then freeze it exactly the same as for other ices, and serve the same. (4) Take jib. of vanilla-flavoured Chocolate, rasp it very fine, and throw it into a pan with a little water. When melted, mix and beat it with some cream which has been boiled, and a little salt. Except in creams of fruit, as pineapples, apricots, raspberries, &c., a little salt is always requisite, but only a very little. If this cream is to be iced, instead of sixteen eggs for lqt. of cream, only put eight, and set them on the fire to thicken, but be careful that they do not curdle. When removed from the fire, mix in 2oz. of isinglass, and rub the whole through a sieve. The isinglass should have been previously dissolved in a teacupful of boiling water. Put into the freezer, continually stirring until stiff. (5) Slice up jib. of Chocolate, put it into a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract (see Flavourings) and f pint of cream. Set it upon the stove to dissolve, and add loz. of isinglass (see Gelatine) ; strain through a fine strainer, and stir in 1 pint of whipped cream and 1 table-spoonful of maraschino. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, pour into a mould imbedded in ice, and when firm turn out in the usual way. (6) French Style.—Put Jib. of Chocolate into a saucepan on the fire, or at the entrance to the oven, let it melt, and work it with a spoon; then add 3 pints of vanilla cream, pouring- it in gradually, and lastly 5oz. of dissolved gelatine. Stir gently over the ice for a few minutes, turn it into a mould packed in ice, and let it freeze. Dip the mould into lukewarm water, turn the cream out on to a dish, and serve. Chocolate Creams au Nougat.— Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a sugar-boiler, with a little water to melt it, add loz. of ground almonds, and stir over a fire. When this is brown, spread it on a baking-sheet, and leave it until cold. Chop it very fine, and mix with it the same quantity of vanilla cream, made by boiling ilb. of caster sugar with a stick of vanilla until it reaches 40deg. Fahr., and then adding 2 table- spoonfuls of double cream, and putting in a basin until cool. Roll the mixture into little balls, and dip these on a fork377 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. into Chocolate made as for Chocolate Creams. Set them out on a baking-sheet, and when cold place them on a sieve to dry. Chocolate-cream Tarts. — Boil 1 pint of milk with loz. of grated Chocolate and a little sugar. Mix 2oz. of flour with about Jib. of sugar, and beat them into the boiling milk; then add loz. of butter and four yolks of eggs well beaten, and remove the pan from the fire before the eggs are cooked. Flavour with vanilla. Line deep tartlet pans with tart paste, fill them with the Chocolate cream, and bake in a slack oven. Whip the whites of the eggs, add 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and make a meringue. Squeeze this from a bag over the tops of the tarts, and put them in a quick oven until slightly coloured on the tops. Chocolate Custard (Baked).—Scald lqt. of milk, stir in 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of Chocolate and let it simmer a minute or two till the Chocolate has dissolved, stirring all the time. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with Jib. of powdered white sugar, take the Chocolate from the fire, and pour them in ; stir for one minute and flavour to taste with vanilla. Have a baking-tin filled about lin. deep with boiling water, pour the custard into cups, stand them in the tin of boiling water set in the oven, and let them bake slowly. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a little powdered white sugar, and when the custards are cold pile some on each, and lay a small piece of red jelly on top. Chocolate Drops.—(1) Put 51b. of pure Chocolate paste into a heated iron mortar, and with a warm pestle pound it until it becomes oily ; then add 2|lb. or 31b. of finely-sifted crushed loaf sugar, and continue to pound until thoroughly mixed. Turn it all out on to a slab and keep it warm. Roll out half at a time until it is of such a consistency and smoothness that it will dissolve in the mouth like butter ; then continue in the same way with the remainder. Warm it up again with a little lard, to make it more pliable, form it into small balls, arrange these in rows 4in. apart on sheets of white paper, take up the paper by the ends and bump it on the slab so as to flatten the balls slightly on the bottom, and let them get quite cold. Remove them from the papers, and they are ready for use. (2) Put ljlb. of Chocolate on a plate in the oven just to warm it; then put it into a lined pan with -Jib. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire until well mixed ; take it off, roll it into pieces about the size of small marbles, and put them on a sheet of white paper. Take the sheet by each corner and lift it up and down, so that it may touch the table each time, and by that means the drops will swell to about the size of a sixpence. Strew nonpariels over them, and leave them until cold and dry. Pack them between sheets of paper in cardboard boxes. Chocolate Drop Cakes. — Butter a baking-tin. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff snow, then mix with them 4oz. of caster sugar and 2oz. of grated Chocolate. Drop 1 tea- spoonful of this mixture at a time on the buttered tin, and bake in a cool oven. Take the cakes carefully off the tins while hot. Chocolate Eclairs.—See ^Eclairs. Chocolate Ice.—Put in a sugar-boiler lib. of vanilla Chocolate and f pint of water ; when it is melted, add 3 pints of double cream and i pint of syrup at 35deg. Fahr., strain it through a silk sieve into a freezing-pot, and let it freeze for one hour. Scrape off the frozen cream from the sides of the pot, and serve in ice-glasses. Chocolate Icing'.—(1) Take If breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, put it into the whites of two eggs, and beat them well together; then scrape 2oz. of Chocolate into a small pan with another y breakfast-cupful of sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of water, place the pan over the fire, and stir until the paste becomes quite smooth and glossy; then mix it into the eggs and sugar. When quite mixed, it is ready for use. (2) Put 1 teaspoonful of gelatine into 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and let it soak for two hours; then pour over it J gill of boiling water, and mix in If breakfast-cupful of sugar finely sifted. Prepare 2oz. of Chocolate as for No. 1, stir it into the mixture, and use at once. (3) This preparation is very useful for covering the tops of layer cakes, or for coating cream puffs. Boil lib. of caster sugar and f teacupful of water together in a deep stewpan for Chocolate—continued. five minutes, then add 3oz. of grated Chocolate. When this has been boiled until a little dropped in cold water will set hard, stir in four whole eggs rapidly, beating continuously. Let this mixture cook about five minutes more, constantly stirring. Flavour with vanilla extract, and keep on beating while using. When spread over a cake it cuts well, and does not crack or break off. (4) Put lib. of caster sugar and six whites of eggs into a bowl, and beat rapidly with a wooden spoon or spaddle for about ten minutes. Get 4oz. of grated common Chocolate in a pannikin on the side of the stove, and when it is melted pour it into the icing in the bowl, add 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla extract, beat up, and it is ready to use for cakes. Chocolate Kisses.—Beat fib. of caster sugar and two whites of eggs together in a bowl for about fifteen minutes, when, if it has been kept cold, the mixture will be white and firm enough to draw up in points; then add another white, and beat five minutes longer; then a pinch of tartaric acid or lemon-juice, vanilla flavouring, and 2oz. of grated Chocolate Fig. 457. Chocolate Kiss. (the common sort will do). Mix thoroughly, and then drop pieces as large as walnuts on greased baking-sheets, and bake in a very slack oven. The baking is the difficult part of the manufacture of these delicious sweetmeats. They need heat enough to make them swell and round out almost hollow, but the oven must not be hot enough to melt or colour them. When cold they will slip off the sheets. See Fig. 457. Chocolate Layer Cake.—Rub lib. of softened butter with lib. of flour and cornflour, mixed in equal quantities, and lib. of moist sugar, and work in the whites of fourteen eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly ; then squeeze in a little lemon-juice, add f breakfast-cupful of milk, and flavour with essence of lemon to taste, beating well again. Make an icing of lib. of caster sugar boiled in f pint of water for five minutes, add 3oz. of grated Chocolate, and boil again until a little dropped in cold water will set hard like candy; then beat in quickly four eggs, and stir over the fire for another five minutes. Flavour with vanilla, and beat it up occasionally while cooling. Fill. a mould in layers alternately with the cake mixture. Bake in a quick oven, and turn out for use. Chocolate Meringues.—Put the whites of three eggs into a basin with lib. of finely-crushed loaf sugar, and beat well for about fifteen minutes, or until the mixture is white and firm like icing ; then add three more whites, putting them in singly and beating one up well before another is added ; next mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of extract of vanilla and 3oz. of grated Chocolate. Put the mixture into a biscuit-forcer, let it drop on to a well-buttered baking-sheet, place the meringues into a slow oven, and bake gently for a few minutes. Take them out when done, let them get cold, slip them off the bakino-- sheet, and they are ready for use. Chocolate Mousse.—Put three cakes of Chocolate in the oven for a few minutes to soften them. When soft, work the Chocolate to a paste with a few table-spoonfuls of syrup flavoured with vanilla; warm it, and add gradually the white of one egg, whipped and sweetened, and 14 pints of whipped cream' slightly flavoured with vanilla sugar. Pack a quart dome- shape mould in pounded and salted ice, fill it with the mixture, put a cover on, and ice on the top of that, and leave it for an hour. Before turning the mousse out, dip the mould in tepid water. Chocolate Pastilles.—(1) Melt 8oz. of Chocolate in a small sugar-boiler, add a few drops of essence of vanilla and loz.378 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. of caster sugar, and mix them over a slow fire. Shape this into olives. (This is done by taking sufficient paste between the forefinger and thumb of the right hand to make a small filbert; put this in the palm of the left hand, and roll it with the index finger of the right in the shape of an olive.) When all the paste is used, roll the pastilles in white non- pareil comfits (“hundreds and thousands”), then place them in rows on a sheet of paper on a plate, and dry them in the screen. They must only be dried in a very moderate heat. (2) Put 8oz. of fine Chocolate in a saucepan, and stand it in a moderate oven to soften. Dissolve joz. of gum arabic in a little hot water, mix it with the Chocolate, and stir them both over a slow fire until quite smooth, then add 2oz. of caster sugar; mix this well, and lay out the pastilles by dropping them from the spout of the sugar-boiler, using a curved piece of wire to cut each pastille off neatly as it drops upon a sheet of polished tin. Chocolate Pie.—Prepare a plain flat cake, having it so thick that when cooked it can be opened (that is, the top separated from the bottom). Make a mixture of loz.' of Chocolate finely powdered and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar well mixed together; then add gradually j breakfast-cupful of boiling- milk and the yolks of two eggs well beaten, with a little vanilla for flavouring, and put it on the fire for ten minutes to simmer. Take it off, and when quite cold spread the bottom-half of the cake over with it, put on the top, sprinkle over with a little caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 458. Chocolate Pistachios.—Put the required quantity of grated Chocolate into a hot iron mortar, and pound it well with the pestle, also heated. Take a little out at a time, wrap it round a pistachio (rolling it in the hand to give it shape), and throw it into nonpareils. Continue in this way until as many are done as are wanted. Store them away in boxes or tins. Chocolate Pudding'.—(1) Put lj pints of milk into a pan to boil. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of scraped Chocolate into a small saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of boiling-water and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and put the pan over the fire until the paste is smooth and glossy; then stir it into the boiling milk. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of cornflour with j pint of milk and 1 teaspoonful of salt; pour this into the boiling milk, and stir for about three minutes. Take a fancy mould, dip it into water, pour in the mixture, and let it remain for a quarter-of-an-hour; then turn it out on to a dish, and heap some well-whipped cream all round it. Sugar and cream, or vanilla sauce, may be served with it. (2) Put in a saucepan 3oz. of grated Chocolate, 1 teaspoonful each of nutmeg and cinnamon, and lqt. of milk, the latter being added gradually whilst stirring, put the lid on, and let the mixture come to the boil. Take the saucepan off the fire for a few minutes whilst the Chocolate is stirred up from the bottom, and press out the lumps; then put it on the fire again, and when it boils, stir in slowly alb. of caster sugar; then set it away to cool. Beat six or eight eggs very light, pour them into the pan of Chocolate when this is quite cold, beat all well together, and bake. It will bake best by being put in a pan of boiling water. To be eaten cold. (3) Warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it to a cream with 2oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of three Chocolate — continued. eggs, and 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow, and mix this in. Butter the interior of a dome-shaped mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin, or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (4) Put joz. of gelatine in as much cold water as will cover it, and let it soak ten minutes; then put the gelatine into a small saucepan on the stove, and stir it in until it is melted, but do not let it boil. As soon as it is melted, take it off the stove and let it cool a little. Mix jib. of grated Chocolate with 1 pint of milk till it forms a smooth paste, put this into another saucepan on the stove, and stir till it boils. Put the yolks of four eggs into a bowl, cover them with 2oz. of sugar, and pour over them the hot Choco- late and milk; pour this quickly from the bowl into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, but not allowing it to boil. Take the saucepan from the stove, put in a few drops of essence of vanilla, and stir into it the melted gelatine. Wet the inside of a 1) -pint mould to prevent sticking, pour the pudding into it, and put it in a dry cool place till the pudding sets; then turn it out on a glass dish, and serve. (5) Grate jib. of Chocolate, and rub six penny stale sponge cakes through a fine wire sieve. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk, and place it over the fire until the butter is melted. Then mix in the grated Chocolate and cake crumbs, and stir it until thick. Take the saucepan off the fire and let the contents cool a little. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat the yolks well with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and stir them into the above mixture. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly at the last. Butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for two hours. Care must be taken that the water does not enter at the top of the mould. Beat the yolks of two eggs well with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and j pint of sherry; pour this into a small basin, which stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk it well over the fire until of a thick creamy froth. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Chocolate Pudding with Almonds.—(1) Blanch and pound in a mortar 4oz. of almonds ; warm 2oz. of butter, beat it well with 3oz. of caster sugar, then mix in gradually the yolks of six eggs, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate, and the pounded almonds, working the mixture well. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow, and add this to the mixture. Butter a mould, dredge caster sugar in it, shake out what is superfluous, pour in the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, irlace it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould out on to a hot dish, pour vanilla cream sauce over it, and serve. (2) Blanch 2 table-spoonfuls of almonds, and cut them into thin fillets; soak j teacupful of grated brown bread in a small quantity of port wine, wash and dry 2oz. of currants, grate 2oz. of Chocolate, and mix together with the beaten yolks of four eggs and 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar; then add a small quantity of allspice or pounded cloves ; whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the above mixture. Butter a mould, pour in the pudding mixture, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a Chocolate sauce, either poured over it or in a sauceboat. Chocolate Pulled Candy. Put 1 teacupful of cream into a saucepan with jib. of light-coloured molasses or golden syrup and the same quantity of sugar, and boil for about fifteen minutes; add loz. of grated Chocolate, and boil until the mixture is brittle. Turn it out on to a dish, add a little vanilla flavouring when it is nearly cold, and it is ready for use. Before the mixture is quite cold, it may379 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Chocolate—continued. be pulled into various shapes, as is frequently done by the Americans. Chocolate Roll Pudding'.—Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and then put in the yolks and 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar and flour, beating all together; as soon as they are thoroughly well mixed, stir in 1 teacupful of cold water, with a little bicarbonate of soda, about the size of a pea, dissolved in it. Take a baking-pan, pour in the mixture in a thin layer, put it in the oven, and bake from twelve to fifteen minutes. When done, sprinkle 2 table-spoonfuls of milk over the top, then take it out of the pan, put it on a flat tin or dish, and spread over it the following' icing mixture: Take six eggs and beat the whites to a stiff froth; take half of this, and add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and to the other half 1 teaspoonful of sugar and 3 teaspoonfuls of finely- powdered Chocolate. Spread half of each mixture over the top of the pudding, and put it back in the oven for five minutes to harden; then take it out, roll it up, put the remainder of the icing on the top and sides, and harden again in the oven ; now take it out and put it on to a flat dish. Next prepare the following sauce: Take the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, and 1 teacupful of caster sugar added gradually, and beat well up ; add the yolk of the egg, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and 5 table-spoonfuls of boiling milk. Pour this round the pudding, and serve. Chocolate Sauce. -Put loz. of Chocolate into a lined saucepan with J pint of milk and a few drops of essence of vanilla; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire until boiling. Well beat the yolks of four eggs, then stir them quickly in with the boiling sauce at the side of the fire until the eggs have thickened ; but it must not boil again, or the eggs will curdle. Chocolate Snaps.—Put the whites of three eggs in a basin, taking care none of the yolks get mixed with them, and whisk to a stiff froth; then mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate, and 2 table- spoonfuls of blanched and pounded almonds. Stir the mixture with a spoon until all the ingredients are incor- porated. Cut some strips of wafer-paper about tin. long and 2in. broad, spread them with the mixture, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put in a cooled oven. When the snaps I are dry, take them out, and leave them until cold. Chocolate Souffle. (1) Put If breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a ! double boiler, or in a pan in a bain-marie, put it on the fire, and boil it. Then with % breakfast-cupful more milk mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour, aud add it to the boiling milk. Dissolve lloz. of Chocolate and 1 teacupful of sugar with 2 table-spoonfuls of boiling water, and add it also to the milk. Next beat the yolk of three eggs, add j saltspoonful of salt, put this in, and boil for two minutes longer. Put the boiler in iced water or pounded ice, and beat until cold. Flavour with 4 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and pour it whole into a dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff I froth, put in ^ teacupful more sugar, and heap it on the mixture in the dish. Sift a little sugar on the top, and brown with a salamander. Fig. 459. Chocolate Souffles. (2) Grate three or four cakes of Chocolate into a stewpan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of warm water, and stand it at the side of the fire until the Chocolate is melted ; then remove it from the fire, and work it with a wooden spoon. Flavour 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar with vanilla, add it to the Chocolate, and when it is thick beat in with it the yolks of five eggs and the whipped whites of two, sweetened with sugar. Whip the whites of three eggs, and pour the above preparation Chocolate—continued. on them; then turn it into a souffle-case, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. (3) Whip the whites of four eggs until they are stiff, then add slowly 12oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of grated Chocolate, and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar. Work this to a paste, and then three-parts fill small paper souffle-cases with it. Bake in a slow oven. See Fig. 459. (4) Grease a band of paper and fasten it round a lj-pint souffle-tin, so as to form a wall of paper above the tin and confine the souffle as it rises. Grease the inside of the tin also. Warm loz. of butter in a saucepan till it is molted, then stir lTiz. of flour into it, also 1 teacupful of milk, and continue to stir till it has boiled ten minutes; then take the saucepan from the stove, keep on stirring, and throw in 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 3oz. of g'rated Chocolate, and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Have ready beaten to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs, and stir this in very lightly. Pour sufficient mixture into the souffle-tin to about two-thirds fill it, put the tin in a deep saucepan in which there is enough boiling water to reach half-way up the sides of the tin, cover the saucepan, gently draw it to the side of the fire whore the water will only simmer, and let the souffle remain in it for half-an-hour, keeping the saucepan covered. Then take it up and slip it quickly from the tin into a souffle dish, or fold a hot napkin round the tin in which it was cooked, and serve at once. If the room in which it is to be served is far from the kitchen, carry it there in a hot box. (5) Glazed.—It is only such cooks as Dubois who attempt dishes of this kind, and he says : “ If such Souffles are to be prepared, there must be at one’s disposal a round box in copper, tin, or zinc, the interior arranged so as to receive one or two lattices in iron tin-wire, that is, very light; the box must be closed hermetically previous to preparing the souffles, and placed on a thick layer of salted and saltpetred ice.” Pour into a stewpan nearly ^ pint of syrup at 38deg. (see Sugar-boiling), drop in half a bean of vanilla, and stand it on the fire. Put six or seven yolks of eggs in a sugar-boiler, and directly the syrup bubbles pour it in with the eggs, and whip them well, holding the pan over the fire for two minutes. Take it off, and continue whipping until it is cool; then stand it on ice, and whip for five or six minutes longer, adding at the same time J pint of whipped cream mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, flavoured with vanilla. Get fifteen pretty little cases in plaited paper, fill them with the preparation, place the cases in the metal box, put a lid on, and cover it with a thick layer of ice, salted and saltpetred, and let them be for half-an-hour. Take the souffles out, sift some biscuit powder mixed with vanilla sugar over them, range them on a folded napkin, and serve. Chocolate Soup. -Put 2oz. of Chocolate powder into a sauce- pan with a stick of vanilla or cinnamon, pour in lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste with sugar, and boil it. Beat the yolks of five or six eggs to a stiff froth; move the soup to the side of the fire, leave it for two minutes, and then stir the beaten eggs in quickly. Cut some stale, small buns in halves, toast them, put them in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve while very hot. Chocolate Spongeade.—Put into a basin 4 teacupfuls of whipped cream, add 9oz. of sugar, and let it dissolve. Put 9oz. of Chocolate into a saucepan on the side of the fire, melt it, add 3 teacupfuls of water and 1 teacupful of whites of eggs (not whipped) ; then add the cream and sugar. Pass the whole through a fine sieve into a freezer, work it well, and serve in small glasses. Chocolate Sweetmeats.—Put lib. of sweet almonds into a basin, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover them, slip them out of their skins, and throw them, as they are blanched, into cold water. Drain the water from them, dry them thoroughly, and pound a few at a time to a fine paste, adding a little water during the pounding to prevent the almonds oiling. Put this paste over the fire in a preserving-pan with lib. of finely-powdered white sugar, and stir and work it to- gether well -with a wooden spatula. Break up 2oz. of Chocolate into a very little warm water, stir it over the fire in a small saucepan till the Chocolate is quite melted, and mix it with the pounded almonds and sugar in the preserving-pan; then lay it on wafer-paper in any shapes that may be desired,380 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads0 Chocolate—continued. and bake in not too hot an oven. Should the sweetmeats not be coloured enough, colour them darker with a little sal-ammoniac. Chocolate Syrup.—(1) Mix up Jib. of scraped best Chocolate cake with lqt. of water, add 41b. of loaf sugar, and stir over a slow fire until the Chocolate is dissolved and the sugar syruped. Very useful to the pastrycook and con- fectioner. (2) Rub down to a coarse powder 2oz. of the bark of roasted cacao-beans, and mix with 2oz. of simple syrup; boil this in 1 pint of syrup made by dissolving 12oz. of sugar in J pint of water, and after an-hour-and-a-half’s gentle simmering, strain through a flannel bag, and add 2 drachms of extract of vanilla. Chocolate Tablets.—Boil 71b. of loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 3 pints of water in a sugar-boiler for ten minutes ; then add lib. of warmed butter, let the mixture froth up, boil to a weak crack (or 5deg. less than the crack), pour it out on to an oiled slab, and cover over with Jib. of powdered Chocolate. Work this well in, kneading the mass as if it were dough, pull it again and again over a hook fixed in the wall, return it to the slab, work it into ropes or flat ribands, let it cool, mark it into tablet shapes or squares, break it up at the indentations when cold, and pack away in boxes for future use. Chocolate Tart.—Prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of Chocolate and stir in a couple of well-beaten eggs. Line a pie-dish with a very thin layer of puff paste, pour in the mixture, place it in the oven, and let it set quite firm. Have ready Jib. of cooking' apples, peeled, cored, sliced, and stewed tender (or use tinned apples), put them on top of the Chocolate, cover over with cream, and dust over with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; cover over the tart with more paste, glaze the surface with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Chocolate- and. Vanilla-cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of the finest picked gum arabic in J pint of hot water, squeeze it through muslin, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and put in as much caster sugar as it will absorb, working the whole into a rather stiff, smooth paste. Melt 4oz. of Chocolate with 1 table-spoonful of water, standing it in the oven until it is quite dissolved, and then beat in with a spoon the whites of two eg’gs. Have ready a biscuit- forcer, with a Jin. tube at the end of it, fill it with the gum preparation, and push it out upon a large sheet of paper well sifted over with fine sugar ; as the cream is forced out, cut it off in pieces from the mouth of the forcer with a knife, so that each shall be about the size of small filbert-kernels; when the paper is full of these drops, put it on a baking- sheet, and set this in the screen for ten minutes. Take one at a time of these drops on the tip of a fork and dip into the Chocolate icing, then set them on a fine wire tray, and put in the screen for ten minutes. When quite hard and set, put them between sheets of paper in a box. Chocolate Wafers. — Thoroughly whisk the whites of two eggs, then mix with them 4oz. of grated Chocolate, Jib. of caster sugar, and sufficient flour to form a stiff paste. Roll the paste out as thin as a penny-piece on a floured board, cut it into cakes 3in. in diameter, lay these on a baking-tin, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the cakes out of the oven, detach them from the baking-tin by passing the blade of a knife underneath, and roll them one at a time round the handle of a wooden spoon. Slip them off quickly, and dry them. Chocolate Whips.—Put loz. of Chocolate, finely powdered, into a small pan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar and 1 table- spoonful of boiling water, and let the Chocolate dissolve; when it has dissolved, put it into 1J pints of milk, which should have already been made hot in a double boiler or bain-marie. Beat six eggs and Jib. of sugar (less the 2 table- spoonfuls already used) in J pint of cold milk, and stir all into the boiling milk, continuing to stir until it thickens; then put in 1 pinch of salt, and let it cool. Take 1 pint of cream, put 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar into it, and season with J teaspoonful of vanilla extract; whip this to a froth. When the custard is quite cold, put it into glasses, and heap the cream upon it. It may be served in one large glass, and then the cream is also put on top of it. Chocolate—continued. Chocolate Wine.—Put 4Joz. of scraped Chocolate cake into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved; then mix in gradually 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of powdered white starch, stirring the ingredients over the fire. Boil for fifteen minutes, then turn it out, and place it where it will get cold, when it is ready for serving. Flavour with vanilla or almond extract. Frothed Chocolate.—Put 3 pints of fresh milk over the fire. Blend 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate in J pint of boiling water, and as soon as the milk boils stir the blended Chocolate into it and let it simmer for ten minutes, stirring it almost constantly. Have the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, three of them whisked up with 2oz. of sugar, and two without sugar. When the Chocolate has simmered for ten minutes, let it boil up; then take it from the fire and stir in sufficient sugar to sweeten it moderately, and the whites of the two eggs frothed without sugar. Have the Chocolate-pot very hot and pour the Chocolate into it. Serve it in cups, laying on top of each cup of Chocolate a spoonful of the sweetened froth or meringue. Iced Chocolate.—Break 4oz. of Chocolate into small pieces; put these in a saucepan with J teacupful of cold water, and stir over a slow fire, with a wooden spoon, until dissolved. Take the Chocolate off the fire, mix in 1 teacupful of hot water, and stir it well for a few minutes; mix 1 teacupful of cold syrup at 30deg. Fahr. with this, and turn it into a freezer. When frozen, it is ready to serve. Mulled Chocolate.—Blend 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Chocolate to a paste with boiling- water. Put 3 pints of fresh milk over the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in the Chocolate paste; let it simmer for ten minutes, and then with a Choco- late-muller churn it to a froth, keeping it over the fire meanwhile. Pour it into a Chocolate-pot, and serve at once. Parfait au Chocolat.—Put Jib. of the best Chocolate in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire till dissolved. Prepare a custard with 1 pint of milk, ten eggs, and sugar to taste ; mix the dissolved Chocolate with this, and pass the whole through a silk sieve or tammy-cloth ; then place the mixture over ice, and work in with it a small quantity of whipped cream and syrup. When quite smooth, turn the custard into a long plain mould (called in France a mould a parfait), and pack it in ice for two hours. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the parfait on to a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Stamped Chocolates.—To form the Chocolate into shapes, have two kinds of moulds, made either of thick tin or copper tinned inside. The one, with a narrow edge, is impressed with a device or figures, such as men, fish, &c.; the other is flat, or nearly so, and the same size as the first, with a shallow device in the centre. Pound some unsweetened Chocolate in a warm mortar, and when it forms a paste put it in the first mould, and then press the flat stamp on the Chocolate. In this way the Chocolate is marked with both the devices. When it is cold it can be easily taken out. These are not usually attempted by amateurs, because of the expense of the stamps and moulds. Fig. 460. Loin Chop. CHOPS.—There is no word in any other language that can he called the direct representative of “ Chop.” To those acquainted with English, the signification is unique, nor can it lie confounded with the foreign381 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Chops—continued. cotelette, which is equivalent to om- cutlet. It means just exactly what it says—a piece chopped off, and might therefore, as meat, he any part of the animal; but the orthodox Chops being cut from either loin (see Fig. 460) Fig. 461. Chump Chop. or chump (see Fig. 461), it is customary to confine the term to these two parts, and to speak, therefore, of loin Chop or chump Chop according to whether it is cut from the loin or from the larger surface of the buttock end of the loin, whence the leg has been cut, and commonly called the chump. The literal meaning of chump is a short, thick piece of wood—a signification that should not, in respect of quality, be extended to the Chop. Broiling or grilling is the correct mode of cooking Chops, and full directions will lie found for this and other styles under such headings as Lamb, Mutton, Pork, &c. CHOPPERS.—No properly-ordered kitchen would be without an instrument suitable for chopping up or mincing meat, suet, or other foods. Some of those used Fig. 462. Chopping-knife. are very simple in their construction. Fig. 462 is in the form of a cook’s knife, with a blade varying from 2in. to 4in. broad at the forte, and tapering to a point at a length of from 8in. to 20in. It is the form commonly used in Continental kitchens. For chopping parsley and cutting up fine salad they are exceptionally effective. Choppers—continued. For chopping suet, a chopper such as Fig. 463 is generally preferred, these partaking of numerous varieties in shape and style of handle, but resembling each other in action. In size they vary greatly, some being so large as to require both hands to work. For chopping on a large scale, such as meat for sausages, or vegetables for soups, Fig. 464. American Meat- and Vegetable-chopper (Starkett’s Patent). a machine such as Starkett’s chopper is found to be most valuable. The meat or vegetables are placed in the cylindrical vessel, and upon turning a handle the chopper goes up and down with great rapidity, and the cylinder rotates at the same time, thus bringing all the contents under the chopper with consummate regularity. See also Cleavers, Mincing, &c. CHOUCROUTE. — This is the French term for German sour-crout {saver-kraut), of which it is an evident corruption. Larousse, the French etymologist, says: “ This word owes its origin to the inclination displayed in all languages, but more especially the French, to adopt unknown words to those which are known. Of sauer (soui') we have made cliou (cabbage), and of kraut (a cabbage) we have made croute (a crust).” See Sour- crout. CHOUX.—This French term should properly signify “ cabbages,” but by some extraordinary etymological freak it has become familiar in first-class kitchens as the name of a paste (pdte-d-clion), from which some very dainty little cakes can be manufactured. The following receipts for making this paste are those generally used by Continental pastrycooks, and may therefore be con- sidered as standards, from which certain little varieties for special purposes have been advocated. Choux Paste (Pate-A-chou).—(1) Put jib. of butter in a stew- pan with 2oz. of caster sugar, a pinch of salt, £ pint of water, and a little finely-grated lemon-peel, and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil; then sift in 4oz. of flour, and continue stirring till it forms a very stiff paste. Take it off the fire, and leave till cold. Break two or three eggs, one at a time, in with the paste, and beat it together till the paste is soft and will fall easily from the spoon. It is then ready for use. (2) Into a saucepan put 1 pint of new milk and 2oz. of butter, and set it on the stove, stirring slightly with a wooden spoon; when the milk boils, sift in ilb. of fine flour, and stir briskly for at least two minutes. Remove the pan to a table, break in one egg, and mix sharply for two minutes ; break in a second egg, mixing sharply again, and repeat with a third and a fourth, when the Choux paste is ready for use. Care must be taken in mixing these pastes not to make them thicker than a stiff batter. The following l are a few adaptations: Choux with Caramel.—Put lib. of butter in a saucepan j with 1 pint of water and 1 saltspoonful of salt, place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, where it may just simmer, and stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a thick, smooth paste. Put the saucepan over the fire, | stir three or four minutes longer, then take it off and let the paste cool. Flavour the paste with rose-water, or any other I flavouring preferred, then mix in slowly five well-beaten eggs.382 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces d‘C., referred to, see under their special heads. Choux—continued. Choux—continued. When quite cold shape the paste into small balls, and lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, leaving a short space between. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put them in a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Blanch and chop coarsely fib. of pistachio-kernels, and mix them with 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants and 4oz. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Put fib. of caster sugar into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until browned ajid somewhat like treacle in consis- tency. When the Choux are cooked, take them on the point of a skewer, one at a time, dip them in the caramel, and then roll them in the pistachio mixture, giving' them a good coating. Lay them out of hand on a wire sieve and leave until cold. Arrange them on a dish over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Choux with Coffee Icing (a la Comtesse).- Butter a baking-sheet, with a fork drop on it pieces of Choux paste about the size of fowls’ eggs, and bake them in a quick oven till crisp. When cooked, cut a small piece out of the bottom of each piece of paste, and scoop out a little of the paste to form a hollow. Prepare some very stiff coffee icing, and dip the pieces of paste in it, giving them a good coating; then stand them on a wire tray, and dry in the screen. Whip f pint of cream to a stiff froth, mix some of the coffee icing with it, fill a paper cornet with the mixture, and force it into the hollow of each piece of pastry; then fix in the pieces that were cut out, pile them pyramid fashion on a fancy dish, and serve. Sfiil Clioux Crisped (Pralines) with Almonds or Filberts.— Pour 1 breakfast-cupful each of water and milk into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of butter, and bring them to the boil; then remove the pan from the fire, and work in sufficient flour to form a softish paste. Place the saucepan back on the fire, stir until all the lumps are broken up and the paste is per- fectly smooth, and let it dry over the fire for a few minutes ; then mix in loz. of butter and two eggs, and stir these well in, next adding 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, two eggs, a little salt, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and 2 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Form the paste into small cakes, decorate them with blanched and chopped al- monds or filberts (see Fig. 465), brush them over with egg, dust with powdered sugar, put them into a slack oven, and bake to a light colour. Serve at once. In mixing the paste care must be taken not to make it too thick. Fig. 465. Chou Crisped (Pralines) with Almonds or Filberts. it off in small pieces, and Choux either Crisped (Pralines) or Glazed.—Boil 4 pint of water in a stewpan, and then stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small pinch of salt; move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, mix in 4|oz. of flour, and stir it with a wooden spoon till quite smooth. Place the stewpan over the fire, and boil the paste for five minutes, stirring all the time. (Remove the paste from the fire, leave it two or three minutes, then beat in (one at a time) four or five whole eggs, 2oz. of butter (in small pieces), and 1 table- spoonful of lemon or orange sugar. Put the paste in a biscuit- forcer and squeeze it out, cutting placing these a short distance from each other on a baking- sheet. Brush the Choux over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg, and then, if de- sired, put a pinch of chopped almonds or other kernels on each (see Fig. 465), sift a small quantity of caster sugar over them, and bake in a slack oven for fifteen or eighteen minutes. When the Choux are baked a golden brown, pass a knife underneath to disengage them from the baking-sheet, and then leave to cool. To glaze the Choux (see Fig. 466), dip them in syrup boiled to tli§ crack, and drain on a fine hair sieve They may be opened and Fig. 466. Glazed Chou. filled with flavoured cream, jelly, or marmalade. Serve on a glass dish covered with a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin. Choux Croutons for Soup.—Make some Choux paste, spread it out to about jin. thickness, and cut it with a knife into the size of large peas; put these in a sieve, sprinkle them -with flour, shake them well, and then fry in hot lard. When done (they will take about five minutes), drain them in a cloth, and serve with the soup for which thejr are pre- pared. Choux Filled with Cream.— (1) Put 2oz. of butter in a sauce- pan, melt it, and then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water ; mix a very small quantity of sugar with jflb. of flour, and when the water boils throw this in, and stir it very quickly with a wooden spoon. When thoroughly mixed, take the saucepan off the fire, and continue stirring the contents for two minutes ; if done very quickly the mixture will not stick to the saucepan. Leave it for a few minutes, then mix in (one at a time) four eggs, stirring vigorously after each egg is added ; let the paste stand for half-an-hour. Butter a baking-sheet, stir the paste again, then drop it in small quantities all over the buttered sheet, using a table-spoon for the purpose. Brush the Choux over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a brisk oven ; when baked, lay the Choux on another dish or plate until cold. In the meantime, prepare the following cream : Put I pint of milk in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until boiling; crush three macaroons, put them in a basin, and mix with them 3oz. of caster sugar, loz. of flour, and three well-beaten eggs. When the milk comes to the boil, stir in gradually the beaten egg mixture, and continue stirring it a minute or two over the fire, but without letting it boil again ; then take it off, flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence preferred, and turn it out to get cool. Blanched and finely-chopped sweet almonds may be used in place of the macaroons. When cold, cut the Choux (with a pair of scissors) on one side about two-thirds through, the cut to be horizontal, a little above the middle; then, by raising the top a little, hollow out the cakes, and fill them with the prepared cream. Arrange them tastefully on a glass or fancy dish, dust caster sugar over them, and serve. (2) Put i pint of water in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walirat, a small grating of lemon-peel, 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, and 1 pinch of salt; boil these together, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir till thick and cooked. Leave the paste till cold, then work into it (one at a time) sufficient eggs to make it thin enough to drop from a spoon. Put a lump of lard into a deep frying-pan and make it hot, but not quite boiling; then with a spoon drop the paste into it in lumps about the size of a fowl’s egg. When lightly browned and well swollen, take the cakes out, drain them, scoop out a little of the top of each to make a small hollow, and leave them till cold. Whip some cream to a stiff froth, put a small quantity in the hollow of each piece, arrange them in a fancy dish, and serve. Croquenbouclie of Petit Choux Gam is.—Put some Choux paste in a biscuit-bag or paper funnel with the point cut off, leaving a largish hole for the paste to come through; squeeze it out on to a buttered baking-sheet in pieces the size of a large nut, flatten the tops, brush them over with egg, and bake. When they are done, make a small hole in each, and fill it with apricot jam. Boil some sugar to the crack, and line a plain mould (previously oiled) with the Choux dipped in it. When cold, turn the croquenbouclie out of the mould on to a dish with a folded napkin on it, fill with vanilla whipped cream, and serve. CHOW-CHOW.—The meaning of this term, whether Chinese, or from whatever source it may have been derived, is best defined as a blending together of various kinds of foods in pieces. The nearest approach ive have to it is the pickle called “ Piccalilli.” (1) Cut two heads of white cabbage into small pieces, and boil them until quite tender; then take two heads of cauliflower, cut them up, put them into a separate pan, and boil; also lqt. of small onions, £gall. of small tomatoes, twelve small cucumbers, and six roots of celery chopped, all cooked in separate pans. Then put 2galls. of vinegar, 4oz. each of ground mustard and mustard-seed, a small pot of French mustard, 2oz. of turmeric, and loz. of cloves intoTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 383 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Chow-Chow—continued. a pan, and place this over the fire; when it comes to the boil, mix all the vegetables together and pour the liquor over them. Let it get cold, and then put into jars; cover these over, and tie down. (2) Take i peck each of onions and green tomatoes, and sixty gherkins, or small cucumbers, cut them up into very fine slices, and put these into a pan, adding a few more gherkins (whole), together with 1 pint of red and green peppers, and dust salt freely over all, letting them stand for twelve hours ; then add loz. each of mace, mustard-seed, celery-seed, turmeric, and whole cloves, 21b. of coarse brown sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of mustard finely ground, and a stalk of horse- radish very finely grated. Pour over these 0 pints of strong vinegar, set the pan on the fire, and boil for half-an-hour. Put the Chow-Chow into jars, and tie down. (3) Put lgall. of chopped red cabbage and four large onions, minced, into a pan with strong salted water, and let them remain for two hours ; then put them into a brass kettle or enamelled pan, and add 5gall, of strong vinegar, 21b. of brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of allspice, celery-seed, and black pepper, 1 breakfast-cupful of mustard-seed, and 1 table-spoonful of ground mustard. Put the pan on to boil, and let it remain until its contents thicken. Allow it to cool, then place in jars to preserve. (4) Mince 1 peck of green tomatoes, mix \ pint of salt in with them, put them in a pan with a little water, let them stand for twelve hours, and then pour off the water. Chop six small onions and a large head of celery, and mix with lib. • of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful of white pepper, and 1 table- spoonful each of mustard, allspice, and cinnamon. Put these into an enamelled pan in the following order: first a layer of tomatoes, next one of onion and celery, and then one of the spices ; continue this order of laying till all the materials are used up, and then pour over all lgall. of good vinegar. Put the pan on the fire, and cook the tomatoes slowly until they are done. Cauliflower, cabbage, or cucumbers may also be added, and a little grated horseradish gives a nice flavour to it. If to be kept, it must be put into jars and tied down. CHOWDER. — It is probable that this term was introduced into America by the Chinese, and has there- fore some analogy to Chow-Chow. By some authorities Chowder is said to be compounded of salted pork, fried with onions, arranged in alternate layers with mashed potatoes, and having slices of turbot, or other fish, in the centre, the whole having been well seasoned and flavoured with aromatic and savoury spices, wine (claret especially) and ketchup, and stewed. Another authority declares that Chowder is made in a hundred different modes, but the boatmen of the Harlem River are generally accredited with the production of the best dishes of it. Biscuits and various other ingredients are occasionally added, according to the taste of the maker. For receipts see under the special headings, as Clams, Fish, Lob- ster, &c. CHRISTMAS PARE.—The times change, and we change with the times, but there are certain land-marks still left which, in a modified form, indicate and preserve the memory of times that were, although the practices and customs of that time are toned down to suit modern tastes and acquirements. The “ brave days of old,” if rude and unrefined, were at least distinguished by a hearty and profuse hospitality. During the Christmas holidays the barons and knights kept open house, and for a fortnight and upwards nothing was heard of but revelry and feasting. The grand feast of the occasion, however, given by the feudal chief to Lis friends and retainers, took place, with great pomp and circumstance, on Christmas Day. Among the many dishes served upon this occasion would be, first and foremost, the boar’s head. See Fig. 467. Wild boars are said to have been denizens of the huge forests of Great Britain up to about the reign of Henry II.. after which time they appear to have been annihilated. Charles I. made some sort of an attempt to re-stock the New Forest with them, but signally failed. William Christmas Fare—continued. the Conqueror passed a very stern decree, that any person killing a wild boar without the royal consent was liable to the penalty of having his eyes put out. But in this country wild boars are of the past, and the tame boar is deemed an acceptable substitute, contribut- ing its head with much pomp, ceremony, and fictitious Fig. 467. Boar’s Head with Rosemary. admiration to the flattering guests. His paler face is duly blackened with soot and fat, to give him the ferocious aspect of an uncivilised native; but the slaughter of the innocent tame sucking-pig may be considered to have reduced the wild boar and its dangerous hunting to an absurdly low ebb. The pageant of serving the boar’s head is amusingly described in some of our old books, as heralded by a jubilant flourish of trumpets and accompanied by strains of merry minstrelsy; it was carried on a dish of gold or silver — no meaner metal would suffice — into the banqueting-hall, borne in the sacred hands of the carver, who, as he advanced with stately step at the head of an impressed procession of nobles, knights, and ladies, sang “ The Boar’s Head Chant,” accompanied in a solemn chorus by his followers. The words of the first verse are as follow: The boar's head in hand bring I, With garlands gay and rosemary; I pray you all sing merrily, Que estis in convivio. Be glad both more and less, For this hath ordained our steward So cheer you all this Christmas— The boar’s head and mustard. Chorus—Caput apri defero, Reddens laudes Domino. As the leader of the procession, bearing the “ brawner’s head,” approached the table, he deposited the noble dish in its place with great gravity, whilst the “nobles, knights, and faire ladyes,” arranged themselves at the board. Mustard sauce was an indispensable of the Christmas table, for we find in an ancient book of instruction for the service of the royal table at this season, “ first set forth mustard with brawn; take your knife in your hand, and cut brawn in the dish as it lieth, and lay on your sovereign’s trencher, and—see there he mustard.” Next in importance to the boar’s head came the peacock. To prepare this for the table as then dii'ected was a task entailing no little labour and skill; but this was an evident necessity, for, except as an ornament, or excuse for something more savoury within it, the flesh does not at any time appear to have commanded much admiration. The directions for its preparation as given in a very ancient book on cookery, directs that the skin shall be first carefully stripped off with the plumage adhering. The bird is then roasted as an ordinary fowl. When done and partially cooled, it was sewn up again in its skin and feathers, its beak gilt, and thus sent to table. See Fig. 468. Sometimes the whole body was covered with leaf gold, and a piece of cotton,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 384 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Christinas Pare—continued. saturated in some sort of spirit, placed in his beak, and lighted before the carver commenced operations. What could be more simple and plain ! But we are informed by one who pronounces the peacock “food for lovers, and meat for lords,” that the interior of the bird was stuffed with spices and sweet herbs, basted with yolk of egg, and served with plenty of rich gravy, which would be made, on great occasions, of as many as three fat wethers, bruised and boiled down to make gravy for a single bird. Fig. 468. Peacock dressed for Christmas Banquet (Old Style). The peacock was not served by common hands—the privilege was reserved for the lady guests “ most dis- tinguished by birth or beauty,” the due selection of whom was not calculated to produce harmony, especially as the queen of all was entrusted with the bearing of the dish, and those who were detailed for carrying portions to the guests followed in a troop behind her. After setting the peacock down before the master of the house, or his most honoured guest, the ladies stood round to receive portions for all; and as one peacock often was made to serve a hundred or more guests, the piece at the dis- posal of each would have been very small, but this would be made up with an ample supply of thick, soupy gravy. Perhaps this custom accounts for our first dinner service of soup, the peacock being conspicuous by its absence. On some occasions, however, the bird was served in a pie containing a variety of other things as well. This would increase the quantity for serving, and afford some greater substantiality to an otherwise very meagre dish. At one end of this peacock pie the plumed crest ap- peared above the crust, and at the other his tail was unfolded in all its glory. It was a handsome dish, no doubt, and knight errants took the opportunity of swearing in the presence of so much feminine beauty to undertake any perilous enterprise that came in their way, and succour lovely women in distress after the most J approved chevalier fashion. The oath was generally j taken as “ by cock and pie,” an expression which would now-a-days render the oath absurd. “ Geese, capons, pheasants drenched with amber grease, and pies of carp’s tongues ” helped to furnish the table ; but there was one other dish which was held indispen- sable, and that was frumante, frumenty, or furmety, as it was indiscriminately called. It was concocted in this way: “ Take clean wheat and bray it in a mortar, that the hulls be all gone off, and seethe it till it brn’st, and take it up, and let it cool; and take clean, fresh broth, and sweet milk of almonds, or sweet milk of kine, and temper it all; and take the yolks of eggs. Boil it a little, and set it down, and mess it forth with fat venison or fresh mutton.” Christmas Pare—continued. Venison was seldom served without frumenty, but, sweetened with sugar, frumenty was at one time a favourite dish of itself, and is not unknown at the pre- sent time in some parts of the country, where it is cus- tomary to flavour with lemon, or spices, and add chopped raisins and candied peel to the softened wheat. Mince pies were popular at Christmas so early as the | fifteenth century, when they were known as “ mutton pies ”; but the custom of making the mince with neat’s tongue instead of mutton prevailed somewhere about the end of the sixteenth century, and the old mutton pie got mixed up with Christmas pie, or one with the other in some manner or other, until we have both mince pies and Christmas pies. Let Christmas boast her customary treat, A mixture strange of suet, currants, meat, Where various tastes combine, the greasy and the sweet. The Christmas pie has, since it attained its majority, been a favourite savoury, and a convivial poet sings of it: Without the door let sorrow lie, And if for cold it hap to die, We’ll bury it in a Christmas pie, And evermore be merry! A very amusing custom was that of watching the Christmas pie, which doubtless gave rise to many an alarming manifestation, especially as the company con- cerned were sure to select the most timid of their set for the task, and the most out-of-the-way place for the guardianship of the pie. Herrick’s jovial vicar sings: Come guard the Christmas pie, That the thief, though ne’er so sly, With his flesh hooks don’t come nigh To catch it From him who all alone sits there, Having his eyes still in his ear, And a deal of nightly fear To watch it. About this time, too, we read of plum porridge—the infant plum pudding—for the same author writes: At Christmas time— Then if you would send up the brawner’s head, Sweet rosemary and bays around it spread; His foaming tusks let some large pippin grace, Or ’midst these thund’ring spears an orange place; Sauce, like himself, offensive to its foes, The roguish mustard, dangerous to the nose; Sack, and the well-spiced Hippocras the wine, Wassail the bowl with ancient ribbands fine, Porridge with plumbs, and turkeys with the chine. Plum pottage then was an indispensable of the Christ- mas table, and was made of chopped raisins, currants, prunes, figs, spices, candied peels, and bruised wheat, milk, butter, and eggs. The mutton-broth constituent of it disappeared, and wheat-flour gave place to bruised wheat, and minced suet crept in as well, making a stiff pudding, or “ potting,” which certainly agrees with modern tastes better than a savoury-sweet slop. In almost every comity—nay, almost every district— are to be found local dishes and customs. In most parts of Yorkshire “ goose-pie” is a favourite food of the season, and it is very good eating too, as may be proved by manufacturing a sample from one of the receipts for this pie given under its special heading. The Yule Dough, or Dow, is one of those ancient em- blems that have been outgrown by custom. It was a cake made in the shape of a flattened baby, with currants, cloves, or peppercorns for eyes, which bakers used for- merly to manufacture, and present to their customers as little remembrances of the time of year, just as tallow- chandlers used to present coloured Christmas candles. But the great revolution of time now requires a Christmas- box for the servant, and nothing less—a complimentFowl _as usually sent from Poulterers’. Position Required for Roasting. First Operation with Trussing-needle. Mode of Folding Wings on Back. Strings as seen on Back—that Trans- fixing the Wings passing through folded-down Flap of Neck. TRUSSING POULTRY.385 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Christmas Fare—continued. that the master is expected to return to every mortal creature that earns a living in his neighbourhood, and calls, or has called, at his house in behalf of his own or his employer’s business. The boar’s head and peacock have gone by the board, but we have yet sif-loins, turkeys, geese, sucking-pigs, plum puddings, mince pies, and a variety of cakes and other delicacies, so that there seems to be no reason why we should not observe and keep up the great and joyous season with as much heartiness and vigour as ever was in the days of yore. Happily, too, the Lord of Misrule has in a measure given way to the mistletoe-bough and its mystic rights ; and Christmas-trees and snap-dragon for children, dancing and round games for adults, have superseded such ab- surdities as dipping for nuts and apples, foot plough, hot cockles, and blind-man’s-buff. An extensive variety of receipts suitable for this season will be found under various headings. Christmas Pudding's.—(1) Break six eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites. Take 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich mincemeat (if it has become too dry for pies so much the better, as it will make a nicer pudding), put the yolks of six eggs into it, and beat them well with it for three or four minutes. Beat the whites to a froth, and have ready 6oz. of flour. Add to the pudding first a little flour, and then a little beaten white of egg', and so on alternately till both flour and egg are used up, beating each addition well in. Butter the inside of a good-sized mould, and put the pudding into it, allowing room for it to swell, cover it firmly, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling rapidly for five hours. (2) Well wash and dry ljlb. of currants, stone lilb. of raisins, slice and cut rather small 6oz. of candied peel, skin and chop as fine as possible ljlb. of beef-suet, rub through a fine wire sieve Jib. of breadcrumbs, and blanch and chop fine Joz. of sweet almonds. Put all these into a large earthenware pan, add to them fib. of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and lilb. of moist sugar, and stir well together with a wooden spoon till they are thoroughly well mixed. Beat up seven eggs and stir into them by degrees 3 table-spoonfuls each of brandy, sherry, and noyeau ; then mix this into the fruit, suet, flour, &c., in the pan, and continue stirring till all are well incor- porated. Pill two or three buttered basins or moulds with this, and if they are not fitted with covers tie cloths firmly over them, plunge them into boiling water, and let them boil fast for five hours. (3) Well wash and dry lib. of currants, stone lHb. of raisins, cut small or into slices fib. of candied peel, skin lflb. of beef- suet and chop it as fine as possible, and put all into a large earthenware pan, adding lflb. of breadcrumbs rubbed through a fine wire-sieve, 2Jlb. of flour, and lib. of sugar. Mix all these together thoroughly with a strong wooden spoon, then stir in six eggs well beaten with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and continue stirring till thoroughly well mixed. Butter a mould or basin, fill it, tie a cloth firmly over it, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil fast for twelve hours. (4) Put 12oz. of sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, and work them in with 8oz. of flour; then rub in 12oz. of finely-shred beef-suet, add 8oz. of picked, washed, and dried currants, 4oz. each of chopped candied orange- and citron-peels, lflb. of raisins cut in halves and stoned, a small quantity of powdered ginger, half a nutmeg grated, and work well in with a spoon nine or ten well-whipped eggs and a wineglassful of brandy. Mix well for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so, until the whole of the dry ingredients are moistened and incorporated. Put the pudding into a mould or basin with a cloth tied over, or put it into a cloth, and boil for six hours in a saucepan of water. Place it on a dish, pour round a little brandy or brandy sauce, and serve. This pudding, if not required for use the same day as made, should be tied up in a cloth, hung in a cool cellar, and before serving boiled again for about two hours; it will remain good for a month or so after being first boiled. (5) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of grated soft breadcrumbs into a bowl, and mix in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely-shred beef- suet, 3 teacupfuls each of washed and dried currants and stoned raisins, 1 teacupful of candied citron-peel cut up into very thin slices, 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar, and 1 salt- spoonful each of grated nutmeg and salt. Beat five eggs in Christmas Fare—continued. a basin, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour made into a thin batter with milk ; add also £ wineglassful of brandy and stir this into the dry mixture. The ingredients should be added in the order given, and each well worked in before another one is added. Put the pudding into a buttered basin, secure it with a floured cloth tied tightly over, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil (or it may be placed on a trivet in the saucepan and steamed) for four hours. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over wine sauce, and serve. (6) Stone lib. of raisins, put them into a bowl, pour over them 1 wineglassful of brandy, and let them stand while the rest of the ingredients are being prepared ; pick over lib. of currants, wash them thoroughly in plenty of cold water, rub them dry on a towel, and then toss in a sieve with a little flour to separate the stems from them ; free lib. of beef-suet from skin, and chop it fine, with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour ; cut into thin slices 2oz. of citron and loz. each of candied lemon- and orange- peel ; grate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice of one orange and one lemon; pour boiling water on 4oz. of shelled almonds, let them remain in it until the skins become moist, then rub these off the nuts with a clean dry towel, and cut each nut into three or four slices ; grate one nutmeg, sift it into lib. of sugar, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and crumb lib. of dry bread from the inside of a stale loaf. Mix together all these ingredients with the hands, adding to them eight eggs, 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry, and just enough cream or rich milk to slightly moisten the pudding. Butter and flour a tin pudding-mould, shaking out all superfluous flour, fill the mould to within lin. of the top, lay a round of buttered white paper over the pudding, cover the mould so tightly that no water can penetrate while it is boiling, and fasten the cover securely ; then set it in sufficient boiling water to reacli two- thirds up the side, and boil steadily for ten hours, replenishing the water as it boils away. The mould must be perfectly water-tight, or the pudding will be spoilt. The mould must not be opened until the pudding is about to be served. Plum puddings made in this way will keep for a long time in a cool, dry place. Before using them the mould must be placed in boiling water and boiled for two hours. Serve the pudding hot, turned from the mould upon a hot dish; just before sending it to table pour over a wineglassful of rum or brandy, set fire to the spirits, and send the pudding to the table blazing (see Fig. 469). Serve with rum or brandy sauce. (7) Put 31b. of stoned raisins, or 21b. of raisins and lib. of well-washed and dried currants into a bowl, and mix them up with 8oz. each of sifted breadcrumbs, finely-chopped mixed candied-peel, and moist sugar, 1 teacupful of flour, half that quantity of milk, 21b. of shred beef-suet, 1 table-spoonful of ground mixed spice, and a small quantity of salt, and stir in ten or eleven well-beaten eggs and ^ gill of milk. Pour the mixture into a buttered basin or plain mould, cover it over on the top first with greased paper and then with a wet cloth, tying it securely; put it in a saucepan of water over a good fire, and boil for ten hours. Turn it out when done, dredge over a little caster sugar, and serve. A little brandy added to the mixture while mixing is an improvement, but it may be dispensed with. (8) Chop and rub through a sieve 31b. of beef-suet, put it into a bowl, and work it into an equal quantity of flour; then add and mix in the order given, thoroughly incorporating one 2 L386 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Christmas Fare—continued. ingredient before another is added, 21b. of stoned and minced raisins, lib. of picked, washed, and dried currants, 1 dessert- spoonful of powdered ginger, and a small quantity each of | salt and grated nutmeg, and beat in lib. of treacle, J teacupful of milk, 1 teacupful of brandy, and eight beaten eggs. When all these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, put the mixture into a basin or tie it up in a cloth, and boil in a saucepan of water over a good fire for about ten hours. Take it out, and it is ready for use. These puddings should be boiled several days before being wanted, and then only heated through before being served. (9) Put 6oz. of breadcrumbs and Jib. of flour into a basin, mix in Jib. of beef-suet finely shred and rubbed through a sieve, and add Jib. each of picked, washed, and dried currants and stoned raisins, 2oz. of sultana raisins, and 3oz. each of chopped candied orange- and citron-peels. When they are well mixed, grate over half a nutmeg, and stir in 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, five well-beaten eggs, and J wineglassful of brandy. Put the pudding into a buttered basin or plain mould, with a floured or damped cloth tied over it securely, or tie the pudding simply up in a wet cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of water over the fire, and boil for about six hours. Turn it out carefully on to a dish, pour round a little arrowroot or sweet sauce or brandy, and serve. The brandy may be warmed and ignited a few minutes before serving if desired. It is advisable to keep a kettle of boiling water ready to fill up the saucepan as the water wastes, for it is most im- portant that the rapid boiling should not stop even for an instant while the puddings are in the saucepan. CHUB (Fr. Cliabot; /Sj). Coto; Ger. Kaulbarsch).—It is stated by a great authority that the Chub affords excellent sport to the angler; but to those who fish in our rivers for something beyond sport, this fish is virtually worthless. It belongs to the family of the Cyprinidcp, and is of the same genus as the roach and dace, and may be styled a handsome fish, being blue- black on the back, changing gradually into silver-white on the belly, and marked about the cheeks and gill- covers with orange-gold. It is found in many British rivers, and some few on the European and American Continents, and frequents deep holes in ponds and canals, or a clear rushing stream. See Fig. 470. When full grown, the Chub is 12in. to 15in. long, and weighs from 41b. to 511). The flesh of the smaller Chub resembles that of the carp, and they are therefore usually cooked in the same way; hut to say the best of them they are not very palatable, being watery, taste- less, and bony. Besides this, as the flesh is exceedingly apt to take a yellow tinge by cooking, in spite of lemon- juice and other precautions used by cooks to preserve the meat white, they are held in very low favour in the kitchen, and are mostly stuffed and roasted, baked, or broiled. Baked Chub.—Scrape off the scales, remove the gills, clean and wash the fish thoroug-hly, and put it into a fish-kettle of boiling water, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a large lump of salt, and a small quantity of fennel. Boil slowly until tender, then take the fish out and drain it well, lay it in a pie-dish, strew plenty of chopped parsley -.over, put two or three lumps of butter on the top, and place it in a Chub —continued. brisk oven. In fifteen minutes take the fish out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, pour the butter out of the baking-pan over it, and serve. Broiled Chub.—Clean a Chub, make two or three incisions across its back, brush it over well with a paste-brush dipped in warm butter, dust it over with salt, powdered thyme, and winter savoury. Lay it on a broiler, and broil it over a clear fire, turning it when done sufficiently on one side. When cooked, place the Chub on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper on a hot dish; garnish it with parsley and out lemon, and serve. Roasted Chub.—Remove the scales and gills, clean and thoroughly wash the Chub, and season the inside of it with finely-chopped sweet herbs, such as rosemary, parsley, thyme, and winter savoury, &c.; then fix it on a spit and roast it before a clear fire, dredging with salt, and basting con- tinually with butter and vinegar. When the Chub is cooked, nicely coloured, and tender, put it on a hot dish over a folded napkin, or a fancy dish-paper, place a few sprigs of parsley round it, and serve with a suitable sauce in a sauce- boat. CHUFA.-—In central Spain a very refreshing acid drink called “ Orgeat ” is made from the tubers of the Cliufa, or Tiger-nut (Cyperus esculentus). The tubers are first soaked in water for two or three days, then pounded, and the liquor resulting subjected to cooling with ice. CHUMP CHOPS.-—See Chops and Mutton. CHUPPATEE.—This is a kind of plain biscuit eaten by all the lower classes in India, where the paste is flattened in the hands and cooked on sticks laid across a rude fire, made by digging a slanting hole in the earth. Europeans resident in India have them prepared as follows: Rub loz. of butter till quite fine in 21b. of flour, put in a saltspoonful of salt, and stir in sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. Dip a cloth in hot water and roll the paste in it, leaving it for ten minutes; afterwards knead it, and leave for ten minutes longer. Divide the paste into small balls about the size of a walnut, and roll them out very thin; prick them all over with a fork, lay on a sheet of white paper spread over a baking-sheet, and bake in a brisk oven. They are very nice served hot and eaten with butter. CHURNING.—-See Butter. CHUTNEY—As an Indian word this would probably be more often spelled “ Chutnee,” but custom has allowed us to introduce the term, as well as all that it embraces, into our own language; therefore has it undergone certain modifications to meet British tastes and requirements. Chutney proper, as manufactured in India, is a powerful condiment, prepared by mixing a variety of fruits, sugar, vinegar, and spices in such an able manner that no particular flavour predominates. A very admirable Chutney is that made by the Begum Company, of London. The fruit mostly found in Chutney is apple, but capital varieties will be found under Elderberries, Goose- berries, Mangoes, Tamarinds, and Tomatoes. (1) Remove the peels and cores from 21b. of green cooking apples, chop them up, put them into a saucepan with 3 break- fast-cupfuls of vinegar, and boil to a pulp. Turn the pulp out into a basin, and when cold mix in loz. each of chillies and garlic, 2oz. of shallots, all finely chopped, loz. of ground ginger, 2oz. of salt, 4oz. each of mustai’d-seed and tamarinds, 12oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, and lib. of moist sugar, and stir well. Put the Chutney into bottles, place them near the fire for several days, cork them up, and keep in a cold place until wanted. This is always better for keeping. (2) Core, peel, and quarter Jib. of apples, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of vinegar, and boil to a pulp ; then remove the saucepan from the fire, and let the pulp cool. Stone Jib. of raisins, pound them in a mortar, and mix them up with Jib. of moist sugar and 2oz. each of garlic and mustard-seed, also pounded. Add 2oz. of ground ginger andTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 387 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Chutney—continued. half the quantity of cayenne, pound the whole well together, mixing-, them thoroughly, and turn the mass into the saucepan with the apples. When they are all thoroughly incorporated, put the Chutney into an earthenware jar, and keep this in a warm place until the next day; then put the Chutney into small jars, tie them down, and it is ready for use. Chutney prepared in this way will remain g'ood for a couple of years. CIDER (Fr. Cidre; Ger. Cider; Ital. Sidro, or Cidro; Span. Sidra, or Cidra).—The origin of Cider, or “ Wine of Apples,” as Pliny styles it somewhere about the commence- ment of the Christian era, appears to be lost in the dark- ness of ages ■ it was known to the ancient Hebrews, and is recorded as a favourite drink of King Solomon. Some writers credit Cider with Noah’s oft-quoted mistake, and even go so far as to express a belief that the evils of drunkenness were plainly indicated in the ban placed on the forbidden fruit of the Garden of Eden. Whether this be so or not, or whether the forbidden fruit was an apple or not, it is quite certain that Cider can lay claim to a very ancient history, and deserved universal popularity, which same popularity has fallen off in a great measure in this country, probably owing to taxation and the neglect of the orchard rather than to taste. John Evelyn tells us in his “Sylva,” published in 1664. that “ It was by the plain Industry of one Harris (a Fruiterer to King Henry the Eighth) that the Fields, and Environs of about thirty Towns, in Kent onely, were planted with Fruit, to the universal benefit, and general Improvement of that County to this day.” And then he goes on to explain that ‘‘ as by the noble Example of my Lord Scudamor, and of some'otlier publick spirited Gentle- men in those parts, all Hereford-shire is become, in a manner, but one intire Orchard : And when his Majesty [Charles II.] shall once be pleas’d, to command the Planting But of some Acres, for the best Cider-fruit, at every of his Royal Mansions, amongst other of his most laudable Magnificences ; Noblemen, wealthy Purchasers, and Citizens will (doubtless) follow the Example, till the pre- ference of Cider, wholesome, and more natural Drinks, do quite vanquish Hopps, and banish all other Drogues of that nature.” The foregoing famous chronicler shows himself to have been a firm believer in the virtues of Cider, for he further says: “ It is good of a thousand kinds, proper for the cure of many Diseases, a kind vehicle for any sanative vegetable or other medicinal ingredients ; that of Pippins, a specific for the consumption, and, generally, all strong and pleasant Cider excites and cleanses the stomach, strengthens digestion, and infallibly frees the Kidneys and Bladder from breeding the Gravel and Stone, especially if it be of the genuine Ircliin-field Redstrake; not omit- ting how excellently it holds out good many years to improvement, if full-body’d and strong, even in the largest and most capacious vessels, so as when for ordinary drink, our Citizens and honest countrymen shall come to drink it moderately diluted (as now they do six-shilling Beer in London and other places), that they will find it mar- vellously conduce to health; and labouring People, where it is so drank, affirm that they are more strengthen’d for hard work by such Cider than by the very best beer.” If such was the accredited character of Cider, it is not surprising that its popularity was at one time unequalled by any other beverage known, nor that in the days of heavy taxation it should have been made to bear the greatest burden. Townsend, in his “Manual of Dates,” in- forms us that “ In addition to the hereditary duty on Cider granted by 12 Charles II. (1660), a duty of 4s. per hogshead was levied by 13 William III. (1701), upon all Cider and perry made in England.” These duties, having undergone various modifications, were repealed in 1830. The year 1763 and - following saw the highest rate of taxation, which continued up to the time when it was removed altogether, the result being, as already explained, destruc- tive to the industry. Cicler became an expensive drink, 1 Cider —continued. and was, therefore, forsaken by the working classes. French wines took the place of Cider at the tables of the wealthy, and as orchards became rapidly at a dis- count, they were dismantled without mercy, until it is now an admitted fact that there are not sufficient apples grown in England to meet the demand. England lias long since yielded her Cider-making priority to other nations, notably France, United States, and Canada, either country producing many times the quantity of Cider produced in Great Britain from either home-grown or imported fruit. The kind of apple best suited for yielding Cider has long been a subject of dispute; but as no positive decision has even yet been arrived at, it is not improbable that all apples are suitable, and that the rough or Cider apple, as it is called, is more generally used because it is a much commoner kind than the sweeter varieties, and grows in the hedgerows of Cider countries without much cultivation or that loss from depredators that the unguarded position would appear to invite. Herefordshire, Worcestershire, Gloucestershire, Dorset- shire, Devonshire, and some other counties claim pre- eminence for their Cider, to which they are in a measure entitled; but it is a question how far the quality of the Cider produced depends upon the county in which the fruit was grown, the soil, the kind of apple, or the process and skill of manufacture. The first act of Cider-making is to gather the fruit when it is ripe, and then to select that alone which is sound, for rotten apples are apt to impart disagreeable flavours. Having sorted the apples carefully, they must Fig. 471. Cider-mill. be crushed so that the juice cells may be burst. For this purpose various machines have been invented; but the most satisfactory of all is one containing two wooden fluted rollers, fed by a hopper, and worked by the turning of a crank (Fig. 471). The juice that runs from the Cider-mill should be caught in a pan or other suitable vessel, and emptied at once into the fermenting-vat. The apples should be so crushed up that no piece larger than a filbert should be allowed to pass through the mill. To ensure this, it is sometimes advisable to pass the apples a second time through the mill. As the pieces fall, they may be caught on a coarse cane sieve resting on the pan used to collect the freed juice. The next work is the pressing of the fruit, which should immediately follow the crushing; but some Cider-makers allow the crushed fruit to stand, before pressing, for ten 2 l 2388 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cider—continued. or fifteen hours in lightly-covered wooden tubs, in order, as they allege, that the Cider may take a rich colour by the “ brown-reddening ” of the exposed torn surfaces of the apples. But this process would appear to be un- necessary for the purpose explained, as the juice, if pressed out immediately after crushing, would itself take colour according to its quality and roughness. Un- doubtedly some object would be gained, namely, that of extracting more sugar from the marc (crushed fruit) if the crushed apples were covered with water and allowed to macerate; but this does not apply to the juice already freed, which should be put into the fermenting-tuns at once, and set fermenting. The following remarks on fermentation, by a noted authority on the subject, are worth considerable atten- tion. He says: “ It is not our purpose to touch here upon that part of the process of Cider-making which is included in fermentation until we get to that particular feature—of which so much has been written and said, and yet so little is actually known—beyond just to caution Cider-makers that fermentation will set in at any time Fig. 472. Box Cider-press. after the juice of the fruit is eliminated. Exposure to the air has of itself little or nothing to do with the setting- up of alcoholic fermentation, and therefore it will be mqre correct to speak of ‘ crushing ’ as the act responsible for starting a fermentation, which cannot take place so long as the juice remains within the cells of the apple, and the skin remains unbroken and sound.” It is imperative, therefore, for the production of good Cider, that all the juice should be extracted from the fruit by excessive pressure, and this can only be effected by powerful presses manufactured for the purpose (see Eig. 472). Some presses are plain, without a box (see Fig. 473). The crushed pulp is wrapped in hair-cloth, or coarse canvas bags, and after being drained into suitable receivers, the full bags are set one upon the other under the press. The juice which runs away at first is muddy, but afterwards it runs bright and clear and ready for the fermenting-tun. It is a common practice amongst farmers and others who make cider in large or small quantities, to throw away the pressed marc, or use it to feed pigs; but economical Cider manufacturers, knowing that the 'marc For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fig. 474. Domestic Fermenting-tun. with a cloth; the juice will soon begin to show signs of fermenting (see Fermentation). Sometimes Cider is fermented in closed barrels, with the bung-hole upwards Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cider—continued. still contains a large quantity of sugar and apple flavour, break up the pressed cakes and pour water over them, let the fruit soak, or macerate, for twenty-four hours, Fig. 473. Cider-press without Box and then use the liquor to make an inferior Cider for qualifying better and stronger kinds. The fermenting- tun should be filled nearly to the brim, and coveredTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 389 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cider—continued. and the bung left out; but the fermenting-tun used for the manufacture of British wines is by far the more convenient (see Fig. 474). When active fermentation has ceased, or subsided nearly to cessation, the Cider should be drawn off into very clean, fresh casks. This generally induces a fresh fermentation, which may be slight or very active, and in either case demands a repetition of the racking. It is customary in some parts of the world to fumigate the cask before running in the Cider, by burning inside it a strip of linen coated with sulphur; this is kindled at one end and lowered into the cask through the bung- liole, the bung being immediately replaced. The object of this operation, called “ stumming,” is to prevent the Cider from “ fretting ” or undergoing the second fermentation mentioned; but that it effects this purpose there appears to be good scientific and technical reasons to doubt. After racking finally, the Cider is run into store- casks, and stowed in a cellar, or other cool place, where a low and regular temperature can be maintained. Here it may be left to mature, or “ ripeii,” and by the following spring the Cider should be in good condition and fit for drinking or bottling. The alcoholic strength of Cider necessarily varies according to the quality of the apples and the amount of “ liquor ” (water) added to the juice, but the average percentage of alcohol would be 9f. See Alcohol. Refining Cider.—The following' receipt has been adopted: Take some new sweet milk, and let it stand for a night; then skim it, and, in the proportion of 1 pint of milk to a 9gall. cask of Cider, pour it into the cask, stir it well up with the Cider, and let it settle. It will give a richness to the Cider, and make it pure and fine. The following receipts give the most important uses to which Cider is adapted: Boiled Cider (American).—Take any quantity of new sweet Cider, let it boil steadily until it is reduced to three-fourths of the quantity put in the pan, and skim it as the scum rises. Let it get cool and bottle it, corking the bottles well, and sealing' the corks. Cider not more than one or two days old is best for boiling. If this boiled Cider be kept a long time, a mould may perhaps form on the surface, but it will not spoil the Cider, though the mould must be removed. Bottle Cider.—Select 1 ;lb. of tart apples ; grate them, and put equal portions into two quart champagne bottles. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and spring water until the bottles are full; cork and tie them down, then set in a warm place, and the Cider will be ready for use in about three days’ time. A great improvement is the addition of a slice of quince to each bottle. Bottled Cider.—See Bottling. Champagne Cider.—This is the name given to a preparation of lemonade syrup, flavoured with essence of apples and pears, coloured with sugar colouring. It is only a very poor substitute for the real effervescent bottled Cider. Cider Cake. —(1) Rub Jib. of butter into 111b. of sifted flour and a teaspoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia. Stir well together, with lib. of moist sugar and a little powdered spice, and moisten the whole with warm Cider until it forms a stiff dough. Put this into buttered baking- tins, and bake in a quick oveu for half-an-hour, or until the cakes turn easily in the tins. (2) Mix together 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 teaspoon- ful of allspice, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; then add lib. of butter, lib. caster sugar, three eggs, beaten separately, and sufficient Cider to form a stiffish dough. "When thoroughly incorporated, put into shallow tins, and bake. Cider Cocktail.—Half-fill a pint glass with broken ice, mix in 2 drops each of essences of lemon and gentian, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of dandelion; pour in a bottle of Cider, and drink through straws. Cider Cup.— (1) Put 1 pint of Cider into a claret-jug, add to it 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, the rind of a lemon pared off very thin, half an orange in thin slices, Cider—continued. and three thin slices of cucumber, if in season; sweeten to taste, add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-pounded ice, and serve before the ice is quite melted. A little grated nutmeg and a liqueur-glassful of curagoa may be added if desired, and are a great improvement. (2) Pour J pint of boiling water over Jib. of loaf sugar, and when it is all dissolved and the liquor cool add 2 wine- glassfuls each of brandy and cura^oa, a slice of cucumber, and the juice and peel (rubbed on sugar) of a lemon. Let it stand a little, and then pour in 2 large bottles, or quarts, of Cider, and about lqt. of broken ice. It should be consumed soon after making, as it loses its strength very quickly. Cider Jelly.—(1) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in cold water for two hours; then put 2J pints of Cider into a pan, and when it boils pour it on the gelatine. Stir in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, mix well, and strain through a tammy into a mould. Let it cool in ice for six or eight hours, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve garnished with biscuits and whipped cream. (2) Take some good, ripe apples, cut them in quarters, put them in a pan, and pour over sufficient sweet Cider to cover them. Put the pan on the fire, and boil until the apples are done; then strain the contents through a sieve. Do not press the apples, but let the liquor drain through of itself. Measure the liquor, and to every pint stir in lib. of caster sugar ; then put the pan on the fire again with the liquor and sugar, and boil for from twenty to thirty minutes. Let it get cold, and serve in glasses (see Fig. 475). Cider Punch..—Mix in a jar Jib. of sugar with 1 gill of water and J pint of white wine, stirring until the sugar is dissolved; then cut two lemons into slices, put them in the jar, add a lump of ice, and pour in lqt. of champagne Cider. The punch will then be ready to serve in glasses. Cider Vinegar.—Put ljlb. of rye-flour into a basin, and mix it up with a little vinegar to make it sour; then make it into a thick paste by adding warm water, and put it into a barrel of Cider. Shake the cask well, stirring the Cider with a stick; set the cask in a warm place, and in about ten days it will be vinegar, and fit for use. Strain it into bottles, and cork them down. It will keep for a long time. Imitation Cider.—It is to be feared that this drink is more generally known in large towns, especially London, than the genuine fermented juice of the apple. Its only claim to con- sideration is that it is harmless. To every pound of sugar add Joz. of tartaric acid, 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and lgall. of water. After fermentation has subsided, stir in sufficient artificial apple flavouring to taste. Imitation Cider Brandy. — This is sometimes made with apple flavouring dissolved in rectified spirits of wine. The proportions generally used are : loz. of apple flavouring and Joz. of pear flavouring to lib. of gum arabic, diluted with 9galls. or lOgalls. of rectified spirits of wine. Mulled Cider. — Take three eggs, whisk them well, and add sufficient sugar to tone down the acidity of the Cider that is to be added. Boil lqt. of Cider, and when the eggs are beaten light, pour the Cider over them, stirring briskly. Put all this back in the pan, and stir it till it boils again; then serve it hot in glasses. CINCHONA.—The bark of the Cinchona flava is sometimes used in the manufacture of bitters.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 390 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t c., referred to, sec under their special heads. CINNAMON (Fr. Cannelle; Ger. Zimmt ; Ital. Oannella; Sp. Canela).—This is the inner bark of shoots sprouting from the truncated stock of the Cinnamomum zeylanicum, and is imported from Ceylon, or should be; but, unfortunately, this spice admits of considerable adulteration, and finds a coarser, much less expensive substitute in a tree of a lower order, called the “ Cinna- mon cassia,” or Chinese Cinnamon. The principal defect in this adulteration is that it is not so sweet or spicily flavoured, otherwise the resemblance is so very close that confectioners frequently use cassia in preference. When the Dutch held possession of Ceylon, they occasionally made havoc amongst the Cinnamon-trees by burning them, in order that the price might be kept up by a scarcity in the market. This was a rather dangerous practice, for although the bark when stripped is renewed, it takes three years to complete the growth, and by that time the tree is possibly somewhat exhausted by the excessive germinal energy required of it for the repair of the lost bark, and from a practice -encouraged by the Cingalese of expressing a camphorous gum from the roots. “There are points of interest,” says Kettner, “about Cinnamon in connection with old cookery, and three of these may be noted ” : The first is that when we hear of “ sweet powder,” or poudre douce, in the dainty dishes of our ancestors, this means a mixture of sugar and Cinnamon. Some recent writers having seen this powder mentioned as pulvis dulcis, have misread it pulvis ducis and have rendered it poudre de due, or “ duke’s powder.” The more probable corruption would be from poudre douce to douce poudre, and thence to “ duke’s ” (douhee) powder. The next note of interest concerns cameline sauce, which was a great favourite in the Elizabethan age, and contained Cinnamon amongst other ingredients. The composition is given as equal parts of ground Cin- namon, ginger, cloves, and cardamom, mixed with three or four times the quantity of new breadcrumbs, and the whole wetted down with herb vinegar. “ According to old English receipts,” Kettner tells us, “ dating from the time of Chaucer, it was made of currants, kernels of nuts, crusts of bread, ginger, cloves, flour of Cinnamon, and salt, brayed well and mixed with vinegar,” and that the origin of the name cameline has been long a vexed ques- tion amongst French cooks, and proceeds at some length to account for its connection with Cinnamon through the French canelle. Without following the lead of the ag- grieved foreigners, it will be sufficient to observe that many of the names applied to dishes would be vexed questions if they were for a moment allowed to bother them. The third point mentioned by Kettner is an attempt to connect an ancient sauce called syne, synee, or sene (sometimes cyne or cynne) with the word Cinnamon, because this spice sometimes formed one of the flavouring ingredients; but the more probable suggestion is that syne is an abbreviation of Sinapis, the chemical name for mustard, which was invariably present in syne sauce. Candied Cinnamon.—(1) Soak some Cinnamon in water for twenty-four hours. Then cut it into pieces lin. long, and boil them in sugar that has been heated to thread (see Sugar-boiling). When this has boiled once, drain off the sugar and dry the Cinnamon in a stove; put it into small shapes and cover with sugar boiled to the blow (see Sugar- boiling). When the candy is half-cooled, set them in a screen for some time, and let the candy harden. They should be kept in tins in a dry place and wrapped in paraffin paper. (2) Cut some sticks of Cinnamon into pieces rather less than ljin. in length, and give them a boil in some thin syrup. Remove the pan from the fire, and let the Cinna- mon soak in the syrup for six hours. Then take the pieces of Cinnamon out of the syrup, lay them on wire gratings, and set them in the stove till they are quite dry. When they are dry arrange the gratings in candy-tins, so that there will be three layers, one above the other. Boil s6me Cinnamon—continued. sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), and pour it into the tin so that the sugar may lie well over the Cinnamon on the upper grating. Put this in the stove and let it stand all night. Next morning see if the Cinnamon is well coated. If so, drain off the loose syrup and gently loosen the pieces of Cinnamon, take them out of the tin, lay them on a sieve, and set in the stove to dry. Cinnamon Biscottini.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of sugar till well frothed; mix in 3 teaspoonfuls of warmed butter and 1J teaspoonfuls of powdered Cinnamon, and beat the mixture a few minutes longer, then sift in pb. of flour, and continue working till it has become thoroughly incor- porated. Slightly wax a baking-sheet; then with a biscuit- forcer force the mixture on to it in pieces about 2 jin. long and lin. wide. Brush the biscottini over with some very thin royal icing, and bake in a moderate oven till lightly browned. When cooked, take the biscottini out of the oven and leave till cold before packing away or serving. Cinnamon Brandy.—To lib. of essence of Cinnamon add lib. of essence of cherry and lgall. of syrup of gum arabic, and put into four barrels of rectified spirits. This is a cordial- maker’s formula for Cinnamon brandy. Smaller quantities can be made in proportion. Cinnamon Buns.—(1) Mix Coz. eacli of sugar and flour and 2oz. of German yeast together: stir in two well-beaten eggs and lqt. of warm milk; cover the mixture, which is called a sponge, with a cloth, and set the basin on a warm place for it to rise. Rub fib. of butter in 3jlb. of flour till smooth, then add J table-spoonful of mixed spice and J table- spoonful of powdered Cinnamon. When the sponge has risen, mix all the ingredients together, working them well to procure a nice mellow dough ; if the dough is too soft, stiffen it with a little more flour. After it has risen lialf-an-hour longer, divide the dough into equal quantities and roll them into balls with floured hands. Warm some baking-sheets, and rub them lightly over with butter ; arrange the buns on these, leaving a short space between each bun, and flatten them slightly. Leave the buns to rise for a short time, then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk; let them rise a short time longer, then bake them in a quick oven. When cooked, brush the buns over again with milk. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Put fib. of moist sugar and 2Joz. of German yeast into a bowl with lqt. of water at 94deg. Fahr., and let them dissolve ; then mix in 12oz. of flour, and set it to rise. Add 11b. each of butter and lard, loz. of salt, a few currants, and a flavour- ing of ground Cinnamon. When well incorporated, form the dough into rounds, put these on tins, taking care not to let them touch each other, let them prove (that is, rise), brush over the surfaces with egg-and-milk, dust them over with caster sugar, let them prove again in the oven, and afterwards bake in a hot oven. Take them out, and use cold. Cinnamon Cakes.—(1) Work together 21b. of flour, lib. of butter, and lib. of sugar; beat the whites of six and the yolks of three eggs with a little rose-water, and make all into a dough, but reserve a little of the eggs. Form the dough into cakes, brush them over with the egg, and strew over a little Cinnamon, sugar, and chopped blanched almonds. Butter some baking-sheets, lay the cakes on, and bake in a slow oven. (2) Work together 2qts. of flour, Jib. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of Cinnamon, and make into a dough with the yolks of six or eight eggs. Lay on a baking- sheet, and bake in a slow oven. (3) Rub 3oz. of butter to a cream, work in 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, beat for a few minutes, and add J tea- spoonful of ground Cinnamon, sifted in with 8oz. of flour, one egg, and sufficient milk to form a paste. Roll the paste out moderately thin, cut it into cakes with a biscuit-cutter, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Put 8oz. of sifted flour into a warmed basin, mix in 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar and Joz. of ground Cinnamon, and form into a paste by adding cream. Roll out the paste on the board or table, cut it out into cakes, prick these all over with a fork or biscuit-docker, put them on a baking-sheet (not oiled, but dusted with flour), and bake in a moderate391 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads Cinnamon.—continued. oven for a few minutes. Take the cakes out, and use when cold. (5) Put Jib. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar with a small quantity of rose-water, and pound them thoroughly. Beat two eggs with a breakfast-cupful of sour cream, mix with them 11b. of caster sugar, the pounded almonds, a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of powdered Cinnamon. Butter a shallow cake-tin, line it with thin tart- crust, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. Cinnamon Comfits.—Francatelli advises that these, when wanted in small quantities only, should be prepared as follows : Take some Cinnamon and soak it for a little while in water, so as to make it soft; when soft, let it be cut into small strips, and dried before the fire. Take a preserving-pan, place the strips thinly but close together on the bottom of it, and put the pan over a very slow heat, so as to thoroughly warm it. Then add some syrup with a little gum dissolved in it, putting in a very little at a time. Shake the pan vigorously over the fire, and continue to add the sugar until the strips have had seven or eight coatings. Every time a coating of syrup has been given, the strips must be turned out on to a baking-sheet to dry, and the pan thoroughly cleaned. Cinnamon Confection.—Take 2 drachms of Cinnamon, bruise it, and mix with it a little clarified sugar or syrup of mallows. Boil lib. of sugar to the crack, a degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped into cold water, then instantly into the boiling sugar, the sugar will roll off the finger and form a ball in the water hard enough to stick to the teeth if bitten (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is boiled to this degree, throw in the bruised Cinnamon, stir it well into the sugar, and then remove it from the fire. As soon as the sugar begins to whiten, pour the confection into moulds, and set it in the stove till perfectly dry. Cinnamon Cordial.—(1) Macerate lib. of bruised Cinnamon in lgall. of proof spirit. At the end of a week drain off the spirit, and add 2qts. of strong syrup. A little rose-water, musk, and ambergris should be added to enrich the aroma. (2) Dissolve 1 fluid ounce of oil of Cinnamon in lgall. of proof spirit; add to this 31b. of loaf sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water and 1 pint of rose-water, using extracts of musk and ambergris in small quantities to give a full aroma. Cinnamon Cream Ice.—Put one or two sticks of Cinnamon into a mortar, pound well, and mix in 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a saucepan, pour over a breakfast-cupful of milk, and boil for a few minutes over a clear fire; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, 1 pint of cream, and the juice of a lemon. Pour the whole into the freezer, and let it remain until wanted. Cinnamon, Currant, and Caraway Cakes.—Bub lib. of butter into 3|lb. of flour, then make a bay in the centre, and put in lib. of caster sugar; moisten with half milk and half honey-water, and make into a dough. Divide the mass into three parts, mixing with one a little powdered Cinnamon, with another a few caraway-seeds, and with the third a few currants. Boll each out about jin. thick, cut into small rounds, brush over the tops with a little milk, and bake in a moderate oven. Cinnamon Drop Biscuits. -Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, I warm it, beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon, add gradually 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, beating continually ; then add three eggs, working one in before another is added, sift in lightly and slowly 6oz. of flour, a few well-washed and dried currants, and loz. of ground Cinnamon. Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer, and with this lay out small rounds on several thicknesses of paper spread over a baking-sheet. When ready, put them into a quick oven and bake. Serve, or use when cold. The currants may be omitted if desired. Cinnamon Flavouring. (1) To prepare this, dissolve 2 drachms of Cinnamon oil in 1 pint of rectified spirit, and add very slowly 1 pint of water; then mix in slowly lib. of powdered Cinnamon. Stir the mixture well and then pass it through a paper filter. (2) Dissolve loz. of oil of Cinnamon in 3oz. of rectified spirits of wine. A few drops will impart a powerful flavour { of Cinnamon. Cinnamon—continued. Cinnamon Liqueur.—(1) Pour 16 pints of brandy and 2 pints of water into a bowl, add 2oz. of Cinnamon in small pieces, the thin rind of two lemons, and loz. of liquorice-root, and let the whole "infuse for several days. Distil the liquor and mix it up with a syrup composed of 21b. of sugar and lgall. of water. Bun this two or three times through a filter, and it is ready for use. (2) This is prepared the same as above, using 24 pints of brandy, 4oz. of Cinnamon, 2 drachms of mace, and loz. of liquorice-root, which must be well beaten. The zest of two lemons must also be added, and the whole infused for several ^lays before it is distilled. The syrup is made of 41b. of sugar to 14 pints of water. (3) Crush 21b. of sugar-candy and put it in a saucepan with loz. of stick Cinnamon and lqt. of water, and boil these until reduced to a syrup. When ready, strain the liqueur through a jelly-bag or a piece of flannel, and mix 2qts. of pure proof spirit with it. Pour the liqueur into bottles, cork these tightly, and keep them in a cool dry store-closet for use. (4) Prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques (see Cordials and Liqueurs), with lib. of Cinnamon, 91qts. of spirits of wine, 71qts. of water, 31qts. of capillaire, and a little red colouring added just before filtering. (5) Bruise well loz. of stick liquorice, 2 drachms of mace, and 7jlb. of stick Cinnamon; put them into a jar or large bottle, pour on to them 3qts. of the best French brandy, and cover the jar closely. Let the infusion stand for some days before filtering it. Put 41b. of sugar into 31 pints of cold water; when the sugar is completely dissolved pour the sugar and water into the brandy and spice. Stir it well in order to mix all thoroughly together. Strain it, then pour it into bottles, and cork them well. Cinnamon Lozenges. (1) Sift the required quantity of finely- crushed loaf sugar on to a slab, make a hollow in the centre, and pour in sufficient dissolved gum arabic to form a stiff paste (lib. of gum is dissolved in 1 pint of water). Add a flavouring of powdered Cinnamon and a few drops of essential oil of Cinnamon, colour with coffee colouring, roll the paste out on the slab, dusting frequently to prevent its sticking; when about gin. in thickness sprinkle the surface with starch-powder and sugar, and smooth it with the palm of the hand. Cut out the shapes, put them on boards or wooden trays, and set them on the stove or hot closet to dry. Pack in boxes, and use as required. (2) Sift 141b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a slab or table and make a bay in the centre. Soak 4oz. of gelatine in water. Put lflb. of glucose in a sugar-pan on the fire, bring it slowly to the boil, remove from the fire, add the soaked gelatine, and stir well until dissolved; pour this into the bay of the sugar, add Cinnamon flavouring and orange colouring to fancy, and form it into a paste. Boll it out, cut it into shapes, dust with corn-starch, dry in the hot closet, and pack away in boxes. Cinnamon Sauce. Take a stick of Cinnamon, break it up into small pieces, and put it into a pan with 3oz. of sugar and a little more than 1 pint of water; put this on the fire, and after it has boiled up once, skim and strain it into a basin. Mix a little arrowroot or potato-flour with a little cold water, put it into the pan, and take out the Cinnamon. Boil it once more, and it is ready for use. It may be prepared without the arrowroot or potato-flour. Cinnamon Star Cakes.—(1) Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and mix with (jib. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of powdered Cinna- mon. Pound in their skins Jib. of sweet almonds, with a small quantity of brandy; then incorporate them with the above mixture. When well mixed, put the paste on a floured table, roll it out as thinly as possible, and with a small star-shaped tin cutter stamp out cakes. Butter a baking-tin, arrange the cakes on it a short distance from each other, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake them in a slow oven. When cooked, pass the blade of a knife between the cakes and the baking-tin, take them off, and lay them on a dish until cold. (2) Pound 4oz. of almonds in their skins ; beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites of two, and mix with them 11b. of caster sugar, continuing the beating for some time. Mix the pounded almonds with the eggs, 11b. of fine flour, the gratedTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 392 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cinnamon—continued. peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity each of powdered Cinnamon and cloves, incorporating the ingredients thoroughly. Dredge flour over a table, put the paste on it, roll it out very ( thin, and with a star-shaped tin cutter stamp it out into small ' cakes. Lay the cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, not too close | to each other, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, dredge them with caster sugar, and bake them in a slow oven. Cinnamon Sticks.—(1) Put jib. each of well-sifted sugar and flour and the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and work them well up ; then add 1 table-spoonful of Cinnamon sugar, j When all these are well worked together, put in Jib. of flour j and ljoz. of butter melted by warming, and beat all vigorously | until thoroughly mixed. Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer | having a tin-piping funnel about the size of a stick of Cinna- J mon, dust the table or board over with sifted sugar, and press out the paste, cutting it off into lengths of about 4in. or 5in., and lay these out straight in parallel rows upon a baking- sheet having white wax well rubbed over it. Pill a paper cornet with royal icing flavoured with Cinnamon, pipe the icing upon the sticks, put them into a moderate oven, and bake until they are of a light colour. (2)' Beat the yolks of two eggs with Jib. of caster sugar for twenty minutes; then whisk the whites to a stiff snow, and J add them, with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of blanched and pounded almonds, 1 teaspoonful of powdered Cinnamon, and a ! small quantity of powdered cloves. ’ Mix in gradually Jib. of finely-sifted flour, and beat the whole of the ingredients | together for a few minutes; then roll the mixture, and cut it into long strips. Butter baking-tins, lay the sticks on them, and bake them until dark brown. Take the Cinnamon sticks off the tins while still warm, and leave them until cold. Cinnamon Sugar.—Take 2oz. of Cinnamon, dry it in the screen, and pound it in a mortar with lib. of caster sugar until quite smooth. Pass it through a sieve, put it into bottles, cork up tightly, and keep in a cool place until wanted for use. Cinnamon Sweetmeats.—Put lib. of sweet almonds into a basin, pour on them sufficient boiling water to cover them, slip j them out of their skins, and as they are blanched throw them into cold water. Drain the water from them, dry them thoroughly, and pound them, a few at a time, in a mortar to a fine paste, adding a little water during the pounding to keep the almonds from oiling; mix thoroughly with the pounded almonds lib. of powdered white sugar, and as many slightly- beaten whites of eggs as will make it easy to spread with a knife ; add to this a small quantity of cochineal, to give it a fine red colour, and Joz. of powdered Cinnamon. When all these ingredients are thoroughly well mixed into the paste lay it on some wafer-paper, and cut into any shapes that may be desired. The paste should be spread about Jin. thick. Bake in not too hot an oven. Have some sugar boiled to the feather, or the degree of heat at which, if a skimmerful be taken from the boiling sugar and blown through, good-sized sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar-boiling). Dip a camel’s-hair pencil in the syrup at this heat, and as the sweetmeats are taken out of the oven brush them over with it. This dries directly, and very much improves the look of the sweet- meats. Cinnamon Syrup.—(1) Bub 1 drachm of oil of Cinnamon (oil of cassia is sometimes used) into 2 drachms of the heavy car- bonate of magnesia, put this into a folded filtering-paper, and pour through gradually 2qts. of water. Dissolve in the liquor which has filtered through 81b. of loaf sugar, using only suffi- cient warmth to dissolve the sugar. This syrup is strictly non-alcoholic, and keeps well. (2) Bub 30 drops of oil of Cinnamon in a mortar with 1 dessert-spoonfni of carbonate of magnesia, and add gradually 2 pints of water; filter this through paper, and in it dissolve 3Jlb. of granulated sugar without heating it. Cinnamon Tablets.—Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler, add just enough water to dissolve it, boil to the seventh degree, or “ball,” then put in a few drops of essence of Cinnamon. With a spoon or spatula rub the sugar against the sides of the boiler so that it will whiten it. Then pour the sugar into small moulds or on to a slab slightly greased with oil of almonds, and mark off into small squares or oblongs. Put the moulds or slab near the fire for about half-an-hour, to dry Cinnamon—continued. the tablets and make them hard. A little rose-pink colour may be added whilst the sugar is boiling, to give them a better colour. Cinnamon Wafers.—Sift 6oz. of finely-powdered white sugar, put it into an earthenware basin with 6oz. of flour, Joz. of powdered Cinnamon, 6oz. of butter (melted over the fire), and one beaten egg ; mix all these with a little milk to a thin paste. Heat an iron plate very hot over the fire, rub it well with butter, put on it a spoonful of the paste, fry it a nice brown, turn it, and fry the other side brown also; then roll it round a small stick. Proceed in this way, frying the paste and rolling it round the stick till all are done. Let the wafers get quite cold before removing the sticks. Cinnamon-Water Cakes.—Pound in a mortar Jib. of almonds, whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the almonds, and add Jib. of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of Cinnamon-water, a small quantity of powdered Cinnamon, and sufficient flour to form a thick paste. Boll the paste out rather thin on a floured table, and cut it into any small fancy shapes liked. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, and bake them in a slow oven. The cakes should be only lightly coloured when cooked. Keep them dry in tin canisters. Cinnamon-Water Ice.—Bruise two small sticks of Cinnamon, put them into a saucepan with a little plain syrup, and simmer on the side of the fire for ten minutes. B-emove the pan from the fire, stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, the strained juice of three lemons, and the required quantity of simple syrup. Pour the mixture into the freezer, freeze it, turn it into a mould packed in ice, let it set, and turn it out. Cream of Cinnamon.—Pour lqt. of spirits of wine into a bottle, add 2 drops each of oil of roses and oil of Cinnamon, shake the bottle vigorously until the oil is dissolved com- pletely, pour in lqt. of syrup, and add sufficient red colouring to g-ive the liquid a bright colour. Filter into small bottles, stopper these down, and the cream of Cinnamon is then ready for use. This liqueur has a very agreeable taste. Essence of Cinnamon.—Put 2oz. of coarsely-bruised Cinnamon and 1 pint of spirits of wine into bottles, and cork these very tightly. Put them into a warm place, and leave them for a fortnight; then decant and bottle off the essence. Extract of Cinnamon (for flavouring').—Macerate 4oz. of Ceylon Cinnamon bruised in a mortar in lqt. of proof spirit for ten days or longer, then strain it off, and dissolve in the spirit 2 drachms of the essential oil of Cinnamon. The spirit may be left standing on the bruised Cinnamon if preferred, and the clear fluid only used for flavourings. Tincture of Cinnamon.—Pour lgall. of over-proof plain spirit into a jar over lib. of freshly-ground Cinnamon, let it steep for a fortnight, filter, bottle, cork and seal, and put away for use. CIRCASSIAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. CISCO.—A fish of the herring tribe, found chiefly in Lake Ontario. It has nothing particular to recommend it beyond the ordinary herring, excepting a somewhat stronger and more savoury flavour. Its counterpart may be found in the Scottish Loch Fyne herrings, which are distinct in some respects from the common herring. Potted Cisco.—Take ldoz. Cisco, or enough to nearly fill the jar they are to be cooked and kept in, dress them and wipe them with a dry cloth, dust a little salt in and over them, and let them remain for twelve hours; then wipe them again with a dry cloth, and season with 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper, 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne and ground mace mixed. Put the fish (with their backs down) in the jar crowded close together. Melt a sufficient quantity of butter (say 31b.), and when it has settled pour over the fish sufficient of the clear part to cover them; put a greased paper and a lid on top of the jar, set it in a pan of water, and bake it in a slow oven for about four- hours. Keep the fish in the same jar, always covered with butter, and in a cool place.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 393 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. CISOLO.—A wine of Piacenza, in Italy. CITRIC ACID (Fr. Acide citrique; Ger. Citronen- saure).—Although. this is commonly known as “Acid of Lemons,” it derives its name from the citron tribe, to which the lemon belongs, but is found in, and frequently obtained from, acid fruits generally, such as citrons, lemons, oranges, quinces, gooseberries, currants, cran- berries, whortleberries, cherries, mulberries, &c.—these last containing somewhere about 1 per cent, of the acid in their juice. The process by which Citric Acid is usually prepared for commercial purposes is described thus: Take 2qts. of lemon- or lime-juice, 4|oz. of prepared chalk, 27| fluid ounces of diluted sulphuric acid, and lqt. of distilled water. Heat the lemon-juice, then add the chalk (finely powdered) by degrees to it, and when all the chalk is in, set the pan by for the precipitated citrate of lime to subside. This will take some time; but when thoroughly settled, pour off the fluid from the precipitate, and then wash it several times with warm water. When the precipitate is as clean as possible, pour over it the diluted sulphuric acid mixed with distilled water, and boil the whole for a quarter-of-an- hour or a little longer in a glass, earthenware, or lead vessel. Then squeeze the liquor through a strong linen bag, and filter that which runs through. Evaporate the filtered liquor over a gentle heat, and then reduce to less than one-half of the original quantity; set it aside in shallow dishes to crystallise. Citric Acid is used chiefly by confectioners, and aerated water and liqueur makers, for the purposes of simulating or intensifying fruit acids. To buy it in crystal is the safer plan, as it is easily adulterated, and some purchasers are much tempted by the offer of low prices. Citrocliloric and phospho-citric acids have been intro- duced to the aerated-water trade as being superior to Citric Acid, and much cheaper for lemonades and such- like drinks; but the recommendation would appear to end at the price, for it is quite certain that natural lemon- juice contains no such compound as either. It is, there- fore, very improbable that the flavour would be superior to the original. Competent chemists have declared both of these compound acids to be harmless. Imitations of lemon- and lime-juices are made by dissolving Citric Acid in water flavoured with soluble essences of lemon or lime. CITRON.—The fruit (see Fig. 476) of the Citron-tree (Citrus medico) is well-known in medicine, as it possesses extraordinary anti-scorbutic properties; so, also, do the fruits of other kinds of the Citrus tribe, such as lemons limes, oranges, &c. In cookery the candied peel is chiefly used, and is prepared in the same manner as orange- or lemon-peel. Sometimes known as Cedrat. Citron Blanc-mang'e.—Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, put them into a good-sized mortar and pound them to a paste ; to this paste add by degrees 5 tumblerfuls of water, mixing with the pestle. When thoroughly mixed, strain it through a cloth, squeezing it well to get all the milk of almonds from the paste. Divide this milk of almonds into two equal parts. Grate the rind of a Citron on some lump sugar, and continue till 6oz. of sugar have been used, | then dissolve this sugar in one-half of the milk of almonds. In the other half of the milk of almonds dissolve 6oz. of plain lump sugar. Put lloz. of isinglass to soak in just sufficient cold water to cover it. When the sugar is quite melted strain each half of the milk of almonds, still keeping them separate, and when the isinglass is sufficiently soaked put foz. of it into each of the halves of the milk of almonds, and when it is quite dissolved place a mould in ice and pour in the white blanc-mange to the depth of fin.; let that set, and then pour in the same quantity of the other half, which ought to be clear yellow; let that also set, and then pour in some more white, and so proceed, pouring in alternately yellow and white, till the mould is full. Citron Cake. - (1) Warm lib. of butter, and mix it with lib. 2oz. of sugar; when well worked together add lib. 4oz. of flour, six eggs, and the yolks of four. Cut in long shavings 4oz. of green Citron, layer these alternately with the cake mixture in a papered tin, and bake in a slow oven. Citron—co ntinued. (2) Rub lib. of butter into lib. of flour, add slowly the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs, then the whites beaten to a froth, and lib. of sugar. Cut into thin slices about lib. of Citron, fill a buttered tin with alternate layers of peel and paste, and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Work up with 4 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted flour 1 break- fast-cupful of butter, and add 2! breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. Beat to a froth the whites of ten eggs and add to the other, with 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Put in a buttered cake-tin alternate layers of Citron-peel, cut into thin slices, and the batter. Bake in a moderate oven. (4) Rub fib. of butter into lib. of flour, add lib. of caster sugar, twelve well-beaten eggs, 21b. of chopped Citron-peel, 21b. of shredded almonds, 21b. of grated cocoa-nut, and 1 tea- spoonful of mace, and mix thoroughly. Bake in a buttered tin. Citron Cheese-Cakes.—(1) Put lpintof cream into a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then move it off and let it get cold. Beat two eggs well, stir them into the cream, place over the fire again, and boil for five or ten minutes until the eggs are thickly curdled. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar and pound them well, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower or rose-water to prevent them oiling; cut 2oz. of green Citron-peel into thin shreds, and chop up two or three Naples biscuits. Mix all the ingredients with the curds, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Butter the interior of some patty-pans, and line them with a good puff paste, trim and notch this round the edges, fill the pans with the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes or so in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, arrange them on a hot dish, over which a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper has been spread, and serve. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of curd into a mortar, and beat well until it is quite smooth; then add 4oz. of almonds blanched and pounded with a little orange-flower water and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. When these are well mixed add two Naples biscuits finely grated, 2!oz. of finely-394 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Citron—continued. sifted crushed loaf sugar, and 2oz. or 3oz. of green Citron cut up very small. Put the mixture into patty-pans lined with puff paste, place a few pieces of Citron on the top of each, put them in a quick oven, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Turn them out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Citron Cordial.—Take 6oz. of Citron-rinds, 4oz. of orange- peel, a well-bruised nutmeg, and Tj pints of syrup. Put these ingredients into a large stone jar, pour on 2qts. of spirits of wine, and leave to macerate for ten days in a warm place. Then strain through a jelly-bag, and afterwards through filtering-paper if necessary. Citron Cream Ice.—Rub off the rind of a large Citron with lumps of sugar, scrape them into a basin, and stir in the juice of a lemon, sugar to sweeten, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of double cream. Pour the mixture into a freezer, and work it well. When frozen, it is ready for use. Citron Ice.— (1) Rub off the zest of three lemons on lumps of sugar, put them into a basin with the juice of seven lemons, and the zest of a large Citron, and mix in 3 teacupfuls of plain syrup and a very little water. Pass the mixture through a fine sieve into a freezer, freeze in the usual way, and serve as required in moulds. (2) Cut some Citron into slices, and pour over it hot lemonade, then put it on ice, and freeze it. Citron Jelly.—Take fib. of lump sugar, with some of it grate the rinds of two Citrons. As the sugar gets coloured with the rind, scrape off the coloured part with a knife, and grate again till there is no coloured rind left on either Citron, always scraping the coloured sugar off. Put the scraped sugar into a basin, pour on it 1 pint of cold water, squeeze in the juice of four lemons, and strain this mixture through a jelly-bag. Clarify the rest of the sugar to syrup (see Sugar-boiling), and then put a fourth part of it into a small pan and boil it to caramel (see Sugar-boiling). Soak loz. of isinglass in just enough cold water to cover it. Mix together the water and lemon-juice and sugar coloured with Citron-rind, the caramel, the syrup, and the soaked isinglass, and stir them over the fire till the isinglass is completely dissolved, then pour the jelly into a mould, and when perfectly cold, dip the latter into hot water for an instant, and turn the jelly on to a dish. Citron Liqueur. —Take lib. of Citron-peel macerated in 6qts. of 60deg. over-proof spirits of wine, with 2qts. of capillaire and 5qts. of. water, and colour golden with infusion of saffron. Citron Liqueur, or Cream of Citron.— Put lqt. of spirits of wine into a bottle, add 60 drops of the oil of Citron, shake the bottle well, pour in lqt. of syrup, add 2oz. of yellow colouring, and filter until quite bright, changing the filtering-paper after being once used. Pour this into small bottles, cork them down, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Citron Paste.—Take some Citrons, cut off the ends, and take out all the seeds and middle. Boil the Citrons in water till quite tender, then take them from the boiling water and throw into cold water, and let them remain in it for a minute ; dry in a cloth, and press them to get all the water out. Then pound them and rub through a sieve ; weigh them, and add double the weight of clarified sugar. Put Citron and sugar into a preserving-pan, and let them boil very gently indeed, stirring constantly till thoroughly mixed; then put the paste into moulds, and stand them on the stove till dry. Citron Pound Cake.—Cut ilb. of candied Citron into small pieces, and see that the oven is properly heated. Line two cake-tins with buttered paper. Sift lib. of flour. Put lib. of butter into a large bowl, work it to a cream, and beat in the following ingredients successively: lib. each of powdered sugar and flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, eight eggs, and 1 wine- glassful of brandy; then add the Citron, and bake the cake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters-of-an-hour, or until a straw can be thrust into it and withdrawn without being sticky. Citron Preserve.—Take a large lump of sugar weighing about lib., grate a Citron all over with this till the juice is almost oozing out. Then with a knife scrape off all the outside of the sugar to which the Citron-rind adheres, and on to this squeeze the juice of half the Citron. Melt the rest of the sugar over the fire, and boil it to the feather degree (see Citron—continued. Sugar-boiling), which is, when the skimmer is lifted out of the boiling sugar and shaken, large sparks of sugar rise from it and stick to one another as they rise. When the sugar has arrived at this degree of heat, take it off the fire and let it stand a short time. Then add the sugar the Citron was grated on, and the juice squeezed over; stir, and continue stirring, till a kind of ice forms on the top. When sufficiently cool, pour the preserve into mo aids. Citron Pudding1. -(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin, and mix in 2oz. of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream ; then beat in the yolks of three eggs. Place the cream in small cups or glasses, sprinkle them over with 2oz. of Citron-peel cut up very thin, and bake in a quick oven. Turn them out on a dish, and serve. (2) Work jib. of butter to a cream. Beat an egg till it is quite light, with' 3oz. of powdered white sugar, and mix it thoroughly with the beaten butter. Line a shallow pudding- dish with some rich pastry, put a thick layer of sliced Citron at the bottom of it, pour over the mixture of beaten egg, butter, and sugar, and bake till the pastry the dish is lined with is done. Take it out of the oven and put it away till quite cold. Citron Water Ice.—This is the same as Citron Ice, excepting that it is not moulded. Cream of Citron.—See Citron Liqueur. Preserved Citrons.—(1) Take some small Citrons, and cut a slit in the side of each. Put them over the fire in a pan of water, but do not let the water boil; whenever it is near boiling, pour in cold water to prevent the boil. When the Citrons rise to the top of the water in the pan, take them out and throw them into cold water. Put them back again into the hot water over the fire, and let them boil gently till tender. Take them out and put again in cold water ; afterwards boil them eight times in clarified sugar, and then pour both sugar and Citrons into an earthenware pan and let it stand all night. Next day drain the syrup off the Citrons, and, adding to this syrup a little more sugar, boil it up twenty-five or even thirty times, and then pour it over the Citrons and again let them stand all night. Repeat this every day for three days, boiling the sugar to a higher degree each day, till on the last day it is boiled to pearl, the degree at which little raised balls form on the surface of the sugar (see Sugar-boiling). The fruit may then be put into jars. To preserve Citrons dry, the process is exactly the same to the end, when, instead of being put into jars, they should be laid on sieves and dried in a stove, after which they may be glazed with the sugar that is left. (2) Procure a ripe Citron, grate the rind off and cut the Citron into small pieces, and tie them loosely in a piece of muslin; put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil until tender. When cooked, strain the water off the Citron into a preserving-pan, and put in with it 21b. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the white of an egg. Boil the water until the sugar has dissolved, then put in the pieces of Citron, without the muslin, and boil for a few minutes longer; five minutes before removing the pan from the fire, pour in a wineglassful of orange-flower water. Leave the Citron in the syrup until cold, then pack it in jars, and strain the syrup over. Preserved White Citron.—Cut some white Citron into pieces, lay these in a bowl, cover them with salt and water, and leave them for seven or eight hours. When ready, wash the pieces of Citron in plenty of cold water, and boil them. When tender, drain the Citron, lay it in a jar, and cover it with clarified sugar. On the following day, drain the syrup off the Citron and boil it up; when smooth and cold, pour the syrup over the Citron, leave it for twenty-four hours, and then proceed as before. On the third boiling, put the Citron in with the syrup and boil them both together. Put the pieces of Citron into moulds, and leave them to candy. The Citron may be kept packed away in boxes for any length of time. Whipped Citron Cream.—Dissolve ^oz. of gelatine and 4oz. of sugar in a small quantity of boiling water, and leave it to cool. Drain the syrup off £lb. of preserved Citron into 1 pint of thick cream, a,nd whisk it to a stiff froth, then mix in the dissolved gelatine and sugar. Continue whipping the mixture until it is very stiff, then mix in the pieces of Citron.395 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. tor details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Citron—continued. Clams—continued. Turn it into a mould and pack it in pounded ice and rock- salt for a few hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, then turn the cream out on to a glass dish. White Citron Cake.—Warm 12oz. of butter with 14oz. of caster sugar, and add the whites of fourteen eggs, one at a time, and lib. flour. Beat all thoroughly together, and mix in the grated rind and juice of one lemon, and ^ teacupful of milk; then mix in lib. of candied Citron cut in fine shreds. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour the mixture in, and bake for about one hour. CITRONAT.—This very delicious liome-made liqueur is made extensively in France, and may be prepared here with advantage to the lover of such drinks. The following is an excellent receipt for it: Put 2oz. of lemon-peel into a stone jar or bottle, and add 5 drops of oil of orange, 3 drops of oil of bergamot, 5 drops of oil of amber, and 1 pint of spirits of wine. The oils should be dissolved in the spirits of wine before adding. Let it macerate for from three to five weeks. Filter it, and then add 2 pints of water and 1 pint of capillaire. Colour with a little infusion of sunflower or French berries and the tinctures of saffron and turmeric, to make it a strong yellow, and bottle. CITRONELLE.—-The French name for a herb com- monly known as “ Balm-gentle,” which probably at one time entered into the composition of the cordial known by this name. Modern custom has apparently rendered its omission or substitution unimportant. The two follow- ing receipts for making the Citronelle cordial vary considerably in their ingredients. (1) Put the peel of thirty-four oranges and £ drachm each of nutmegs and cloves into stone jars or bottles with 4qts. proof spirits of wine, and let them macerate for four or five weeks, giving the jar a shake frequently. Distil or filter it, dissolve 2 jibs, of sugar in it, add lqt. of water, colour it by adding an aqueous infusion of sunflower, French berries, and the tinctures of turmeric and saffron, and bottle it. (2) Peel some vegetable marrows, cut them into halves, scrape out the seeds, and cut as many small square pieces as will weigh Gibs; then take 3jlbs. of powdered white sugar, and put this and the vegetable marrow into a basin or large bowl in alternate layers, letting them stand all night. By the next day the sugar will have become syrup ; pour this from the marrow into a preserving-pan, put it on the stove, and stir it till it boils; then pour it over the marrow again, and let it stand all night. Next day grate over the rind of three lemons, and add also the strained juice of the lemons. Put all into a preserving-pan, and add a teaspoonful of essence of ginger; place the pan on the fire, and stir till it boils; then draw to the side, and boil very slowly for thirty minutes. When cool, pour it into bottles and cork tightly, waxing and capsuling them if required to keep. CIVET.—A French term evidently derived from cives (small onions), and applied to savoury ragouts of bare and other game, rabbit, &c., into the composition of which wines and onions enter amongst other savoury ingredients. For receipts see Hare, Rabbit, Venison, &c. CLAMS.—Technically, this familiar name applies to j a very large assortment of bivalves, all probably more or less of the same species, but varying in shape, size, and colour more from circumstance of place and con- dition than from distinction of family. Almost, if not quite, all Glams are edible, passing from the giant Clam of the Pacific (Tridacna gigas), which has been known to weigh with its shells over 5001b., and the fish upwards of 201b., to the humble British mussel. The common Clam of America (Unga arenaria) (Fig. 477) chiefly demands our attention, as it is that to which the following receipts refer. As a food, when nicely and tastily prepared, it is pronounced very delicious, and although it is occasionally met with on the British coast, those supplied to us in tins from America answer every purpose, and fill up what would otherwise prove a serious gap in our culinary supplies. The Clam submits graciously to every form of cooking that the clever cook can devise for shell-fish, but far above all in the estimate of a true-born American stands the immortal Clam chowder. Fig. 477. Clam. The following receipts have been carefully collected from the best American and other sources, and although the terms “soft,” “hard,” and “little-necked” Clams are mentioned, the same style of cooking will answer for all, or any; but the little-necked Clams are usually eaten raw, like oysters. Clam Cliowcler.—(1) Take i peck of bard or soft Clams, remove them from their shells, cut the soft parts free, and chop the rest quite fine. Put the chopped parts into a deep kettle, with water enough to cover them, and boil them gently until they begin to grow tender. In the meantime peel and slice two onions, six potatoes, and 1 pint of tomatoes, and soak lib. of hard biscuits in milk, or crackers may be used without being soaked. When the chopped Clams are tender, take them out of the kettle with the skimmer, and put in all the other ingredients in layers, alternating with the Clams, and using the soft parts in addition. Season each layer with salt, pepper, and a little powdered thyme, savory, and sweet marjoram, and pour over enough cold water to entirely cover the chowder. Place the kettle over the fire where the chowder will boil gently for about twenty minutes; then see if the potatoes and onions are tender. As soon as they are done, test the seasoning of the chowder, make it to taste, and serve. (2) Take about Goz. of pork, cut it up into small slices, put these into a 2qt. stew-pan, and either fry or bake until they are of a light-brown colour. Put about 21b. of raw and sliced potatoes, Rb. of onions cut into slices, and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of Clams in layers on the pork; add 1 pint of milk and Clam-liquor (which has been previously strained) in equal parts, a teaspoonful of salt and half the quantity of pepper; then put a breakfast-cupful of broken crackers on the top, and bake until the potatoes are done, which will take a little more than an hour. Moisten the top with a few table-spoonfuls of the Clam-liquor, and put a piece of oiled or buttered paper on the top, to prevent burning. Clain-Cliowcler Soup. -(1) Take four or five dozen fine Clams, open them, cut up the flesh, and put them into a well- buttered stewpan ; then add six minced blanched onions, tw-elve potatoes, peeled and cut into dice, a bunch of sweet herbs, a taste of nutmeg, pepper, cayenne, mace and salt, pour in sufficient fish-broth and wine to cover the whole. Put the pan on a brisk fire, and boil for thirty minutes; then remove it to the side of the fire, and add a bottle of red wine to the broth. Thicken with a piece of butterTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 396 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <1c., referred to, see under their special heads. Clams—continued. well kneaded in flour, or a handful of crackers, and complete the cooking'; then remove the herbs, stir in 6oz. of butter, and serve. (2) Well wash six potatoes, and peel and cut them into small dice-shaped pieces. Wash again in fresh water; take them out, drain them, and place them in a 3qt. stewpan, adding 2qts. of cold water. Peel one medium-sized onion, chop it up very fine, and place it on a plate; take a quarter of a bunch of well-washed and picked parsley, and place it with the onions. Well wash two bunches of celery, chop it up very fine, place it with the parsley and onions, add all these to the contents of the stewpan, and place the pan on a brisk fire; season with a light pinch of salt, adding at the same time a table-spoonful of b itter, and let all cook until the potatoes are nearly done, eighteen minutes being generally sufficient. Cut out crosswise, from a piece of fresh pork, one slice jin. thick, and cut this into pieces jin. square ; fry, and reduce these in a pan on the hot stove for four minutes, and add them to the broth, together with f teaspoonful of thyme. Lightly scald four fine medium-sized tomatoes, peel, and cut them into small pieces, and add to the preparation. Open and place in a bowl twenty-four medium-sized, fresh Clams, pouring into another bowl half of their juice. Place the Clams on a wooden board, cut each into four equal pieces, immediately plunge them into the pan with the remainder of the ingredients, and gently mix, so as to prevent burning, stirring from the bottom, and boiling only for two minutes. ( Put the pan on the corner of the stove to keep warm. Season with 1 saltspoonful of black pepper and 1 table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, gently stirring the whole | with a wooden spoon; break in two crackers, stir a little | again, and leave two minutes longer on the side of the fire, but under no circumstances allowing it to boil. Pour the chowder into a hot soup-tureen, and serve. Clam Croquettes.—Steam or boil some Clams, chopping the hard parts into small pieces. Take both the soft and the hard parts and mix them with a thick cream sauce, add salt and pepper to season, and make them into small rolls or croquettes; roll these in breadcrumbs, dip them in beaten egg, then into the crumbs again, throw them into boiling lard, and fry to a light colour. Clam Forcemeat.—Fry an onion chopped very fine in loz. of butter until it is a golden colour, adding 1 table-spoonful of flour to make a roux, moisten with j pint of stock, stirring [ well and continuously until the same hardens, season with £ table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful each of white pepper and cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, % teaspoonful of mustard, a crushed clove or garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well, adding twenty- four blanched Clams minced exceedingly fine, and twelve mushrooms, also chopped up small. Cook for thirty minutes in a saucepan, then put it back off the fire, add the yolks of four eggs, and stir again for a moment. Cool, and use as required. Clam Fritters.—(1) Wash 1 pint of Clams, drain them, chop them up, and add a little salt and pepper. Then make a good frying batter, put the Clam mixture in small quantities into it, cover well, and fry in boiling fat. (2) Put some fresh Clams into one pan and their liquor into another. Prepare a mixture of broken crackers and flour in equal quantities, and dip the Clams first into their own liquor and then into this, repeating the operation three times, lastly dipping them into milk and then again into the flour mixture. Have ready some boiling lard, drop in a few Clams at a time, and let them fry for four or five minutes ; then, take them out with a skimmer, put them on a strainer, drain away the fat, and they are ready to serve. The pan containing the lard must be so deep that the Clams will be J covered when put in. (3) Carefully wash all the sand away from 1 pint of Clams, ! chop them fine, and strain the water in which they were J washed. Have ready, over the fire, a frying-kettle half full of fat. Mix together a breakfast-cupful of flour, the chopped Clams, the yolk of an egg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i salt-spoon- ful of pepper, and enough of the water in which the Clams were washed to make a thick batter. When the fat is hot beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth, stir it into the batter, drop it by the table-spoonful into the fat when it "is I Clams—continued. smoking hot, and fry the fritters to a good brown. Take them out of the fat with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, and serve them hot. Clam-Juice Broth.—Wash the Clams in their shells in cold water, put them on the stove in a good thick saucepan, and as they get hot the shells will open ; then carefully pour out the broth, strain it through a fine cloth, season to taste, and serve hot. Clam Soup. —(1) Prepare the Clams as for Steamed Clams; then take lqt. of the Clam liquor after it has settled, put it in a saucepan, boil it, and remove the scum ; then add 1 pint of boiling water, and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, onion, and parsley. Put in the hard part of the Clams which have previously been removed, and let it simmer for a quarter-of- an-hour longer, then strain, and boil again, and while it is boiling thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, cooked in 1 table-spoonful of butter. Put in 1 pint of hot milk or cream and the soft part of the Clams, and when they are all done put them on a dish, and serve with crackers and pickles. (2) If the soup is wanted in a hurry, heat the Clam liquor to boiling point, cut the Clams up into small pieces, and put them in; add seasoning, and pour the liquor into a tureen over two eggs well whisked and diluted with boiling milk. (3) For this soup fifty large, or one hundred small Clams will be required. In removing them from the shell, carefully preserve the liquor, which should be strained into a saucepan, and add to it lqt. each of milk and water. If the Clams are large cut them into halves, put them into the saucepan, and boil over a moderate fire until they are tender, say for about one hour. Skim the soup clear, add to it ^lb. of crackers (broken small), or jib. of butter crackers (rolled fine) ; cover the pot for ten minutes; then add jib. of butter, and serve hot. (4) Wash 1 pint of Clams and steam them in their own liquor, cut the soft part from the hard, and chop the latter very fine. Thicken 1 pint of hot cream with 1 table-spoonful of flour, cooked in 1 table-spoonful of butter; then add both the soft and hard parts of the Clams, and season with salt and pepper. If the puree be too thick, add a little more cream or a little of the Clam liquor. Put it on to boil, and when quite hot strain it, and serve in a tureen. Fried Clams.—Wash a bunch, or 1 pint of soft Clams removed from their shells, in cold water, to free them from sand, and lay them separately on a towel to dry; have ready a frying- kettle half full of fat, and set this over the fire. Whilst the fat is heating, prepare a dish of beaten raw eggs, and a platter of cracker-dust or breadcrumbs; roll the Clams in the crumbs, then dip them in the beaten eggs ; again roll them in crumbs, and when the fat is smoking hot, put them into it, and fry to a golden brown. Take them out with a skimmer, lay them on brown paper to drain off the fat, and serve hot. Fried Clams should be sent to table with a garnish of lemon, cut into quarters, or a dish of sliced fresh or pickled cabbage. Little-necked Clams served Raw. — Wash some of these Clams in water, scrubbing them with a brush, wipe them dry on a cloth, open them, and cut them away from the shells. Put five in a plate on the half shells, with half a lemon placed in the centre of the plate, and serve with crackers and a small dish of finely-chopped cold cabbage. Scalloped Clams.—(1) Well wash six good-sized Clam shells, fill them with Clam forcemeat, flatten them with the hand sprinkle over sifted breadcrumbs, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and moisten with a little clarified butter. Arrange them on a baking-pan, and bake until they are well browned, which will take about six minutes. Place them on a hot dish, and serve at once, with sprigs of parsley for garnish. (2) Prepare as for Steamed Clams. Make a white fish sauce, put the fish into shells or in a hollow dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle over a few buttered crumbs, put them in the oven, and bake until of a light brown colour. Soft-Clam Soup.—Cleanse 1 pint of soft Clams in 2qts. of cold water until they are free from sand, and then strain the water through a towel fine enough to retain the sand. Cut the hard part of the Clams away from the soft portions, and put the latter in a cool place till the soup is nearly done ; then chopTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 397 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, 'duces, ifrc., referred to, see under their special heads. Clams—continued. the hard parts of the Clams moderately fine, put them into a saucepan with the water in which they were washed, 1 pint of tinned or sliced tomatoes, an onion peeled and sliced, a small red pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and cook very slowly for one hour; then strain through a fine colander. After the soup has been strained, put it again over the fire, add to it pint of new milk, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-powdered cracker dust, and the soft portions of the Clams, and stir it constantly until it boils. Let it boil for a minute, add more salt and pepper if necessary, and serve very hot. Steamed Clams.—Take some Clams and scrub their shells well in water; then place them in a saucepan without any water, put them on the fire, and cook until the shells open. Take out the Clams with a skimmer, pour the liquor into a jar, and let it settle. It will be useless to strain the liquor through the finest strainer, but a piece of linen may be used; or if allowed to settle, and care be taken not to move the sediment, the water can be poured off. Take out the Clams from their shells, pulling off the thin skin round the edge, and cutting off the whole of the black end with a pair of scissors. Dip each Clam in a little of the liquor, and if at all tough cut that part through. When the water has settled, pour it into a saucepan, add the Clams, and make it hot, but do not boil it. Take out the Clams, and serve with brown bread-and-butter, toasted crackers, or on pieces of buttered toast. Stewed Clams.—Remove thirty-six small Clams from their shells, put them into a stewpan with 2oz. of fresh butter, 1 pinch of chives, and 1 pinch of finely-chopped chervil; add ^ break- fast-cupful of water— so that they will not be too salt—also i pinch of pepper and 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and boil for two minutes. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with the juice of half a lemon squeezed over. Stewed Soft Clams.—(1) Wash 31 dozen of fresh soft Clams so that no sand adheres to them after they are opened, lay them carefully in the palm of the left hand, and with the fingers of the right remove the body carefully, but nothing else, being very careful not to break it, and . throwing away all the other parts. When all are pre- pared, place them in a stewpan, with loz. of butter, -J- pinch of white pepper, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and two finely-hashed medium-sized truffles; place the cover on the pan, and cook gently for eight minutes. Put the yolks of three eggs into a bowl, add 1 pint of sweet cream, and beat well for three minutes ; pour this over the Clams, and toss the saucepan for two or three minutes very gently, to thoroughly incorporate the Clams with the cream, but without letting the liquor boil again, or the Clams will break. Neither spoon nor fork should ever be used in mixing them. Pour the whole into a hot dish, and send to the table at once. (2) Prepare 3 dozen fresh and rather small soft Clams, throw away all the hard part, retaining nothing but the body; place them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, ^ pinch of pepper, a finely-chopped shallot, and i wineglassful of Madeira wine, and cook on the hot stove for seven minutes; then add 1 gill of Spanish sauce, 1 pinch of chopped parsley, the juice of a medium-sized lemon, and loz. of butter, stirring the whole well for three minutes longer, without letting it boil. Pour the whole into a hot dish, and serve at once. CLAREMONT SAUCE.—See Sauces. CLARENCE PUDDING.—See Puddings. CLARET (Fr. Clairet; It. Clarette, from clari or clar, “ clear ”).—Of all tlie wines produced in Prance, there are none so famous as the Red Bordeaux. Not only are these wines famous for full bodies, bouquet, and delightful flavour, hut also for a richness of hue which is so remark- able that the name of the wine has provided a distinctive name for a colour, and for the simple processes employed in its manufacture. Indeed, Continental vintners are wont to observe that all other wines require special skill in manipulation; but Claret makes itself. From the time of this wine being introduced into Great Britain and Ireland it gained great favour, especially in the smaller island, where, according to Irish historians, Claret—continued. Claret soon became the prime dinner-drink of the “ quality.” Amongst the descendants of those who came over from Normandy with the Conqueror to this country. Claret was almost a necessity of life; but, as the old Saxon taste for mead and other sweets would assert itself at times, it became necessary to qualify Claret with sugar and spices. This led to a demand for mulled Claret, and to this day we find in England, Claret-cup, and other Claret concoctions, preferred to Claret plain. A writer on the subject of wines, says of Claret: “ Those who are not connoisseurs in it would not easily be enabled, from any description, to realise an idea of its beauties. Its colour, for instance, is difficult (even in these days of new hues) of definition—it is, in fact, ‘ Claret colour,’ and nothing else. To define an odour is a task equally, if not more onerous, and I can think of nothing closer to convey a notion of the bouquet of Claret than a combination of raspberries and violets ; the body is ‘ round,’ fruity, and soft as satin, and all the components are so happily blended into a homogeneous whole that during the degustation of good Claret all the senses seem to be simultaneously gratified. It is not, however, merely as a sybaritic luxury that I would wish Claret to be known; higher praise may be accorded to it as one of the most refreshing, the most cooling, and the most invigorating beverages, easy of digestion, and even assisting that process, a mildly stimulating and inebriating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural character, as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart of man.’ ” After such a eulogy, the mouth waters for Claret; but it is quite evident that the writer refers to the higher classes of wine, such as Chateau Lafitte, Chateau Latour, Margaux, and some others, the genuine productions of the primest vineyards along the sloping banks of the Dor- dogne, Garonne, and Gironde; but it must not be forgotten that some so-called Clarets are prepared on the banks of the Thames, and, unfortunately, find a ready market amongst certain classes in this country, who purchase these crimson liquids, and hope to drown their terrible imperfections by boiling them with lemon, spice, and sugar. These wretched concoctions it is not our business to recognise, under this heading or any other, but they intrude themselves upon us as so nearly approaching the price of some vins ordinaires that it is difficult to dis- tinguish one from the other, unless the palate is sufficiently educated in vinology to detect the inimitable flavour of the grape where it exists. The imitation Claret may make an excellent gargle for a sore or relaxed throat, by reason of its acid and astringent qualities—but genuine Claret does not act like that. Of the various kinds of Claret some words are necessary, although it may be fairly stated that their names are legion. Those best known to us are Chateau Lafitte, Chateau Latour, Chateau Margaux, Mouton Rothschild, Haut Bages, and many others, down to St. Julien, Medoc, and Yin Ordinaire—from 40s. to Is. per bottle. From the simplicity of its manufacture, Claret is es- sentially a vintage wine, its quality depending firstly upon the grapes used, and, secondly, upon the seasonableness of the year. The best Clarets are made from the juice of the Cabernet grape, which differs in quality according to soil and situation. Lafitte, Margaux, St. Julien, and Medoc are all made from this grape, and yet they differ con- siderably in their respective qualities and flavours; but what may be said of almost all wines is that a good year affects all grapes alike, although it does not always follow that a good year in one part of the Continent should be a good year throughout. Indeed, it very rarely happens that this is the case. Hence, even Clarets, or Bordeaux wines proper, differ in different situations. The year 1864 was a grand vintage for Lafitte, 1869 answered well for Lafitte and Latour, and then follows Latour again in 1870. The vintage of 1874 was fairly398 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Claret—continued. good in some places, so also was that of 1875; and then come 1877, generally good, 1878, 1879, 1880, and so on. Any wine-merchant of good reputation will know all the best vintages by heart, and take pleasure in guiding his customer’s choice ; but to pronounce an opinion on Claret requires familiarity with the best. The following are a few of the most acceptable uses to which ordinary Clarets may be adapted with some advantage to themselves. Prime Clarets should never be interfered with, beyond placing in a warm room lief ore drawing the cork. Claret Cup.—(1) Pour into a jug J pint of Claret and 1 pint of filtered water, add 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, 2 tea- spoonfuls of brandy, and two or three slices of orange, and thoroughly mix them. Stand the jug on ice for half-an-hour, strain, and decant. (2) Mix with 1 bottle of Claret £ breakfast-cupful of sherry, ^lb. of sugar dissolved in a little water, 1 bottle of soda-water, the thinly-sliced peel of a lemon, two or three slices of cucumber, or a sprig of borage or verbena, and ice. (3) Pour a bottle of Claret into a large jug and add three thick slices of cucumber, loz. or 2oz. of caster sugar, a sprig of balm and borage, J wineglassful of brandy or curagoa, and 1 pint bottle of seltzer-water, and well mix them. Stand the jug on ice for an hour, strain, and decant for use. (4) Pom- into a large bowl 1 imperial pint of Claret and 1 wineglassful of brandy, then throw in five or six leaves of fresh mint, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and, if in season, three thin slices of cucumber, and sweeten to taste ; then add 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-pounded ice, and on top of all throw in two bottles of either soda- or seltzer-water. Serve immediately. (5) Take a large bowl holding 5 pints, squeeze in the juice of three lemons, add 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, 2 liqueur-glasses of curaijoa, and two slices of cucumber with- out seeds; then pour in 3 pints of Claret and 1 bottle of soda-water. Mix thoroughly with a spoon, adding about fib. of ice in one lump ; mix again, then decorate with a thinly- sliced orange, berries of any kind cut up small, and finally with a small bunch of fresh mint. Serve in small glasses. (6) Put the thin rind of a lemon into a bowl or basin, and sprinkle with 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and a very little nutmeg; next pour in a liqueur-glassful of cura^oa and about a teacupful of sherry. When these are incorporated, add a bottle of Claret, and two or three well washed and dried sprays of lemon thyme. A few minutes before serving break in as much ice as required, and pour in a bottle of soda-water.- (7) Put 2oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar into a bowl, pour over it a wineglassful of elder-flower wine, and stir in a table-spoonful of brandy, two or three slices of lemon, and a bottle of Claret. Add a bottle of lemonade a few minutes before serving. (8) Rub 3oz. of loaf sugar on a lemon rind, then put the sugar into a mortar with ground spices to taste, using a little each of nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves, or any one singly; pound them well together, turn them into a bowl, put in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of broken ice, and pour in a bottle of Claret, or, if desired, Claret and water in equal quantities. (9) Cut a piece of cucumber about 4in. long- into thin slices ; place in a bowl, and sprinkle with about 3 table-spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar; pour over this a bottle of Claret, and add three thin slices of lemon. Let this remain for an hour or so, then add two sprays of blue- flowered borage, and a few minutes before serving pour in a bottle of soda-water. (10) Rub off the rind of a lemon with 2oz. of loaf sugar, pound it, put it into a bowl together with three thin slices of the lemon, and pour a wineglassful of pale dry sherry and a bottle of Claret over it; a few minutes before serving add two or three sprays of lemon verbena, 2 breakfast- cupfuls of broken ice, and a bottle of champagne (dry for preference). Serve at once. Claret Fizz.— Put 1 wineglassful of Claret into a tumbler with a few lumps of ice, shake them round for a minute or | Claret—continued. two, pour the Claret into a larger glass, pour in a bottle of lemonade, and drink while it is effervescing. Claret Ice.—Pour a pint of Claret into a basin, add the strained juice of three lemons, together with the zest rubbed off with lumps of sugar; pour in a wineglassful of brandy and half the quantity of rum, add sufficient simple syrup to sweeten, pour the mixture into the freezer, and then into a mould packed in ice. When set, turn it out and serve. Claret Jelly.—(1) Put into an enamelled saucepan ^lb. of lump sugar, 10 drachms of gelatine, i■ pint of Claret, and i wine- glassful of brandy, and let it soak for ten minutes. Pare very thin the yellow rind of half a lemon, put it, together with |lb. of currant jelly, into a saucepan with the wine and gelatine. Put the saucepan on the stove and stir till it boils, then draw it to the side and let it simmer for five minutes. Wet the inside of a jelly mould with cold water, strain the jelly into it, and when quite cold turn out into a glass dish and serve. (2) Put loz. of isinglass into a saucepan with f pint of Claret, and boil it until melted; then mix in -fib. of loaf sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Take the saucepan off the fire and mix with the contents 1 teacupful of raspberry-juice, 5- wineglassful of brandy, and the juice of a small lemon or half a large one. Strain the mixture through a jelly-bag into a jelly-mould, previously rinsing the mould out with a little cold water. Stand it on ice or in a cool temperature until set. Sweeten 1 pint of cream to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and whip to a stiff snow. Dip the mould containing the jelly in warm water, wipe it and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish; pour the whipped cream over and round it, and serve. Claret Julep. — Put a little more than a wineglassful of Claret into a large glass with an equal quantity of syrup, and add a* dash of rye whisky; fill up the glass with ice, arrange a little mint or balm on the top, and put in a few ripe berries of any fruit in season. Drink through straws. Claret Puffs.—Mix a breakfast-cupful of Claret with 1{> breakfast-cupfuls of thick cream; sweeten the mixture to taste with caster sugar; cover the basin with a cloth and let it stand for one night. On the following- morning whisk the mixture well, and skim off the froth as it comes to the top, placing it on a fine hair sieve to drain. Pile the froth on to a dish, pour some rich sweetened cream round it and serve it as soon as possible. Another way of serving it is to cover the bottom of a dish with cream that has been sweetened with caster sugar, then to put the froth on it in table-spoonfuls, letting them float about. Claret Syrup.-—Mix lqt. of good syrup, in a pint of good Claret. Frozen Claret.—Put into a bowl lqt. of orangeade and a pint of Claret, and mix in a syrup made with 41b. of sugar. Turn the whole into a freezer, work it well until nearly frozen, pour it into glasses, and serve while icy cold. Imitation Claret. — Chop fine, or pass through a mincing machine, 71b. of raisins, put them with lib. of the “ mother of Claret” (a cake formed of Claret leaves), and lgall. of boiled red rhubarb or red gooseberry juice, into a barrel with a tap at the bottom, add a pinch of crimson salts, cover over with a cloth, and allow the whole -to ferment for eight or ten days. When the fermentation has ceased, draw off into a cask, add 1 pint of plain spirit mixed up with lib. of refined loaf sugar, and leave it to work for a fortnight longer. When it has ceased working, add a little of the liquor (which should have been kept back), put in 1 gill each of elder-flower water and orange-flower water, and 2oz. of gelatine soaked and dissolved in wine. Mix well, stirring from the bottom, bung up securely and let it stand three months. Care must be taken that the barrel is not shaken during this time. Mulled Claret.— Put into a saucepan with i pint of water, a little powdered ginger and grated nutmeg, a few cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon, and let them boil for a minute .or two; then strain. Put the liquor back into the saucepan, and add £ pint of Claret and four or five lumps of sugar. Remove from the fire before it boils, serve hot.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 399 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. CLARIFYING. — Every cook, confectioner, and liqueur-maker knows tlie importance of producing an attractive brightness in the liquid or syrup he is pre- paring. It may also he taken for granted that very few productions after undergoing boiling, fermentation, or combination, remain quite bright and clear. Straining through a fine cloth, or filtering through paper specially prepared for the purpose (see Filtering), although in a measure clarifying, do not embrace the extended mean- ing of the term; hence it follows that some other process is necessary to bring about that which straining or filtering cannot of themselves accomplish. Clarifying is, broadly speaking, a process by which some harmless matter is added to, or some harmless process acts upon, a liquid body in such a manner that a fine insoluble network is formed throughout, which either settles down or rises as scum, entangling the opaque particles, however minute, that are floating about and constituting the cloudiness; these the network bears with it in its upward or downward progress. The process of clarifying is therefore purely mechanical. Whether the upward or downward process of clarify- ing should be adopted, depends upon the nature of the liquid requiring clarifying, but more especially upon its density, technically termed “specific gravity.” The operator must first ascertain or determine whether the density is so great that the downward process of clari- fication would be impeded or almost prevented by the resistance of the fluid. Some fluids are so thin, owing to the presence of a large proportion of alcohol, that if allowed to stand for a while any particles floating in them would settle unaided; but others again are so dense that the inclination of the floating particles is to rise to the surface, such as in brine, for instance, which will float an egg. These gummy, glutinous, gela- tinous or syrupy liquids are the most difficult to clarify, and excite the ingenuity of the operator to an unlimited extent, especially when it is of importance that they should be bright and clear. Sometimes boiling and straining through a tammy-clotli will be sufficient for the purpose, or filtering; but as these are treated under their own headings, our attention here is directed chiefly to clarifying by the use of clarifiers, or “ finings.” There are various materials used in clarifying, such as albumen (white of egg), gelatine, acids, salts, lime, plaster of Paris, Spanish earth, alum, heat, alcohol, pounded meat, and blood. The last two owe their clarifying properties to the albumen they contain in such large proportions, which coagulates upon the application of sufficient heat, and, together with the fibrine, carries floating particles with it as it rises to the .top as scum, or subsides as sediment. Blood possesses the valuable property of this double action of rising and falling, but it has some disadvan- tages that in the majority of cases would prohibit its use. In the first place it is not at all times procurable sufficiently fresh to be trustworthy, and secondly the slightest divergence from the line of purity will more than probably communicate a taste to the liquid with which it is mixed. Albumen is generally used under the form of white of egg for the clarification of syrups, as it mixes so well with the liquid in its cold state, but upon the applica- tion of heat it rapidly coagulates and rises to the surface as a dirty-looking, frothy scum, which can be easily removed with a skimmer. The dirtier the scum, the more effectual has been the clarifying process. Albumen is generally used for fining wines and liqueurs, especially red wines and wine cordials; but gelatine dissolved in a small quantity of water, or weak vinegar, or of the liquid to be clarified, gives the best results in fine white wines, beer, cider, and other liquids containing alcohol or tannin in sufficient quantity to coagulate the gelatine and lead to precipitation. Certain deleterious “ finings ” are sometimes used by Clarifying—continued. those who prefer appearance to quality. Sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) is frequently added to cheap alcoholic liquors, after white of egg or gelatine has been stirred up and dissolved in it, both of which it speedily coagu- lates and causes to precipitate. Other unprincipled manufacturers use salts of lead and potash to clear liquors, but with these we- have no business. Lime, alum, alcohol, acids, and heat all act by coagulating or curdling the floating particles, and thus, by increasing their density, causing them to subside. Plaster of Paris and Spanish earth act somewhat similarly, although other virtues are accorded to them which arc insufficiently verified. Sand is sometimes sifted into liquors to hurry down the coagulated particles, but of itself it is com- paratively useless, as its passage is too rapid ; and marl or clay is used for cider and perry in cider-making counties. Fruit juice and some vegetable juices can be clarified by boiling. The albumen they contain coagulates with the heat, and rising to the top can be removed as scum. Pounded meat is used by cooks in the same way, but with the advantage of a double action, as previously described; but this should only be employed when there is no harm done to the liquid by com- municating the flavour of the meat. CLARY (Salvia Sclarea).—A plant of the sage genus. Not much used in British cookery, though it sometimes finds its way among the herbs used by Continental cooks. Clary Water. — A cordial composed of Clary-flowers macerated in brandy, with a small proportion of cinnamon and a little ambergris. After straining, the liquor is sweetened with syrup. The proportion of the ingredients used vary according to taste. Considered a good aid to digestion. Clary Wine.—Boil Ggalls. of water, 121b. of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and the whites of four well-beaten eggs for half-an-hour, skimming carefully ; then pour this liquor whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh Clary-flowers, with the peels of the six lemons, stirring it well, adding a thin dry toast covered with yeast. When it has worked two or three days, add to it 6oz. of syrup of lemon, and a quart of Rhenish wine. Squeeze the Clary through a cloth; strain the liquor through a flannel bag into a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it ceases working, bung it quite close. The wine may be bottled in three months. CLEAVERS .—It is sometimes necessary for cooks to divide large joints into parts, or it may be in a400 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads, Cleairers—continued. country house that a quarter side or whole animal may have to he cut up for distribution. In such cases it is absolutely imperative that a heavy Cleaver (see Fig. 478) should be used for cutting large bones, and a smaller Cleaver (see Fig. 479) is often found useful when the bones are young or small. Cleavers with wooden handles are not recommended for hard work, as the handles, although rivetted through, are apt to work loose and come oft'. The Cleavers shown in the illustrations are of solid metal, with sharp hardened steel edges. The projection at the end of the handles is to prevent the weapon slipping should the hand become greasy during the cutting up of the meat. A large block of wood—a slice off an elm-tree answers admirably—is necessary to rest the bones that are to be cleaved, and as the force used is sometimes very great, blocks on legs are not recommended. For chopping up bones for stock or soups these instruments are very useful. Fig. 479. Small Cleaver. CLIFTON PUDDING.—See Puddings. CLOCHETTES. — Tasty French confections or pastes, moulded in the shape of “ little bells ”; from the French word Cloche—a bell. CLOD.—The upper part of a bullock’s shoulder. See Beef. CLOVES.—This name is derived from the Latin clavus, a nail, from which the French take clou, and the Spanish clavo, and this very accurately describes the ' Fig. 480. Clove-plant. shape of the spice (Fig. 480). The term Clove is also used to indicate one of the pieces of garlic into which a whole bulb splits up when the outer skin is removed; but this has a distinct derivation, coming from the verb to cleave, or split up. A “ Clove of cheese ” or butter was at one time a familiar expression for a piece weigh- ing 81b., and it may have had a similar derivation to the “ Clove of garlic.” The Clove, as we know it, is the dried unexpanded flower-bud of the Caryophyllus aromaticus, a shrub or small tree of the myrtle tribe, which grows wildly and Cloves—continued. profusely in the Molucca Islands. As imported into Europe, Cloves should be hard and tough, and exceedingly hot to the taste; but this, is not always found to be the case, for ingenious merchants who buy and sell by weight or measure have discovered a little peculiarity in the Clove that enables dishonest traders to increase their profits almost unknown to, and hence undiscovered by, inexperienced retailers. This peculiarity is that Cloves absorb moisture greedily, gaining weight and size thereby, but at the cost of aroma. These “ damped ” Cloves are usually very large, and soft in texture, lacking much of their natural pungency, and the trick can therefore be easily detected by biting the Clove. The Clove-tree itself is of a very thirsty nature, and absorbs so much of the moisture of the ground in which it is planted that no other vegetable life will grow near to it. Clove Candy Tablets.—Boil lib. of loaf sugar with j pint of water to the ball degree, add a few drops of acetic acid, and work the sugar against the sides of the boiler with a spatula or the back part of a spoon, so that every portion may acquire a whitish colour. Flavour with essence of Cloves, which should be added while the sugar is boiling. When cool, turn it out on to an oiled sheet, and mark it with the back of a knife in small squares, which can then be easily snapped asunder when cold. Clove Cordial.—(1) Put joz. of pure silica, or joz. of magnesia, into a mortar with 40 minims of oil of Cloves and 5 minims of oil of pimento, and rub them down; then add them to lgall. of plain syrup at 31deg. Fahr., containing 41b. of sugar to the gallon, whisk well, add 1 drachm of sugar colouring, filter through paper pulp and felt, and bottle for use. (2) Put foz. of oil of Cloves into a jar with 1 gill of strong spirits of wine, mix well, and pour it into a cask that holds exactly 2jgalls.; pour in also 3qts. of rectified proof spirit, and stir well. Dissolve 71b. of loaf sugar in 3qts. of boiling water, add this to the cask, and fill up to within about lin. of the top with water. Dissolve joz. of alum in boiling water, and put it into the liquor to fine it; next add joz. of salts of tartar, and stir well. In a day or so the cordial will be perfectly bright, and ready for use. It may be coloured red or pink, but is usually coloured brown with burnt sugar. (3) Put into a bottle joz. each of bruised Cloves and cassia- buds with twelve peppercorns ; pour in hot water to more than half fill the bottle, stopper or cork it up securely, and keep in front of the fire for forty-eight hours; then strain it into a vessel with 3 pints of proof spirit, sweeten to taste by adding syrup, filter, and add a little colouring of burnt sugar or a small piece of cochineal. Bottle, and use when required. Bruised nutmeg, or mace, may also be added. Clove Drop Biscuits.—Beat- 4oz. of warmed butter in a round-bottomed basin to a cream, using a ivooden spoon, and sift in gradually 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, beating Fig. 481. Clove Drop Biscuits vigorously ; then add three eggs, beating one well in before another is added, and lastly, add gently loz. of ground Cloves, mixed in with 6oz. of sifted flour. Have ready a baking- sheet with several thicknesses of paper spread over it, put401 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cloves—continued. the paste into a biscuit-forcer, squeeze out small quantities at a little distance from each other on to the paper, put the biscuits in a quick oven, and bake. Take them out when done, and use when cold. A few well-washed and dried cur- rants may be mixed with the paste if desired. See Fig. 481. Clove Gin.—This is made by mixing rough gin and syrup, and adding 2oz. of essence of Cloves to each gallon of the mix- ture ; pour it into bottles, cork, and set away until wanted. Clove Liqueur.—Put 2qts. of pure spirit into a large jar with lib. of loaf sugar, about twenty ripe or dried black cherries, and .3 table-spoonful each of bruised coriander seeds and bruised Cloves. Cover them over, and let them infuse for a month. The jar should be put in a warm place. At the end of the month, filter the liqueur through flannel, and bottle it. Clove Lozenges.—Put loz. of picked gum-dragon in a gallipot with a little tepid water, and let it soak for six hours ; then work the gum with the flat hand on a marble slab, work in slowly l^lb. of icing sugar, flavour with essence of Cloves, and colour with a little burnt umber. Dredge caster sugar over the slab to about j-in. thick, roll out the paste on this, stamp out the lozenges with a small round tin cutter, place them in rows on baking-sheets dusted with caster sugar, and set them in a screen to dry. Put the lozenges in well-stoppered glass jars, and keep them in a dry place. Clove Sugar.—Pound 2oz. of Cloves and lib. of loaf sugar in a mortar, and when very fine, sift it. Put away in well-stop- pered bottles till wanted. Clove Water.—Put ten Cloves and half a stick of cinnamon in a jar with lqt. of water, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, cover the jar, and stand it over some hot embers, or in the oven. When they have infused for several hours, strain the liquor through a fine hair-sieve, and bottle it for use. Cream of Cloves, or Clove Cordial.—Put lqt. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof into a large bottle, add 40 drops of oil of Cloves, shake the bottle well, and mix in lqt. of syrup and sufficient yellow colouring to give it the required tint. Strain the liquid through fine filtering-paper, put it at once into bottles, stopper these, and set them aside in a cool place. This is a delightful liqueur, and is considered excellent for relaxed throats. Essence of Cloves, or Clove Extract. — (1) Put 2oz. of coarsely-bruised Cloves in a bottle with 1 pint of spirits of wine, and cork the bottle tightly. At the end of a fortnight decant and bottle off. (2) Put loz. of Cloves and ^ pint of gin in a bottle, cork it down tightly, and put it away for a month, giving it a shake now and then. Strain the essence into small bottles till wanted for use. Tincture of Cloves.—Put lib. of roughly-ground Cloves into a chafing-pan over the fire and let them get hot; then turn them into a hot jar, pour over 4gall. of over-proof plain spirit, cork up securely, give it a shake two or three times a day for a week, then let it stand for another week ; carefully draw it off into bottles, cork and seal them, and set away until wanted. COAL—This subject will be further treated under the heading Fuel. At one time Coal, wood, and char- coal formed the only lieat-producers used in kitchens; modern discoveries and inventions have, however, intro- duced other agents, such as gas, paraffin and oil, so that these require a special heading, under which their com- parative merits can be discussed. There are many varieties of Coal, some of which are suitable for kitchen ranges with powerful draughts, and some that suit the old-fashioned open grate. Cooley states that the more important kinds of Coal may be classified as follows: (1) Lignite, or brown Coal; (2) Bituminous, or caking Coal; the most widely diffused and valuable of English Coals. This class is subdivided into (a) Calcing Coal, which splinters in heating, but the fragments then fuse together in a semi-pasty mass; (b) Cherry Coal or Soft Coal, lustrous in appearance, but does not fuse, although it ignites well and burns rapidly; Coal—continued. (c) Splint, rough, or hard Coal, which is black and glistening, but does not readily ignite, giving off eventually a strong heat; (d) Gann el, or parrot Coal, which is dense and compact, having a shelly fracture, and taking a polish like jet, and splinters in the fire, and burns clearly and brightly without much draught. Near Edinburgh, at Bathgate, is a curious deposit of Coal, known as “ Boghead Cannel Coal,” or “ Torbane Hill Mineral.” It differs greatly from other Cannel Coal, and is not of much use for kitcheners. (3) Anthra- cite, or stone Coal, which is very hard, dull in appear- ancdj and burns with little flame or smoke, throwing out intense heat, but requiring a strong draught. (4) Steam Coal, resembling Anthracite. In selecting Coal the first consideration will be the grate—what is it capable of burning ? Closed grates, called generally kitcheners, with flues, will burn a Coal or coke that in an open grate would be of no use; so that where one would burn anthracite another would almost require what is termed “ drawing-room ” Coal. Thus: (1) Lignite, or brown Coal, burns with little flame and much soot-producing smoke, therefore not suitable for kitchen purposes at all. (2) Bituminous, or caking Coal, is the very best for all general purposes, and is sold under a variety of names. It is obtained chiefly from the districts around New- castle and Wigan. The Cherry Coal variety comes principally from Glasgow, Staffordshire, Derbyshire, Nottingham and Lancashire. It constitutes the bulk of the great coal fields of North and South Staffordshire, and occurs in Shropshire, Leicestershire and Warwick- shire. (3) Anthracite is obtained from South Wales, Devon- shire and other parts, and (4) Steam Coal, adapted only for steam vessels, is found in South Wales and the Tyne districts. A good kitchen Coal should not be very sul- phurous—more than 2 per cent, renders it unfit for use in open grates. Coals containing excess of mineral should not be used, as they leave a quantity of ash that will occasionally find its way into vessels that are not intended for its reception, and these Coals are very liable to form large clinkers, and cake round the bars or other parts of the plate. Coal is sold under such specific names as nuts, cobbles, &c., the former being that which will pass through the first coarse screen, but will not pass through a second. The lumps therefore require no breaking up, but are of an exact size to suit the kitchen grate, requiring a mini- mum of attention on the part of the stoker. Further information on different kinds of fuel will be found under their particular headings. COAL-FISH.—This is a species of cod, remark- able for its black back, from which it derives its name (Gadus carbonarius). It is found principally in the cold waters of northern climates, in the Baltic and Davis Straits, and at certain seasons along the coasts of Spitz- bergen and the Orkney Islands. It is considered a useful food amongst a certain class of hardy north- country feeders, especially if caught under a year old, but after that time the flesh grows coarse. The inhabi- tants of the Orkneys catch the year-old fish with rod and line, and call it a “ sillock.” In the second year it comes less frequently to the shore, and is then fished for from boats, and is called a “ cooth ”; as it advances in age it retires further out to sea, and grows to the length of 2ft. or 3ft., or more, and is then called a “ setlie,” being fit to split open, salt, dry, and export, a large quantity going to the Mediterranean for Spanish consumption as calalou. In Edinburgh the young fish are called “ podleys,” and are occasionally bred there in salt-water ponds. The mode of cooking differs in no respect from that of codfish, to which reference for receipts should be made. 2 MTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 402 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. COBBLERS. — A fanciful name given to certain drinks, in allusion probably to the ingredients being cobbled or patched together. Receipts for these will be found under various fruits, the following being those more commonly known. Champagne Cobbler.—Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar (or syrup) into a large glass or glasses, half fill them with crushed ice, fill up with champagne, put in a slice or two of lemon, and drink through straws. Claret Cobbler.—Put 1 wineglassful of claret into a glass with a very small quantity of clove cordial, and the required quantity of crushed ice, float two slices of lemon on the top, and drink through straws. Mock Champagne Cobbler.—Put 1 table-spoonful of sugar (or syrup) into a large glass, pour over 1 table-spoonful of elder-flower water and half the quantity of orange-flower water, stir well, add 1 table-spoonful of brandy and a small (split) bottle of lemonade, put a slice of orange on top, and add as much ice as required. Drink through straws. Sherry Cobbler.—(1) Put 1 gill of sherry and 1 table-spoonful of sugar or syrup into a pint glass, half fill with broken ice, stir until the sugar is dissolved, fill up with more ice, put two rings or slices of lemon on the top, and drink through straws. (2) Take a large tumbler, put into it 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 heaped-up table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, six or eight strawberries or raspberries, and three small slices of pineapple or orange ; fill the glass up with broken ice, and serve it immediately, with straws stuck into the Cobbler to drink it through. Whisky Cobbler.—Put 1 gill of rye or Bourbon whisky into a tumbler with 1 table-spoonful of sugar, half fill up with crushed ice, put in two slices of lemon, and drink through straws. COBURG PUDDING—See Puddings. COCA.—The leaves of the Coca-plant (Erytliroxylon Coca) (see Fig. 482) are said to possess a marvellous power of supporting the human system under excessive muscular fatigue and prolonged abstinence from food. Upon these questions considerable variety of opinion exists. A celebrated traveller states that he was hardly sensible of the fatigue of the mountain descents after Fig. 482. Coca-plant. chewing Coca-leaves, that as a consequence of this chewing, hunger and thirst were suspended for a long time, and that neither appetite nor digestion were other- wise affected. Other travellers declare that Coca-leaves are quite inert. Extended experience has shown that Coca contains an active principle or alkaloid (Cocaine, which is sometimes used in medicine) closely resembling Coca—continued. in its effects the alkaloids of tea and coffee. From this it may be surmised that an infusion of Coca would be about as stimulating and refreshing as a cup of tea or coffee. It is of no other use to the cook. Coca Liqueur.—Infuse lib. of Coca-leaves in 2qts. of over- proof spirit and let them remain for a fortnight; then strain and filter the liquor, mix in 2oz. of spirit of juniper, joz. of vanilla essence, and loz. of essence of rosemary. When these are thoroughly incorporated, mix in 2qts. of clarified syrup, and bottle off for use. COCHINEAL—The generic name for the insect (Coccus cacti) from which this colouring matter is obtained gives a clue to its habits. It infests the cactus of Mexico and the Brazils, and is, when mature, brushed off the plants into convenient vessels, and dried by the application of heat. There are two kinds of Cochineal in the market—silver cochineal, which shows a purplish grey, generally styled “ silver,” and black cochineal, of a red or purple-black colour. Either may be used in preparing crimson colouring for confectioners, commonly called “ carmine,” according to the following receipts: (1) Put 1 pint of water into a copper stewpan, and dissolve lib. of loaf sugar in it; then add joz. of Cochineal and loz. of salts of wormwood, both crushed fine in a mortar, and boil for ten minutes, stirring in with a wooden spoon loz. of cream of tartar and joz. of alum. When dissolved, strain the colouring through a flannel bag, and as soon as it is cold put it in small bottles, corking them tightly. (2) Boil jib. of ground Cochineal with 2qts. of water, then add 21b. of loaf sugar, jib. of alum, fib. of cream of tartar, and boil it again. Strain through a jelly-bag, and when cold put it into bottles. (3) Mix together joz. each of alum, cream of tartar, and Cochineal, with j pint of boiling water; put the mixture into a porcelain stewpan, and let it stand on the stove for twenty-five minutes. Stir in gradually joz. of salts of tartar, and add jib. of caster sugar. Strain and bottle it. (4) Boil 1 joz. of Cochineal and 2oz. of cream of tartar with lqt. of water in an untinned copper pan; then add 12oz. of loaf sugar and loz. of salts of wormwood, and boil for a few minutes longer ; next add loz. of alum, and boil for three minutes longer. Strain through a jelly-bag. When the colouring is cold, add j pint of spirits of wine, and bottle it. (5) Put loz. of finely-bruised or powdered Cochineal into a sugar-boiler, add joz. each of finely-powdered alum and salts of wormwood, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of filtered water, boil up, and let it simmer for two minutes. Take the boiler from the fire, and with a wooden spoon stir in loz. of cream of tartar, pour the whole into a flannel bag (a very thick one), and filter into a basin. Put 4oz. of sugar into the sugar-boiler, with a little water, and boil it to a slight caramel (see Sdoab-boiling). Pour the Cochineal liquor over this, taking care not to let any sediment go in, mix well for a few minutes longer, and pour in a small quantity of spirits of wine. When cool, it should be bottled and corked securely. If put in a cool place the Cochineal will keep good for a long time. (6) Pour a breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan, and as soon as it boils add loz. of Cochineal beaten to a fine powder in a mortar, and boil for ten minutes longer; then add loz. of cream of tartar beaten up with 2 grains of alum, and boil for another few minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the liquor cool and settle, pour it off into bottles, and it is ready for use. COCIDO.—This Spanish dish is an excellent combi- nation of solids and fluids. The term is probably taken from the earthen cooking-pot the name represents. It is in reality little better than a sort of combined broth and hash of anything in the way of scraps that are handy, and duly qualified with smoked sausages. It is not likely to find much favour in this country. COCKADE.—A term used in cookery, applied to sugar or paste ornaments, which are thought to resemble in a measure the kind of ribbon decoration originally worn l on military hats.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 403 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itec., referred to, see under their special heads. COCK-A-LEEKIE.—Although Scotland claims the supreme credit for this dish, it is hut the Scottish edition of a fourteenth-century English dish, known in those days as ma-lachi, or ma-leaclii, “ ma ” being the old English term for fowl. In making malachi, the bird was half roasted and then boiled in broth until the meat would fall from the bones, when the whole bird was chopped to pieces, and served with a strong broth made from the fowl stock, and flavoured with an extra quantity of onions and other vegetables, syrup, spice, and raisins or currants. In Scotland the orthodox mode of procedure was to boil a capon in broth, and when the liquor began to boil, pop in a large proportion of white leeks. After an hour’s boiling the fowl was removed, and the flesh cut into pieces off the bones and returned to the broth with another batch of leeks, pepper, salt, and stewed prunes and raisins. With lialf-an-hour’s more boiling the Cock-a-Leekie would be ready to serve. A notion prevails amongst a few unenlightened persons that this soup requires, as a sine qua non, an old cock for its correct manufacture; but this is not the case, for if the bird be not a young one it is better left out, and some other meat, such as veal or lean pork, substituted. Then, again, the leek element may be in excess for some tastes—indeed, it very often is—but this is due to a mis- conception of the meaning of the term “leekie,” that is, if the English origin of the dish be accepted; for the word lachi or leachi, following the “ ma ” in ma- lachi, does not refer to leeks, but to a “ slice.” Latterly, in Scotland, the prunes have been omitted, which, perhaps, may be due to- an opinion expressed by Talleyrand in favour of the soup, but advising that if the prunes were boiled in it they should not be served. Soyer wrote: “With all due respect to Scotch cookery, I will always give the preference in the way of soup to their Cock-a-Leekie, even before their inimitable hotch-potch,” a remark that, apart from the acknowledged excellence of these two, and many other Scottish dishes, was probably written during, or in memory of, a visit to the Land o’ Cakes; for Soyer rarely praised any other dishes than his own—and, perhaps, in this case he was referring to his personal preparation. The following receipts are modern: Cock-a-Leekie.—Finely chop 41b. or 51b. of shin of beef, put it into a saucepan with 3galls. of cold water, and boil until a rich liquor is obtained ; strain this into a saucepan, pouring it over a roasted capon or fowl, and boil for three or four minutes ; put in lib. of blanched leeks, well cleaned and cut into tin. lengths, and boil for half-an-liour longer. Take out the bird, bone it and chop it up, return it to the pan, add another pound of leeks, season with salt and pepper, and boil again until the leeks are done and the soup is quite thick. Serve hot. Mock Cock-a-Leekie.—Put 21b. of lean veal into a saucepan with lgall. of water, and a seasoning of mace, cloves, and celery-seed tied up in a muslin bag, and boil for fully two hours. Take out the veal, cut it up into small pieces, put it back in the saucepan, together with three or four leeks well washed and finely chopped, and boil for half-an-liour longer ; grate in a potato, boil for a quarter-of-an-hour, remove the bag of seasoning, and add salt and pepper to taste. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve as hot as possible. A few pieces of toast may be floated in it. COCKS’ COMBS (Fr. Cretes [crests] de Coqs).— Artistic cooks, especially those of Continental education, lay great store by blanched Cocks’ Combs for decorating purposes, hence in France they are carefully collected and preserved. In British cookery they are just those parts that are thrown away with the offal. It is the great trouble and pains required to prepare them that seems to appal the ordinary cook, for whose gratification it may be well to state that bottled Cocks’ Combs, which may be purchased of any charcutier, are quite as good as those personally prepared—perhaps better—as it is no easy matter to clear the tissue of blood. The following in- Cocks’ Combs—continued. structions for blanching Cocks’ Combs, and otherwise preparing them for use, have been supplied by a very distinguished chef. Put about lib. of fresh Cocks’ Combs into a saucepan, cover them with water, set the pan on a brisk fire, stir until the skins begin to rise, and then pour in sufficient cold water to prevent them cooking further. Take them out, remove the skins, trim the parts where they have been cut off the heads of the birds, put them into a bowl of salted water, and let them soak for six hours. Turn them out into cold fresh water, Fig. 483. Blanched Cocks’ Combs. changing it several times, and let them remain until they are quite white ; then put them into a saucepan with a good supply of water, add a little butter, lemon-juice, and salt, and boil them. Should they be wanted for garnishing attelettes, they will not require to be much cooked. Care must be taken to cease the cooking as soon as the skins rise, otherwise the blood will coagulate, and it will then be im- possible to blanch them. See Fig. 483. Artificial Cocks’ Combs are sometimes cut out of the palates of oxen or sheep, or from the white part of a calf’s Fig. 484. Imitation Cocks’ Combs for Garnish. pluck. See Fig. 484. Having cleaned, flattened, and blanched the piece cut away for the purpose, the exact shape of a Cock’s Comb can be cut out with a sharp pair of Fig. 485. Imitation Cocks’-comb Punch. scissors, or, what is better, have a punch (see Fig. 485) made to cut out the required shape—one worked by either a leverTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 404 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocks’ Combs—continued. at the cook’s service, and Lecoq, a celebrated culinary master, literally revelled in taking his clients in with them,“who,” Delamere remarks, “complacently took them in themselves,” quite ignorant of the deceit. Real Cocks’ Combs can readily be distinguished from those that are artificial, because both sides are studded with papillae, or little warts, which is not the case with those cut from the palate and stamped from other parts—in these there are probably no papillae at all. Cocks’ Combs with. Truffles in Aspic.—Pack a plain cylinder mould in pounded ice. Take lib. of blanched and cooked Cocks’ Combs, and the same quantity of truffles, stewed in wine and cut into rounds. Have ready some half-set aspic jelly, dip some rounds of truffles in it, arrange them in a circle against the inner sides of the mould, and put in a circle of the Cocks’ Combs, also dipping them in the jelly. Proceed in this manner until the mould is full of alternate circles of truffles and Cocks’ Combs, and then leave them until they are set. Afterwards fill the mould up carefully A* Fig. 486. Cocks’ Combs with Truffles in Aspic. with cold, but liquid, jelly, and leave in the ice for an hour or two. When quite set and hard, dip the mould into hot water to loosen the jelly, then wipe it, and turn it oh to a dish. In the middle of the dish might be fixed a small column of bread masked with fat, so that when the jelly is turned out, it fits into the hollow of the mould. A subject modelled in fat, representing a cock (see Pig. 486) or other suitable subject, might be placed on the top to give it a finish. Garnish round the base of the jelly with croutons of aspic jelly. Fried Stuffed Cocks’ Combs.—Take Jib. or so of blanched and boiled Cocks’ Combs, cut them lengthwise without severing them, put a small piece of chicken forcemeat in the centre of each, fold them up to their original shapes, dip them into frying batter, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry to a good colour. Take them out, drain them, dust them over with salt, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Rissoles of Cocks’ Combs with Ham. Take two or three dozen blanched and boiled Cocks’ Combs, cut them up into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a third of their bulk of chopped cooked ham. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rather thick bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce this on the fire, add 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, set the pan on the side, and mix in the pieces of meat, which should soak up nearly all the sauce but yet keep it of a good con- sistence. Turn the whole out into a basin and let it cool. Boll out some half-puff paste, with it and the preparation form rissoles, fry these in boiling fat, drain them, arrange them on a folded napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rissoles of Cocks’ Combs and Truffles.—Blanch and trim twelve Cocks’ Combs, put them into a saucepan with a white ] thickening made of butter, flour, and stock, and boil them. Turn them out into a basin, let them get cold or nearly so, I Cocks’ Combs—continued. cut them up into small pieces, mix in a few truffles boiled in sherry and chopped, and stir well with the reduced liquor from the Cocks’ Combs. Boll out a pound or so of puff paste, cut it into rounds of about 4in. in diameter, put these into the oven for a few minutes to brown on one side, put a little of the preparation on each of them, fold them over, damping the edges to make them adhere, dip each one separately into well-beaten egg seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, plunge them into boiling fat (either butter or lard), and fry them. Take them out, drain them, arrange them in a pile on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley or other garnish. COCKS’ KERNELS.—Hard secretions found in the flesh of the cock. They are esteemed a great delicacy, and are therefore almost unknown, excepting amongst a few of the professed gourmets of the wealthy classes. They are prepared as follows : Well wash the required quantity of white, firm, and unbroken Cocks’ Kernels, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, add butter, lemon-juice, and salt as required, and stir over the fire until they are firm, but without boiling. Take them out, drain, and use as a garnish. COCKLES.—This name, for a very delicious little shell-fisli, is undoubtedly derived from the French coquilles, shells; the French for Cockles is Coques. They are of the genus Cardium (heart-shaped), and may Fig. 487. Cockles. be classed amongst the scallops (see Fig. 487). When cooked and removed from their shells they are prettily diversified in colour, yellow and red predominating. As their usual habitat is the sand of the sea-shore, they are almost always gritty, even after cooking, unless extra- ordinary precautions are taken for cleaning them by soaking them in numerous renewals of cold salted water before putting them in the pot to boil. The following instructions are given by Mr. Rawson for washing and boiling Cockles: After having washed in several waters as many Cockles as may be required, leaving them to soak for at least one hour in each water, put them into a final bath with a piece of salt in it, and having covered the bowl with a cloth leave them for the night; by the morning they will probably have discharged all their sand, and be ready for cooking. Have a very little water at the bottom of a large sauce- pan and put the Cockles in to about half-full; then set it over the fire, and give the Cockles a good shake up now and again as they get warm. When their shells are open they are done, and should be cooked no longer, or they will405 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cockles—continued. be hard and unpalatable. The liquor at the bottom of the saucepan may be strained through a cloth and used for making sauce or moistening other dishes. Pick the Cockles out of the shells with a fork. Cockle Ketchup.—(1) Pound 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled Cockles to a pulp, put this into a lined saucepan with a pint of very strong old ale or sherry, season with loz. of salt, foz. of mace, and 1 drachm of pepper, and set the saucepan on a slow fire to simmer gently for ten minutes. Pass the ketchup through a strainer or cloth, bottle it when cool, and to each bottle add a little brandy. Cork the bottles up securely, put them away in a cool place, and use as required. (2) Fill a pint measure with Cockles, and put them with- out their liquor into a mortar with ^oz. each of ground mace, cloves, and cayenne, also 1 dessert-spoonful of salt and three boned anchovies, and pound them well. Put this into a saucepan with the Cockle liquor, add 2 wineglassfuls of brandy and 1 pint of any red wine, boil up once, strain through a fine sieve, and bottle. Cockle Salad.—Boil the fish slowly for half-an-hour with a little water and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut 6oz. of fat bacon into small pieces, put these in a frying-pan, and fry them till the oil turns a pale golden colour. Take the pan from the fire, and mix in one-third of vinegar to two- thirds of the bacon oil. When cooked, drain the Cockles, pick them out of their shells, and put them in a salad-bowl, with some chopped dandelion-leaves. Season the salad with salt and pepper, pour the bacon dressing over it, and serve. Cockle Sauce.—Bub down until smooth 1 table-spoonful of flour with | pint of the strained liquor from the boiled Cockles, add a pat of butter, a sprinkle of pepper and ground mace, and plenty of grated nutmeg. Warm this over the fire until it thickens, and then put in a handful of boiled Cockles ; simmer again for a few minutes to heat the Cockles through, and serve. Cockle Soup.—Trim as many boiled Cockles as you may require—say 1 pint for the following receipt—and put them into a soup-tureen. Melt ilb. of butter in a saucepan, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and let it stand on one side to cool; then add 2qts. of white stock, lqt. of milk, and the strained liquor and trimmings of the Cockles, and stir this over the fire until it boils; add 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy essence, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, six peppercorns and one blade of mace, and boil for ten minutes longer. Skim, add j pint of cream, and strain it over the Cockles in the tureen. Serve hot. Hustled Cockles.—Put the Cockles in a large tin saucepan, without any water, and set the pan without its lid on a brisk fire. The Cockles will let out enough liquid to prevent burning. As ' they begin to warm, shake them about in the saucepan. When the shells open, they are done enough. Turn them into a deep dish with the hot liquor strained throrrgh a tammy over them, and serve immediately. Pickled Cockles.—Take as many as may be required of Hustled Cockles, pick them out of their shells, put them into a preserving-jar, and shake a little pepper over them. Strain the liquor from the Cockles through a tammy, mix it with a similar quantity of vinegar, and pour it over the Cockles. Tied down in the usual manner, these can be kept for several days, and form a nice little dish for incidental use. Cold Cockles cooked in any way can be preserved as above. Scalloped Cockles.—(1) Cook the Cockles as for Hustled Cockles, add to them while in the saucepan a piece of butter, a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and a very little flour. Line some scallop shells with breadcrumbs, on these put a layer of Cockles, sprinkle over them more breadcrumbs, and add another layer of Cockles. Moisten with a few tea- spoonfuls of the Cockle liquor, cover thickly with breadcrumbs, lay a few little pieces of butter on each, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and put them in the oven until the outsides are crisp and brown. Serve while very hot, with lemons cut into quarters to be squeezed over them. Cayenne pepper should be served with these. (2) Open sufficient live Cockles that have been well washed in several waters, put them into a stewpan on the stove, and just warm them; drain them on a sieve, reserving their I Cockles—continued. liquor, wash them in cold water, and put them to drain again. Put into a stewpan 2oz. of fresh butter and a piled table-spoonful of flour, and mix thoroughly over the fire with a wooden spoon; pour in the strained Cockle liquor and a gill of cream, and stir the sauce upon the fire until it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes ; by that time it will be greatly reduced. Put the Cockles into it, add the juice of half a lemon, and season with pepper and salt. Put this mixture into scallop or oyster shells, cover over with fried bread- crumbs, and about fifteen minutes before they are wanted put them into the oven. Dish them upon a folded napkin, ’ and serve very hot. (3) Wash the shells several times till they are quite clean, but do not soak them in water or let them lie in it. Plunge them into boiling water, but only just sufficient to cover, and keep the water boiling till the shells open; while they are boiling keep the saucepan closely covered, and shake it frequently. When the Cockles are done, that is, when the shells open, pick them out of the shells and save the liquor that runs from them. If there are a pint of Cockles when taken out of their shells, add to them 5 pint of their liquor, and put them in a saucepan over the fire, together with a blade of mace and a bit of butter rolled in flour, and let them stew gently for a few minutes. Have some clean scallop shells ready and well heated, pour the stewed Cockles into them, cover the top with fine breadcrumbs, stick little bits of butter over them, brown them in front of the fire, and serve hot. COCKTAILS.—American beverages under this name are prepared by icing, sweetening, and flavouring in various ways mixtures of spirits, liqueurs, or wines with water. The following are good examples, although the mode of preparation and ingredients used are varied very much according to tastes and circumstances: Bourbon Cocktail.—Put 2oz. each of the tinctures of orange and lemon into a jar with loz. each of the tinctures of gentian and dandelion, and 3 drachms of the tincture of buchu-leaves, also 50Z. each of the tinctures of cardamoms and coriander-seed. Pour over lgall. of Bourbon whisky, mix well, then add vgall. of syrup, and solferino or turmeric colouring, strain or filter, and bottle off for use. Brandy Cocktail.—To -|oz. (fluid) each of the tinctures of orange-peel, lemon-peel, tansy-leaves, cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, add lgall. of pale brandy, and mix thoroughly. Pour in lgill of curaijoa and 2fqts. of thin syrup, agitate vigorously, bottle in small bottles, cork, and seal or capsule. Champagne-Cider Cocktail.—Half-fill a glass bowl with shaved ice, seeing that there is room for a bottle of cider. Add 2 drops of essence of lemon, 10 drops of tincture of gentian, and 1 table-spoonful of dandelion-juice. Mix these thoroughly with the ice, and pour in the champagne cider. Serve in glasses. Champagne Cocktail. —Take a pint glass, half fill it with broken or shaved ice, then add 2 drops each of the essences of orange, lemon, and gentian, next 1 table-spoonful each of syrup and orange-flower water; mix well, add 1 gill of dry champagne, and serve with straws. Gin Cocktail.—Put loz. each of the tinctures of cardamom, coriander, gentian, lemon, and quassia into a jar with lqt. of gin ; mix well, add a little caramel and saffron colouring, stir in lgall. of syrup, and Ingalls, more of gin. Strain through filtering paper, and bottle. Bye Whisky Cocktail.—Mix |oz. each of the tinctures of lemon, coriander, cardamom, and gentian in a jar with 1 pint of rye whisky, add also loz. of tincture of bitter oranges, 25 drops of tincture of Turkey rhubarb, and 1 breakfast- cupful of tincture of chillies; when these are well mixed, add to them 2galls. more of the whisky (less the pint previously used), work them well together, pour in 3galls. of syrup, bottle and cork. COCOA.—Almost throughout the European Continent the food prepared from the Cocoa-nib is known generally as chocolate, obtained from the Mexican word chocolate, the term used in South America for a drink made from the delicious fruit of the cacao-tree, for it grows there in abundance. The cacao (Theobromq Cacao), or as it is more commonly called, the Cocoa-tree, is largely406 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa—continued. cultivated in tropical regions on both sides of the Atlantic, but the bulk of the seeds brought to England come from the West Indies, principally Trinidad and Grenada. The tree itself is not very imposing in appearance, rarely attaining a greater height than 20ft., but when in full flower it presents a very pretty sight, for it has a smooth greyish bark, from which appear to spring almost indiscriminately small pink flowers and long tapering leaves. The fruit is something like a small badly- Fig. 488. Cocoa Fkuit and Floweks. shaped gherkin, with furrowed sides (see Fig. 488), and reaches a length of bin. or 8in., and a breadth of Sin. or 4in. At first the pod is green, afterwards it turns to yellow, and on the sides exposed to the sun soon assumes a bright red. Each pod contains from 50 to 100 almond- shaped seeds; these are pinkish when fresh, but turn a beautiful deep (chocolate) brown when dried for commerce. The inside of the mature fruit is chiefly made up of these seeds, or “ nuts ” as they are called when dried, the outside covering being brittle and no thicker than stoutisli brown- paper. When the fruit is ripe it is gathered and piled in exposed heaps to undergo a species of fermentation, or partial decay of the outer skin; as soon as this is satisfactorily accomplished, and it does not take long, the fruit is broken open and the seeds extracted. These are at first surrounded by a sweet buttery pulp, which soon dries by exposure to the sun. When Cocoa was first used for making a beverage it would be difficult to ascertain; to the Mexicans, who have long been accustomed to bruise up the seeds with water and flavour them with spice, we go for our earliest knowledge of it. Montezuma, the Mexican monarch, is reported to have indulged in a chocolate preparation made by working the brown liquid into a froth with the richest cream, flavoured delicately with vanilla; and of this he partook himself and regaled his guests from a golden bowl, serving it personally with a golden spoon, or ladle—a very laudable combination of a jovial tem- perance bowl d la Punch. It was during this monarch’s reign (1520) that Cocoa first found its way into Europe, where it has taken up its quarters ever since, and become a prime favourite. The vanilla-flavoured chocolate cream of Montezuma finds favour to this day. Indeed, the amount of Cocoa, in its various forms, now consumed in the world must be enormous. In Spain, Italy, France, and Central America it constitutes the principal unfer- mented beverage to about fifty millions of people, who are estimated to use annually above 100,000,0001b. of the Cocoa—continued. seeds. In this country in 1820 the consumption of Cocoa- seeds was recorded as 276,4211b.; in 1860 this increased to 4,583,1241b.; and by 1880 still further, to close upon 10,000,0001b., the imports being nearly three times that quantity. In the manufacture of Cocoa and chocolate the seeds are first roasted in metal cylinders and afterwards bruised, the husks being removed by fanning. The broken seeds (or “ Cocoa-nibs,” as they are termed) are then ground on a warm slab, beneath heated rollers, until the whole forms a smooth paste. This, if left so, would be Cocoa pure and simple; but there is usually added to it other ingredients, such as starch, with the view of cheapening the article. For forming this paste into chocolate it is enriched with a large percentage of sugar, with flavourings of vanilla, cinnamon, or other sweet spices. Unfor- tunately, Cocoa and chocolate are largely adulterated, the additions consisting of sugar, starch, and flour or farina, of different plants, in varying proportions, accord- ing to the intended quality. So far these additions are harmless, but when we find animal and mineral substances, as pointed out by Hassall, in some cases to add weight, in others colour, the practice cannot be too strongly I condemned. They can mostly be detected with the microscope. The average composition of Cocoa-seeds when deprived of their husks, is nearly as follows : Oil (Cocoa-butter) ... ... 51 Starch, gum, &c. ... ... 22 Gluten, &c. ... ... 20 Water ... 5 Theobromine 2 100 Cocoa is exceedingly wholesome, and as an article of food it cannot possibly be too highly recommended. As a beverage it will not be found so refreshing as tea or coffee, because the whole of the substance is taken in the form of an emulsion into the stomach; while with tea or coffee it is only the infusion that is drunk—tea, likewise, owing to the manner in which it is prepared, losing the greater part of its principal nutritious property ' (gluten), which is left behind in the leaves. But for giving strength to the system, for building up that daily waste which is constantly going on, for supplying good and ■ wholesome food and drink at one and the same time, Cocoa (and by Cocoa is included chocolate) stands pre- eminent and far in advance of either tea or coffee. From the large amount of fat (over 50 per cent) ex- hibited in Cocoa in its pure state, it is often found to be too rich for delicate stomachs; it is for this reason that manufacturers lessen its proportion by a chemical process . or the more simple one of addition. During roasting, a volatile oil is developed, and to it the aroma is due; the principle theobromine is like tlieine, a white crystallisable substance, but contains much more nitrogen. The rest of the principles are all of exceeding importance in the formation of good flesh and blood; indeed, like milk, they contain in themselves every ingredient necessary to the growth and sustenance of the body. Cocoa-butter is a pleasant yellowish-white fat of the consistence of suet, and of an odour resembling that of chocolate. It is chiefly used for medicinal purposes. It keeps well and has no tendency to become rancid, and might therefore be used for protecting potted meats. Of the numerous Cocoas offered for sale to the public, all possibly, excepting the very cheap kinds, possess more or less characteristic value, being merely skilfully-prepared varieties of nib or flake Cocoa rendered soluble and diges- tive. Yan Houten’s preparation is famous for its sim- plicity and exquisite flavour; but there are others with excellent qualities, in which sugar and a small quantity of I arrowroot are combined — Granulated Cocoa, in which407 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa—continued. arrowroot is mixed to keep tlie fatty particles from form- ing a pasty mass; Epps’s Homoeopathic Cocoa, prepared with arrowroot and sugar; Iceland Moss Cocoa (introduced by Dunn and Hewett), which contains a certain quantity of carrageen; Maravilla Cocoa, compounded with sugar and sago-ilour; and Caraccas Cocoa, which closely resembles Maravilla. Cadbury’s preparations of Cocoa are deservedly famous for their purity and fine flavours, and the same remark applies to those made by Messrs. Fry. The addition of sugar and arrowroot, or sago, increase the nutritive qualities of the Cocoa without seriously detracting from their flavour. They have for this reason been not inaptly styled “ Cocoa soups.” There are two or three modes advocated to prepare a cup of Cocoa, and of these the following deserve to be specially recorded, particularly those prepared from the nibs, as for general use nothing can be better; but the afore-mentioned preparations maintain the palm for flavour and convenience. (1) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of prepared Cocoa with 1 pint of water and 1 pint of milk, and boil it for twenty minutes, whipping all the time with an egg-whisk. Sweeten when served. (2) Put 1J teaspoonfuls of Cocoa into a breakfast-cup, pour in a little boiling milk, and stir to a paste ; then fill up the cup with more boiling milk, sweeten to taste, and serve. If preferred, the cup may be about three-parts filled with boiling- water and then filled up with boiling milk. (3) Put 2oz. of Cocoa-nibs to lqt. of water, and boil well for rather more than half-an-hour. If Cocoa shells are used, boil for nearly an hour. Serve with sugar and boiling milk. (4) Put J teacupful of Cocoa-nibs into a saucepan with 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar and 1 gill of milk, and boil slowly for about half-an-hour ; pass the liquor through a strainer, and it is ready for use. This will keep good for a couple of days, and need only be warmed up when wanted. (5) Put 4oz. of Cocoa-nibs and 3qts. of water into a saucepan, and boil until the liquor is reduced to 5 pints, which will take about five hours ; pass it through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. The nibs should never be served with the liquor, as if they are allowed to stand for any time, they will give a bitter taste to the drink. Fig. 489. Cocoa Blanc-mange. Cocoa Bavaroise.—Boil in a saucepan ^oz. of gelatine, lOoz. of caster sugar, 1 stick of vanilla, and 1 pint of water ; then strain through a jelly-bag or napkin, and leave it to cool. Boast Jib. of Cocoa-nibs in a copper sugar-boiler over a slow fire, put them while hot in 1J pints of boiling milk, and let them steep for one hour. Put the milk and Cocoa-nibs in a saucepan, with loz. of caster sugar and the yolks of eight eggs; stir them over the fire (but do not let them boil), and add ljoz. of gelatine which has been dissolved in water; then strain through a cloth into a basin, set it on ice, stir it until it begins to set, and then add 1J pints of whipped cream. Put a cylinder-mould in the ice for a short time, take it out, and line it with the vanilla jelly, and then stand it in the ice again; when the jelly is set, till the mould with Cocoa-cream, and let it remain in the ice for two hours. Turn the bavaroise out of the mould when ready to serve. Cocoa— continued. Cocoa Blanc-mange.—Put £ pint of milk in a saucepan to boil; mix 6oz. of Cocoa with 1 teacupful of cold milk till smooth, then pour it in the saucepan with the boiling milk, stir it over the fire, and boil it for five minutes. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in a small quantity of milk, then mix it with the other ingredients. Turn the mixture into a mould, leave it till somewhat cool, and then pack it in pounded ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the blanc-mange out on to a glass or fancy dish, and surround with macaroons (see Fig. 489). Cocoa Cream Jelly. — Put 3oz. of gelatine into 14 pints of hot water, and let it dissolve ; then add to it Jib. of sugar, two eggs, and the juice of a lemon. Strain the liquor through a cloth, let it cool, add J wineglassful of Cocoa liqueur, and turn the whole into a mould packed in ice. Let it remain for an hour, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Cocoa Liqueur.—Put lib. of freshly-washed Cocoa-beans into a mortar, bruise them well, put them into a bottle or jar with lgall. of plain spirit, and add 31b. of sugar. Set the jar in a warm place, and gently rock (not shake) it daily for three weeks, so that all the flavouring will be extracted. Strain and filter the liqueur, mix in loz. of vanilla essence, pour it into small bottles, cork these up, and use as required. Cocoa Pudding1. - (1) Put Jib. of stale bread and 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, and let it boil, stirring until it becomes a thick paste; then add Jib- of caster sugar, loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of prepared Cocoa, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Take the pudding off the fire, and beat in the yolks of three eggs ; then whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the other ingredients. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. (2) Put into a saucepan 5oz. each of butter, pow- dered sugar, and finely-cut Cocoa, and the yolks of five eggs. Place the pan on the hot stove, and with a whisk stir briskly for five minutes; then take the pan off the stove. Beat up in a copper basin the whites of the fivo eggs to a firm froth, and add them to the preparation in the saucepan, mixing all well together for two minutes. Butter and sugar well six small pudding moulds, fill them with the preparation, and place them in a tin pan, filling this to half the height of the moulds with warm, but not boiling, water; put the pan in the oven for half-an-hour. Take them out, turn them out on a hot dish, and servo with cream sauce poured over. COCOA-NUTS (Fr. Noix cle Coco; Ger. Kokos- niisse; Ital. Caccai ; Sp. Cocos).— By lack of due caution in orthography a strange confusion of tongues has arisen, leading to still more curious confusions of association. Cacao, by a very simple change of pronun- ciation, has become cocoa. Coco-nut has become in our language Cocoa-nut; and, in the diction of the coster- monger, coker-nut. There is another article of com- merce—coca—recently introduced into this country, which has no more connection with the former than they have with each other; and as this yields a medicinal principle (cocaine) that has gained some con- siderable notoriety, the confusion is complete. The Cocoa-nut is the fruit of a tall, straight palm (Cocos nucifera) which flourishes in the eastern parts of Asia and the islands of the Indian Seas, whence it is imported into all parts of Europe. The nuts are found clustering under the plume of leaves, and frequently number on one palm as many as a hundred, the tree often bearing flowers and ripe nuts at the same time. When picked, the nut, as may be seen by the section shown in Fig. 490, is covered by a thick mass of fibre (Cocoa-nut fibre), so much coveted by mat-makers, over which is a thin brownish case. The nut in its green state is filled with a juice called “ Cocoa-nut milk,” which is sweet and refreshing, and used by refined natives or foreigners with coffee, or for making tasty dishes and wine. The pulp is then so soft that it may be eaten with a spoon, and with a little Madeira and lime-juice408 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. added to it, is a delicious dish. The mature nut is used by confectioners for many purposes of their art, and when rasped and dried, or desiccated, it will keep many years, if stored in a dry place. The notion that the flavour is destroyed lay drying has long since been proved erroneous. The oil expressed from the oily nut (Cocoa-nut oil) can be burned in lamps. Cocoa-nut Balls.—Put 21b. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the milk of a Cocoa-nut, stir, boil until it begins to granulate, then stir in the finely-grated Cocoa-nut, and boil for a few minutes. Turn it into buttered dishes, and when sufficiently cool make it into balls with the hand. Cocoa-nut Biscuits.—Put the whites of two eggs into a basin, beat them to a froth, and stir in gently 4oz. of caster sugar and 2oz. of desiccated Cocoa-nut. With a teaspoon place the mixture on sheets of white paper spread over a baking-sheet, and bake in a cool oven until quite hard, which will take about half-an-hour. Take them out, remove the paper by damping it, and use the biscuits when cold. Cocoa-nut Buns.--Mix with fib. of best flour, by sifting, 1 teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar. Beat 3oz. of warmed butter until creamed with Jib. of caster sugar, add the flour, and mix well; then add one egg, 5 pint of milk, and Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut. Shape the paste into buns, arrange these on buttered sheets, and bake for twenty minutes. Cocoa-nut Cake.—(1) Large.—Beat (-lb. of warmed butter with 1J breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and when it is creamy, beat in 3 5 teacupfuls of flour With which has been mixed 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; then add a little essence of lemon, the whites of ten eggs firmly beaten, and | pint of milk. Spread the paste about lin. thick on greased tins, and cover the tops with an icing in which the grated Cocoa-nut has been stirred. Pile one layer on the other, allowing a short time for drying, ice the top with plain icing, and sift a little grated Cocoa-nut over it. Bake in a quick oven. (2) Cream fib. of butter with Jib. of caster sugar, by warming and beating; then add eight well-beaten eggs, one small grated nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of essence of lemon. When these are well mixed, stir in lightly Jib. of flour and Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut alternately. Butter a tin, pour the mixture in, and bake quickly. (3) Put 1 piled table-spoonful of grated Cocoa-nut on to a sheet of paper, and let it dry for a couple of days, or use Cocoa-nuts—continued. that which is already desiccated. Put .(lb. of caster sugar and Jib. of butter into a basin, warm and beat them to a cream with the hand, and add 1 table-spoonful of milk; then add three eggs beaten quite light, and next Jib. of flour with 1 table-spoonful of baking-powder and 1 tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla mixed in. Beat all these thoroughly, and then add the Cocoa-nut, working this in. Pour the mixture into a buttered and papered tin, bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour, and turn it out. Serve when cold. (4) Beat together Jib. of butter and lib. of caster sugar, mix with them eight eggs which have been previously beaten, and sift in lib. of flour. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a little milk, and mix it with the flour and other things. Flavour with essence of lemon or vanilla. Spread a layer of the cake in a buttered tin, then a layer of icing in which there is Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, put another layer of cake on the top of that, cover the top with icing, and bake in a quick oven. (5) Small.—Work lOoz. of butter and 12oz. of sugar to a cream, add five eggs, and beat well; then add 21b. of flour with Joz. of cream of tartar and Joz. of bicarbonate of soda mixed in; next stir in 4oz. of grated Cocoa-nut, work it well until thoroughly incorporated, and pour in sufficient milk to form a dough. Put this into hoops with paper round the sides, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Serve when cold, with a little grated Cocoa-nut dusted on the tops. (6) Grate two Cocoa-nuts, mix with them the same bulk of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and the whites of two eggs. Shape the paste into balls, and bake them for twenty minutes. Cocoa-nut Candy.—(1) Put a little more than 1 teaspoonful of gum arabic into 1 pint of warm water, and dissolve it; then pour it into a saucepan, and add 21b. of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until the sugar is quite brittle, without stirring. Remove the saucepan from the fire, work in lib. of desic- cated Cocoa-nut, and stir well to thoroughly mix them ; then turn the preparation out on to a slightly-buttered baking- dish, spreading it very thin, and let it cool. If desiccated Cocoa-nut is used, about fifteen minutes will be sufficient for the boiling. (2) Put lib. of sugar and a little water into a saucepan over the fire, and boil it for about five minutes ; then add Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, stir it in, and cook until the sugar arrives at the crack degree (see Sogar-boiling). Turn the preparation out into a tin, mark it in shapes when a little cool, and when it is quite cold, break it into pieces; it is then ready for use. Cocoa-nut Candy Drops.—Boil lib. of caster sugar with about J teacupful of water for five minutes, or till the syrup hangs in threads from the spoon; then put in Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut. Take up table-spoonfuls of the candy, and drop it on a buttered baking-sheet; when cold, take them off the tin by slipping a knife underneath them. Cocoa-nut Caramels.—(1) Put 2qts. of cream or milk into a saucepan on the fire, add the grated pulp of a Cocoa-nut, and boil for a few minutes, stirring continually ; then pour it into an earthenware bowl, cover it over, and let it remain until nearly cold. Strain and press it through a fine sieve into a saucepan, add 81b. of sugar, place the pan on the fire, and stir well until the sugar is dissolved: then add 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 6oz. of paraffin-wax, and bring the mixture to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiltng), stirring continually with a spatula or wooden spoon. Pour the mixture on to a greased marble slab, fitted with iron bars, to the thickness desired, and let it stand until quite cold; cut it into bars and again into cubes, wrap these up in waxed paper, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. (2) Put in a saucepan Jib. of chocolate, 21b. of moist sugar. Jib. of butter, and 1 teacupful of milk, and let it stew until thick ; then add one grated Cocoa-nut, and stir until it boils up again; move it from the fire, flavour with 1 table-spoonful of vanilla, and pour into buttered dishes. When it has cooled a little, shape it into balls, and put these on buttered baking- sheets to dry.P o ^ CD <H.? ^ ct-’ £ *1 & I , o’ a. g H fcr1 S*~ & • ^ P 0 43 as ® S> a a-'? S- ? . h 5' 1 a® o & 3 - ' 3 <g H p f b- 43 43 cd tr1 P-< co Et t3 ® CO 0 ^ V o ^ <3 CD CO H uj 0 (-4 aq cd ® S h-43 ' O CO. P ^ o’ p- 2. •-h. tr* 6. 8»409 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. Cocoa-nut Cheesecakes.—(1) Cut off the brown outside skin of one or two Cocoa-nuts, grate them into a tinned or porcelain- lined pan, add the milk from the Cocoa-nuts, 1 pint of milk, and 12oz. of sugar, and stir well over the fire until the Cocoa-nut is quite tender. Remove from the fire, let it get cold, add six well-beaten eggs and Jib. of almond macaroons, broken up to a powder, and mix well. Should it be too thick, add a little cream to reduce it. Fill some patty-pans, lined with puff paste, with the mixture, sprinkle over a few washed and dried currants, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. (2) Put 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a lined saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and put it over the fire until dissolved; then put in 1 teaspoonful of grated Cocoa-nut, and boil it for six or seven minutes, stirring at the same time. Take the mixture off the fire, leave it until nearly cold, then stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Butter some small patty-pans, and line them with puff paste; put some of the Cocoa-nut mixture in each, and strew over them a few blanched and chopped almonds. Bake them about half-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, and lay them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Serve them hot. Cocoa-nut Conserve.—Cut off the rind of half an orange, mince it very fine, put it into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk or water, and Jib. of sugar, and boil; then add Jib. of finely-grated Cocoa-nut, 2oz. of butter, and the well-whipped whites of four eggs. Stir well until the mixture thickens, remove the pan from the fire, turn it out, and it is ready for use. Cocoa-nut Cookies.—See Cookies. Cocoa-nut Cream Balls.—Put 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered gum arabic into a basin with 5 table-spoonfuls of warm water, and dissolve it; then add gradually lib. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of extract of lemon, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of finely-minced Cocoa-nut and currants, and work it into a stiff paste. Form this into small balls, dust them well with caster sugar, and put them into the hot closet. When dry, they are ready for use. Cocoa-nut Cream Ice.—(1) Heat over the fire lib. of grated Cocoa-nut and 1 pint of cream, pour it in a basin, and add lib. of caster sugar. When cold, stir in 3 pints of cream, and freeze it. (2) Beat together three eggs and the grated rind of a lemon, put them in a double boiler or bain-marie with 1 pint of milk, and stir until the mixture begins to thicken ; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Cocoa-nut, let it cool, and add fib. of caster sugar and the juice of one lemon. Put the mixture into the freezer and freeze it. Cocoa-nut Cream Pies.—(1) Pour lqt. of milk into a sauce- pan, with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour or cornflour, Jib. of sugar, three eggs, and Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, and stir well over the fire until it thickens, then letting it cool. Have ready baked crusts or shapes of paste, fill these with the mixture, and serve with sugar dusted over the tops. (2) Put 2oz. of butter and 6oz. of sugar into a basin, beat them to a cream, stir in four eggs, Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut, and 3oz. of flour. Put this into a saucepan, pour in lqt. of milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens slightly ; then pour it into tins lined with rich puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold, as desired. Cocoa-nut Custard Pies.—Put three eggs into a basin, and beat them up with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk and 4oz. of sugar; when these are well mixed, add 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Cocoa-nut and 1 teaspoonful of extract of lemon. Put the mixture into pans lined with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, and serve. Cocoa-nut Drops. -Mix together one grated Cocoa-nut, Jib. of caster sugar, and the well-beaten whites of four eggs, flavour- ing with rose-water or lemon, and beat all well together until thick. Butter a baking-sheet, put the preparation in little heaps a short distance from each other, and bake in a hot oven till a pale yellow. Cocoa-nut "Eclairs.—See Eclairs. Cocoa-nut Fondants.—Grate a Cocoa-nut, put it into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil for five minutes Cocoa-nuts—contmued. without a cover on the pan. Put on the cover, remove the pan from the fire, and let it stand until it becomes lukewarm ; then strain, and pour it through a fine sieve. To each quart of this add 41b. of sugar, put it into a saucepan, and boil to the feather degree (see Sugak-boiling). Turn it out on to a well-oiled marble slab, let it get nearly cold, turn in the edges, work it well with a spatula and then with the hands, and cut it into shapes ; it is then ready for use. Or the sugar may be boiled to the ball degree, and after being turned out on to the slab and cooled, grated Cocoa-nut sprinkled over and worked in; and should it be required for casting bonbons, it must be re-melted by gentle heat. Cocoa-nut Frost on Custard.—Pare a Cocoa-nut, and let it steep in cold water for some time. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar with a little rose-water to prevent their oiling. Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, let it boil up, and then stir in Jib. of white powdered sugar ; when this is melted, add the almond paste. Beat up four eggs till they are quite light, and when the almond paste has boiled for three minutes in the milk, pour it on the eggs by degrees, and mix them well together. Put the mixture over the fire, and boil it gently till pretty thick; then let it cool, and when quite cold, pour it into a deep glass dish. Take the Cocoa- nut from the water,, dry it, grate it, and then heap it high over the custard. Sift some powdered sugar on top, and serve. Cocoa-nut Hardbake.—Put the thin slices from half a Cocoa- nut before the fire or in the oven to dry, arrange them on an oiled marble slab, keeping them about ^in. apart, sprinkle a good quantity of nonpareils in the cavities, and over all pour a sufficient quantity of sugar boiled to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), with cream of tartar in proportion, and coloured with cochineal, to coat to the required thickness— say about Jin. Let it cool, mark it into squares or other- wise, break it asunder when cold, and pack away in boxes. Care must be taken in pouring over the sugar not to disturb the nonpareils or Cocoa-nut more than possible. A quarter - of-an-ounce of cream of tartar is sufficient for 71b. of sugar. Cocoa-nut Ice.—Put three finely-grated Cocoa-nuts and their milk into a saucepan with 3qts. of filtered water, set the pan on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes. Pour the whole into a pan, cover it over, and let it infuse until it is nearly cold ; then strain it through a fine sieve into a freezer packed in ice, squeezing through as much as possible, and mix in thoroughly 20oz. of powdered loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs. Work the freezer vigorously, and when the ice is set, use as required. Cocoa-nut Jap.—(1) Put 41b. of finely-grated Cocoa-nut into a copper kettle or basin, add 2Jlb. of jiowdered sugar, and place the vessel on the fire to boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Have ready a slightly-greased marble slab, with iron bars on it to regulate the thickness, pour the syrup over, and let it get cold. Cover it over with a good supply of caster sugar, and with a sharp knife cut it into cubes; it is then ready for use. (2) Proceed as for No. 1, using 21b. of cornmeal and 21b. of Cocoa-nut instead of all Cocoa-nut. Cocoa-nut Lozenges.—Put ilb. of gelatine in water to soak, and sift 281b. of crushed loaf sugar on to a board, forming a bay in the centre. Put 2Jib. of glucose into a sugar-pan on the fire, bring it to the boil, remove from the fire, add the soaked gelatine, and stir well until dissolved. Turn it into the bay of the sugar, add also ljlb. of desiccated Cocoa-nut, and work the whole into a paste. Divide it into five equal parts, colour one of them a pale pink (using carmine), one yellow, one brown (using melted chocolate), and one a bright red, leaving the remaining part white. Each part must be flavoured, some with vanilla, others with lemon, and so on, according to taste or fancy. Roll out each part separately, cut them into fancy shapes with cutters, dust slightly with cornflour, and set them away to dry. The hot closet will not be required for these, as they will dry of themselves. Pack away in boxes and use as required. Cocoa-nut Milk. -Scrape or rasp two or three Cocoa-nuts, put them into a saucepan, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, and let it stand for ten or fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor through a napkin or cloth, return the pulp to410 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. Cocoa-nuts—continued. the pan, pour over more boiling’ water, and continue in this way until the required quantity of milk has been extracted. It may be put into bottles, and kept in a cool place until wanted. Cocoa-nut Milk Sauce.—For all sorts of blunc-manges and light puddings this sauce is much esteemed. It can be made either from the milk drawn from the cocoa-nut or from a liquor or cocoa-nut milk prepared as described above. With a small quantity of this milk mix quite smooth 2 table- spoonfuls of best flour, and stir into the remainder of 1 pint of the cocoa-nut milk. Warm and stir together a teacupful of cream and 2oz. of fresh butter ; when these are thoroughly incorporated without boiling, add them to the milk and flour. Continue stirring over the fire, and sweeten well with caster sugar. When the sauce is quite thick and creamy, take it off the fire, and just before pouring it into the sauceboat, stir in quickly a wineglassful of Madeira or sherry. Cocoa-nut and Orange Cream for Cakes.—Beat well one egg, add 1 breakfast-cupful of whipped cream, 1 breakfast- cupful of grated Cocoa-nut, Jib. of caster sugar, the grated rind of half and the juice of one orange, and beat all well together. This makes a nice cream for spreading between and on the tops of cakes. A little grated fresh Cocoa-nut should be sprinkled over as well. Cocoa-nut Fatties.—Rub 2oz. of lard into lib. of flour and 41b. of ground rice, and add J saltspoonful of baking powder and 1 heaped table-spoonful of caster sugar. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, then stir them with the above ingredients, and knead the mixture well. Dredge flour over the table, lay the paste on it, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Butter some patty-pans, line them with the paste, prick them here and there with a fork, and bake them in a brisk oven until half cooked. Mean- while prepare the following mixture : Beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, Fig. 491. Cocoa-nut Patty. and mix with it J table-spoonful of grated Cocoa-nut and J table-spoonful of powdered almonds. Dredge flour over the table, divide the mixture into as many portions as there are patties, roll them into balls on the floured table, then roll them flat. When the patties are half-cooked, put 1 table- spoonful of any kind of jam in each, and put the flats of paste on them. Stick here and there on the tops a few blanched almonds or pistachios (see Fig. 491), and put them in the oven. When quite cooked, take the patties out of the tins, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve hot; or they may be served cold. Cocoa-nut Pies.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a sauce- pan, boil it, and sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of starch mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when these are incorporated, add a small lump of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and two or three ounces of grated Cocoa-nut. Pour the mixture into a basin, and let it get cold ; then add the whites of three or four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, put the mixture into pans lined with puff paste, and bake until done and of a good colour. Take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Cocoa-nut Found Cakes.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream, and mix in lib. of caster sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, 1 teacupful of milk, and four eggs beaten up separately. When these are thoroughly mixed, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or powdered saleratus, and sufficient flour to make the mixture of the required consistence; then mix in lightly the grated white part of a Cocoa-nut, put the preparation to about lip. in depth into tins lined with buttered paper, place them in a sharp oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Take them out when done, and serve cold. They may be frosted or iced if desired (see Fig. 492), or baked in one tin, allowing a little longer time for cooking. A teaspoonful of essence of lemon may be used instead of the lemon- peel. Cocoa-nut Fudding.—(1) Mix well together Jib. of butter, Jib. of caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of wine, and six well-beaten eggs; then add lib. of grated Cocoa-nut, and crumble in a little stale cake or breadcrumbs. Turn the mixture into a dish, and bake it. (2) Beat Jib. of warmed butter and Jib. of caster sugar to a cream, and add 1 wineglassful of wine and rose-water mixed. Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the sugar and butter, adding grated Cocoa- nut alternately. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put the Cocoa-nut mixture in it, cover with more puff paste, and bake in a slow oven. (3) Boil Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut in J pint of milk, and while it is cooking beat 2oz. of warmed butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar until they are creamy; beat the yolks of six eggs separately, and then beat them with the sugar and butter. Take the saucepan, with the milk and Cocoa-nut in, off the fire, and stir in the sugar, butter, and eggs; when these are well mixed, add 2 table-spoonfuls of biscuit crumbs, or bread and biscuit crumbs mixed, the whites of three eggs whipped to a froth, and flavour with 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of vanilla. Turn the mixture into a pie-dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. A few minutes before the pudding is done, take it out of the oven, spread on the top the whites of three eggs whipped to a firm froth with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, put it in the oven again, and brown it lightly. (4) Grate a large Cocoa-nut very finely, add to it an equal weight of caster sugar and half that weight of butter, the latter having previously been beaten to a cream; when these are well mixed, add the yolks of four eggs and the milk of the Cocoa-nut; then whip the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and beat in with the rest. Line a pie- dish with puff paste, put in the Cocoa-nut mixture, cover the top with buttered paper, and bake slowly for one hour. (5) Put 4oz. of grated Cocoa-nut into a saucepan, pour in 3 teacupfuls of milk, bring it gradually to the boil, and let it boil for five minutes. In the meantime, beat 2oz. each of butter and sugar to a cream, add 2oz. each of breadcrumbs and stale sponge-cake crumbs, pour over slowly the boiling milk, and stir well; then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, stir them well in, add the well-whipped whites of two eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Butter the inside of a shape or mould, sprinkle it with powdered loaf sugar, decorate the top and side with halves of preserved cherries, pour in the pudding mixture, and steam for an-hour- and-a-half. Turn it out carefully, and serve with or without sweet or wine sauce. (6) Have ready six small pudding-moulds buttered and dusted with sugar, and distribute evenly in them Jib. of dried Cocoa-nut. Put into a basin 4oz. of powdered sugar, break in three eggs, mix well for two minutes with a whisk, and add 1J pints of cold milk; then flavour with 1 tea- spoonful of vanilla flavouring, and mix two minutes longer. Strain the mixture through a sieve into another basin, fill up the moulds, arrange these in a deep pan, fill this to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, put the pan in the oven, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Take the pan out, turn the puddings on to a hot dish, pour over cream sauce flavoured with J gill of brandy, and serve. (7) Grate a very small Cocoa-nut; boil 1 pint of milk with 1 teaspoonful of butter in it, pour it while boiling over the grated Cocoa-nut, and let it stand till cool; then mix in three eggs beaten with Jib. of white sugar and J saltspoonful of salt. Line a baking-dish with some rich pastry, pour the pudding into it, and bake it.411 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifcc., referred to, sec under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued. (8) Break off the shells, and peel off the brown skin of two Cocoa-nuts, and grate the white part as finely as possible ; put half of the grated Cocoa-nut in a basin with half of the milk, 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, the grated rind of a small lemon or half a large one, 1 teacupful of sugar, and Jib. of chopped candied cherries. Beat 2oz. of slightly- warmed butter with two eggs, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and mix them in with the dry ingredients. Stir the whole until well mixed. Pour the mixture into a pudding- basin, and tie a floured cloth over it; put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for two-and-a-half to three hours, keeping it well covered with the water. Before the pudding is quite done, prepare the following sauce : Put the remainder of the grated Cocoa-nut into a saucepan with 1 scant teacupful of caster sugar and J pint of water, and boil it for ten or twelve minutes, then strain it through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Put 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot into the saucepan, pour in J pint of milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling; then pour in the Cocoa-nut liquid, and boil it up again. Take the saucepan off the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolk of an egg. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, pour the sauce round, and serve. (9) Pare and grate a Cocoa-nut, beat up six eggs—the six yolks very light and the six whites to a thick froth. Soak Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs in 1 pint of milk. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with Jib. of powdered white sugar, mix in with it the beaten yolks, and then beat butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs into the pint of milk with the breadcrumbs ' in it; mix in next 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold water, then the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, grated nutmeg and rose-water to taste, and lastly the grated Cocoa-nut. Continue beating the pudding for a minute after all the ingredients are mixed, pour it into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Dredge powdered sugar on the top, and serve quite cold. Cocoa-nut Pudding -with Sponge Cake.—Remove the shell and brown skin from a Cocoa-nut, and grate it fine; save the milk of the nut, and strain it; put the grated nut into an earthen dish with lib. of stale sponge cake; add to the Cocoa-nut milk 1 table-spoonful of melted butter and enough sweet milk to make a quart, and pour it over the nut and sponge cake. Beat four eggs thoroughly, mix them with the nut and cake, add 4 piled table-spoonfuls of sugar, and put the pudding into an earthen dish. Bake for half-an- hour in a moderate oven, and then serve with powdered sugar sprinkled over. Cocoa-nut and Raisin Cream.—Stone and chop finely 1 breakfast-cupful of raisins, chop 1 teacupful of almonds, and mix them up with 1 teacupful of grated Cocoa-nut and the white of one egg beaten stiff. The cream is then ready for use. Cocoa-nut Rock.—Boil Jib. of grated Cocoa-nut and Jib. of loaf sugar in J pint of the Cocoa-nut milk ; when it begins to return to sugar, add the well-whisked white of one egg, and mix thoroughly together. Grease a tin, spread the mixture on about lin. thick, and stand the tin in a cool oven with the door open, to dry; then cut it into squares, and keep it in a dry place. Cocoa-nut Salad.—Peel the Cocoa-nut as evenly as possible, cut it into small slips, put these into a glass dish, pour a sufficient quantity of brandy over to cover them, and soak them for twenty-four hours. A large plate or dish should bo placed over the glass dish to keep in the goodness of the brandy. At the end of the twenty-four hours dust a small quantity of caster sugar over the Cocoa-nut, and serve it. Cocoa-nut Snow.—Pare a Cocoa-nut, let it steep in cold water for a time, and then grate it. Peel nine or ten good-sized ripe and sweet oranges, scrape off carefully all the inner white rind, divide the oranges into natural sections (do not cut them, pull them apart), then with a spoon tear or cut each of these into three, and remove the pips. Put a layer of these little pieces at the bottom of a glass bowl, pour two or three dessert-spoonfuls of sherry over them and dredge with plenty of powdered white sugar. Add a layer of grated Cocoa-nut, Cocoa-nuts—continued. and a layer of slices of red bananas, laid close together; con- tinue those layers alternately till the bowl is full, always adding wine and sugar to the layers of oranges. The ten oranges will require about two glasses of sherry. When the bowl is filled, heap it high with grated Cocoa-nut, sprinkle sugar on top, and ornament with slices of bananas cut crosswise. Serve at once, or the fruit, especially the oranges, will spoil. Cocoa-nut Sponge Cakes.—Put Jib. of sugar and the yolks of six eggs into a basin, beat them well, and add 4oz. of dried flour, 1 teaspoonful each of essence of lemon and salt, and the half of a nutmeg grated ; then beat in the whites of the six eggs whipped to a froth, and the grated white part of a Cocoa-nut. Have ready some square tins lined with buttered paper, put the mixture in these to about lin. in depth, put them into a sharp oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Take them out when done, cut them up into squares or shapes, and they are ready for use. They may be iced over, or not, as desired. Cocoa-nut Sponge Pudding.—Put 2 teacupfuls of milk into a saucepan, boil it, and pour it while hot over 1 tea- cupful of grated Cocoa-nut and 2 teacupfuls of stale bread- crumbs in a basin, and let it stand for several minutes ; then add a flavouring of nutmeg and 1 teacupful of crushed loaf sugar, stir well, add the yolks of three eggs and 1 table- spoonful of rose-water, and lastly the whites of the three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a dish with a thin coating of puff paste round the edge, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes, covering it over with greased paper if it should be browning too quickly. Take it out, dust the surface with powdered sugar, and serve hot or cold, as required. Cocoa-nut Stickjaw.—Put 71b. of sugar and Joz. of cream of tartar into a sugar boiler, and boil it to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; then remove the boiler from the fire, and stir in a small Cocoa-nut cut into thin slices. Hold the boiler in front of the fire for a few minutes until the Cocoa-nut is well mixed in. Turn the mixture out on to a slab divided into squares with small tins, let the sugar get cold, and it is ready for use. The Cocoa-nuts should be slightly dried before being mixed in. Cocoa-nut Sweetmeat.—(1) Break the shell of a large Cocoa- nut, and remove it; peel the nut carefully, and put it in a basin of cold water. Put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until it is reduced to a syrup; grate the Cocoa-nut, put it into the syrup, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until quite thick. Great care must be taken not to let the Cocoa-nut burn. Butter a dish or marble slab, turn the mixture on to it, and leave it until nearly cold ; then cut it into various fancy shapes, or plain bars. Keep the sweetmeat dry in boxes or jars until used. (2) Peel and grate a Cocoa-nut; put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until reduced to a thin syrup. Then put in the Cocoa- nut, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of six eggs, then move the Cocoa- nut off the fire, and stir the eggs in. When the sweetmeat is cold, put it into jelly glasses, and serve. Cocoa-nut Tart.—Put 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin, break in five eggs, and whisk well for three minutes; then add a quart of milk and a - teaspoonful of essence of lemon, work well for two or three minutes longer, and strain through a fine sieve into another basin. Line a deep pie-dish with paste, fill up with the milk preparation, and spread over 6oz. of dried Cocoa-nut. Put the tart in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes ; then take it out, and lot it get cold. Cut it up into six pieces of equal size, put theso on a napkin folded on a dish, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. Compote of Fink Cocoa-nut. Prepare as for Compote op White Cocoa-nut, adding a few drops of prepared cochineal to the first sugar. Compote of White Cocoa-nut.—Peel off the brown skin of a Cocoa-nut after taking off the shell, and soak the white part in cold water with lemon-juice and a little salt. Chop the Cocoa-nut up finely, and soak it again in lomon-juiee and salted water. Take out the pieces, wash them in fresh water,412 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cocoa-nuts—continued, and put them on a sieve to drain. Boil lib. of loaf sugar to the blow degree, stand it oil the fire, add the prepared Cocoa- nut, and give it another boil up on the fire, stirring lightly with a fork ; then take out the shreds of Cocoa-nut with a fork and put them on a sieve. Boil the sugar again, put in the Cocoa-nut, give it another boil, take it out, and drain it; squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice in the sugar, keeping the pips out, boil it to the pearl degree, put in the Cocoa-nut, stir it lightly about, and then drain it on a sieve. Separate the shreds carefully with two forks. When cold, dish it up in a pile in the compote dish, and pour round it some clear syrup flavoured with citron liqueur. Crystallised Cocoa-nut Chips.—Remove the dark skin from one or two Cocoa-nuts, and cut them up into thin slices. In the meantime, boil some sugar to a syrup, put in the slices of Cocoa-nut, and boil for about ten minutes, stirring con- tinually ; then remove the pan from the fire, stir well once more, and pour the contents on to a wire sieve, placing a vessel underneath to catch whatever syrup may run through. When the syrup is well drained, turn the chips of Cocoa-nut into a vessel with crystal sugar, mix them thoroughly up in it, and let them remain for an hour, by which time they will be ready for use. Care must be taken not to let them drain too long, or they will become too dry to take up the crystal sugar sufficiently. They should never be packed away when made, but should be left exposed to the air as much as possible. A part, or the whole, may be coloured red by mixing liquid cochineal in the sugar. Grated Cocoa-nut.—Cut off the dark outside part of a large Cocoa-nut, throwing the pieces into cold water as fast as they are peeled; take them out, drain them, rub through a coarse grater on to a dish, and serve with raspberry or other jelly for garnish. Portuguese Cocoa-nut Pudding. -Prepare a syrup with fib. of sugar, stir in |lb. of ground rice, pour in a breakfast- cupful of Cocoa-nut milk, made from two Cocoa-nuts, and stir well over the fire until the mixture thickens. Turn it out into a well-buttered dish, bake to a light brown, and serve. CODFISH {Fr. Cabillaud; Ger. Kabeljau).—This well- known fisli (Morrhua vulgaris) inhabits northern latitudes, and is caught in large quantities along the coasts of Newfoundland, millions being taken annually on the Grand Bank. The flesh forms an excellent and whole- some food, provided it is fresh and sound. To judge of this, the eye should be examined: if recently caught this will be found rising from the head and surrounded with a transparent and red substance. The gills also should be bright red, not brown, nor turning so, and the flesh should be firm and transparently white. A thick neck and well-marked yellow spots indicate good quality. See Fig. 493. Cod imported as “Newfoundland Fish” have been beheaded, split open, gutted, and salted, and are therefore somewhat coarser than the fresh Cod brought in by our own boats from the North Sea. Besides the numerous modes of cooking Cod sound, roe, liver, and tongues (described hereafter), the spawn is made into caviare, and the liver pressed and boiled for its oil, which is sufficiently familiar to certain unfortunate invalids. Young Cod, or codlings, are apt to be watery and tasteless as compared with the matured fish, which are best from about September to March. Codfish —continued. Cleaning Codfish. —It is usual first to remove the gills by cutting through their connection with the rest of the head and shoulders, and pulling them out. Then lay the fish on its back, open the belly by a straight cut down the centre, and remove the inside, carefully preserving the liver and roe, and leaving the sounds uninjured. If the fish is to be cooked whole, it should be “ scored ” to the bone transversely at intervals of 2in.; but if it is to be cooked in pieces, cut it into slices 3in. thick, and soak the fish in water for a quarter-of-an-hour. Cod is crimped by being cut up and notched with a knife whilst partly alive; but some cooks consider this to be a cruelty, and object to its practice. The following receipts for cooking Cod are carefully selected as likely to give sufficient variety to suit all tastes, and for all purposes. The fish is usually divided by the fishmonger into “head and shoulders,” “middle,” and “ tail ”; but although preference may be given to the middle cut, the tail is quite as good although not so fleshy, and the head yields in quantity the gelatine that makes such excellent soup. Codling are for the most part amenable to the same treatment on a smaller scale. See Bacalao, Beandade, Coal-fish, &c. Baked Cod.— (1) Carefully skin a large piece cut from the middle of a Cod; partially boil the roe of the fish, then pound it in a mortar with two hard-boiled eggs and sufficient grated breadcrumbs to make enough stuffing for the fish; season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel, and mix in loz. of butter and the unbeaten white of one egg ; stuff the fish with this mixture, sew it in with white thread, and bake in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, turning it frequently and basting with butter. When cooked, place the fish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. A tin baking-dish is best for cooking this fish in. (2) Get a fresh Cod not too large, clean, trim, and stuff it with good veal stuffing, sew up the aperture, truss the fish in the shape of the letter S, place it in a deep baking-dish previously spread with fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and mushrooms, add i bottle of sherry and the liquor from two dozen oysters, put it into the oven, and baste it frequently with the liquor. When it is nearly done, shake some fine raspings of bread over it, and finish baking; when done, remove the strings and place the fish upon a dish. Put £ pint of good stock into the baking- pan, warm it up, and strain the whole through a fine strainer; reduce it for ten minutes, add some brown sauce, a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne and lemon-juice, and put in the oysters (bearded); then pour the sauce round the Cod, and send it to table. (3) Take a small Cod, or the middle part of a large one, and let it lay in cold water with a teacupful of salt for half-an-hour; then take it out, wipe dry, and stuff with forcemeat made as follows: Take 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled salted pork chopped fine, 1 table-spoonful of a mixture of chopped thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, with just a very little chopped onion, and a teacupful of breadcrumbs; stir all this well together, and with a beaten eg'g mix it to force- meat. When the Cod is stuffed, put it in a baking-dish, pour over it J teacupful of melted butter seasoned with 1 tea- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and the strained juice of half a lemon, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, or longer if necessary; baste it frequently to prevent its browning too quickly. Should the sauce thicken too much in the course of the baking, add a little butter and hot water to it. When the Cod is done, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. A few capers may be added to the sauce when dishing. Baked Cod’s Head. -Take the head of a large Cod, trim and wash it well, fill the gills with veal stuffing, put the head into a deep baking-dish, season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, moisten with pint of sherry and a little ketchup, put a well-buttered paper over it, and set in the oven to bake. The fish must be well basted with the liquor while it is baking, and i pint of stock may be added to keep it moist. When the head is nearly done, sprinkle it over with fine raspings of bread, and when it is quite done put it upon a413 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish—continued. dish. Add a gill of brown sauce to the liquor in the baking- dish, strain the whole into a stewpan, put in a little essence of anchovy, 2oz. of butter, and a squeeze or so of lemon-juice : boil the sauce for three or four minutes, pour it round the Cod’s head, and serve. Baked Cod’s Head and Shoulders.—Take a good-sized pie- dish (one that the fish may be sent to table in) and put in the fish, the forepart being stuffed with some veal stuffing. Lay the fish belly downwards in the dish, pour over it a thin mixture of flour-and-water until the dish is three-parts full, sprinkle over a little pepper, and add twelve oysters with their liquor and two or three anchovies filleted and cut into small lengths. Place small lumps of butter along the back of the Cod, put the dish in the oven, and as the butter begins to melt baste the fish, and continue to do so until done. A piece of oiled paper may be placed over the back to prevent the skin from browning. When done, take out the dish, with a spoon remove as much of the liquor as possible, put it into a saucepan on the fire, and reduce by boiling (either straining or thickening as required), add a little lemon-juice (or other flavouring), pour it hot over the fish, and serve. Forcemeat balls may be used instead of the veal stuffing'; they are served placed round the dish. Boiled Cod.—(1) Prepare a good-sized fish (see Fig. 494), tie it round several times with string or tape, put it into a fish- kettle with some well-salted cold water, and place the kettle on the fire, letting it boil very gently, and frequently skimming. After it has once boiled, the fish will only take from two to three minutes longer. Take it out, remove the string or tape, and serve. The addition of the juice of half a lemon or a table-spoonful of vinegar to the water, renders the flesh very white. (2) Wash a piece of fish weighing about 21b. and put it into cold water for an hour to steep ; then take it out, put it into an oval pan with boiling water and a large handful of salt, and place the pan on the fire to boil; then let it simmer for ten minutes, skimming frequently. Take out the fish, put it on a drainer, dish it upon a napkin, surround it with parsley, and serve with melted butter or oyster sauce. (3) Take a good-sized fish, clean it, and wipe it dry. Care- fully truss the head, so that in boiling' it will keep its shape, and crimp the fillets so that the inside may be done as soon as the outside. Put the fish into the fish-kettle, cover with sufficient lukewarm salted water (that is, if it is being cooked whole; if not, the water must be boiling), boil up once, and then put the kettle by the side of the fire where it will simmer until done. Serve with oyster sauce. (4) Cut a good-sized fish into slices ; have ready a pan with salted water (the salt in the proportion of lib. to every 6qts. of water), and let the water boil; then put in the fish, and remove the pan to the side of the fire where it will simmer, letting it remain there for from twenty to thirty minutes. When the fish is nicely cooked, not overdone, take it out, remove the bone (which is easily done), and serve. If the fish is not crimped, it will require more salt to make it firm. Boiled Cod a la Hollandaise.—Remove the gills from a large Cod, pulling out the entrails where the gills form a hole, chop off the fins, well wash the fish (using plenty of water), drain and dry it, sprinkle it over with salt, placing a handful inside, and let it remain in a cold place for several hours. Take it up, wash off all the salt, tie the head up with string to keep it in place, crimp it on both sides (that is, make about six incisions about lin. deep along the sides inclining towards the head), put it into a bowl of cold water and milk, and let it disgorge for about forty-five minutes. Take it out and drain it, put it belly downwards on a drainer in a fish-kettle, Codfish —continued. pour in sufficient slightly-salted water to nearly cover it, add 2 or 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil slowly until the cuts begin to open and the flesh is firm to the touch. Put the fish in the same position on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of parsley, and serve with Dutch sauce. Boiled Cod with Anchovies.—Place a crimped Cod on a dish, and sprinkle salt all over to cover it; then put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, add sufficient boiling water to cover, and place the kettle on the fire to boil fast for five minutes, then removing it to the side and letting it simmer for ten nfinutes longer. Take out the fish on the drainer and let it drain; cover a dish with a napkin or cloth, place the fish on it, and lay fillets of anchovies and fried parsley alternately round. Make some melted butter sauce, and serve it in a sauceboat, with slices of lemon arranged on a plate. Boiled Cod with Cream Sauce.—Clean out the inside of a fresh Cod by opening the white skin of the belly, and thororrghly wash the fish all along the bone, taking care to remove all the blood with the knife-point or a stiff brush. Put the fish on a drainer, place it in a fish-kettle with salted water, and boil it fast at first and then slower. When done, take it out on the drainer and drain it, remove the skin, and pour over it some sauce made as follows: Put lib. of fresh butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of Hour, and moisten with 1 pint of good cream, adding 1 pinch each of salt and cayenne, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies ; place the pan on the fire, let the sauce thicken, but not boil, and work it well with a spoon. Serve either over the fish, or separate in a tureen. Boiled Cod with Oatmeal (Scotch Style).—Clean and wash a Cod’s head and shoulders, or a small fish. In the mean- time, soak in water seasoned with salt and pepper as much oatmeal (coarse Scotch) as will be required to stuff the fish, and let it remain for thirty minutes. Stuff the fish with this, wrap it up in a cloth, and boil it. Should the oatmeal not be quite fresh, dry it in the oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour before soaking. Boiled Codling with Oyster Sauce. -Prepare a fresh fish weighing about 31b. (see Fig. 495), put it in a saucepan or fish-kettle with drainer, cover with well-salted fish stock, and cook slowly for thirty minutes. Take it out, drain well, lay it on a dish, and garnish with a few branches of parsley and slices of boiled potatoes. Serve with oyster sauce separately. Boiled Middle of Cod a la Flamande. — Take a good- sized Cod, from the centre cut out a slice of about 7in. or Sin. in width, remove the scales, wash the fish Fig. 496. Boiled Middle of Cod a la Flamande. thoroughly, score the sides of it, place it in a basin, cover with salt, and leave for twenty-five minutes to macerate. Well wash the fish to remove the salt, in the belly part put414 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PR AC TIC AL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish—continued. Codfish—continued. a large raw carrot, tie it loosely with string, and put it belly downwards on the drainer of a fish-kettle, pouring enough cold water over to cover it, with 1 handful each of parsley and salt. Put the kettle on the fire and let it boil up, and as soon as it commences to bubble remove to the side and let it remain for twenty-five minutes longer. Take the fish out, put it on a napkin to drain, place it on a dish, and surround with parsley. Serve with some potato croquettes and a sauceboatful of Flemish sauce. See Fig. 496. Boiled Salted Cod.— (1) Take about 21b. of salted Cod and put it into tepid water for six hours to steep; then take it out and put it for the same length of time into cold water, changing this about every hour-and-a-half. Take a gallon saucepan, put in the fish, fill up the saucepan with water, and put it on the fire ; when it boils, put it on the side, and let it simmer for five minutes longer. Take out the fish, put it on a strainer to drain, place it on a dish, pour over ^lb. of butter, melted and mixed with the juice of a lemon, surround with a garnish of eight plain-boiled potatoes, and serve. (2) Take half a salted Cod, cut it into large squares, put it into cold fresh water, and let it remain for three days, changing- the water every day. Scale it, put it into a stew- pan with plenty of cold water, put the lid on the pan, and place it on the fire to boil; as soon as it commences to bubble remove it to the side, and let it simmer for twelve or fifteen minutes longer. Take out the fish with a skimmer, put the pieces on a cloth, take out the large bones, put the fish on a dish, and baste it with clarified butter mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little parsley and grated nutmeg. Garnish the dish with potatoes, and send to table. (3) Prepare and boil a salted Cod as for Boiled Salted Cod No. 1. When done, take it out, drain, and serve with the following sauce: Take some onions, cut them into small dice, fry them in butter until they are a nice light brown, sprinkle over a little flour, and moisten them with a little cream or milk ; when they are done, add a good-sized piece of butter and seasoning-. Place tbe fish in the sauce, warm all up together, and serve. (4) Take a good-sized fish, remove all the salt from it by steeping in water, place it in a large fish-kettle, and put on the fire to boil; when it commences to boil, remove to the side of the fire, and keep warm. Take two or three heads of garlic, pound well, and put them into a stew- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil, 4oz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan on the fire, shaking it fre- quently ; then put in the fish while it is quite hot, and continue to shake until all are well mixed. A little lemon-juice added effects a great improvement; and if the sauce is not mellow enough, put in a little more oil, with a table-spoonful of veloute sauce. Boiled Salted Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel. This is prepared the same as for Boiled Salted Cod with Egg Sauce, excepting that ilb. of melted maitre-d’liotel butter is used instead of the egg sauce. Boiled Salted Cod -with Brown Butter.—Prepare and cook the fish as for Boiled Salted Cod (No. 1). When it is done, put it on a dish, pour over 1 pint of brown butter, and garnish with fried parsley. Boiled Salted Cod with Egg1 Sauce.—(1) Chop as fine as possible lib. of freshly-salted Cod that has been soaked, boiled, and allowed to get cold. Mix 1 teaspoonful of corn- flour with 1 teacupful of milk till smooth, and stir it over the fire till it thickens; add to this £lb. of mashed potatoes rubbed through a sieve, 2oz. of butter, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, two well-beaten eggs, and pepper to taste. Stir till very hot, and then serve. (2) Prepare the fish as for Boiled Salted Cod (No. 1). Boil two eggs for ten minutes, cut them up into large dice, and mix them into 1 pint of melted butter sauce. Take the fish out when done, place it on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Salted Cod with Spinach.—Choose a good, white’ and thick, salted Cod, cut it in halves, and soak one half in cold water for two or three days, changing the water fre- quently ; then take it out, cut it into square pieces, and boil these in a stewpan on a good fire in plenty of water. When the liquid commences to boil, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let it continue simmering for from twelve to fifteen minutes. When done, take out the pieces of fish, place them on a strainer, let them drain, remove all the bones and the skin, and cut the fish up into smaller pieces. Take 4 large handfuls of spinach, wash and chop it, put it into a frying-pan with a little oil, and add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; add presently a handful of bread- crumbs, and mix them in well, next adding sufficient milk to moisten all, but still keeping the contents moderately stiff ; then put the pan on the fire, boil for ten minutes, and put in the pieces of Cod. Place them on a gratin-dish in layers, with oil spread on top of each layer, and with a knife or spatula smooth the oil on the top layer; dust over some breadcrumbs, baste well with oil, and bake for thirty minutes in a moderate oven. When it is done, serve. Buttered Cod.—Prepare a Cod and soak it as for Crimped Cod ; then drain it. Have ready a piece of butter as large as an egg, melted and hot. Dust the fish with flour to absoi-b all the water, divide it into small pieces, and lay these in the hot butter, stirring well for about five minutes. Turn it all out upon a dish, pepper to taste, and serve. Buttered Salted Cod.—Pick the flesh off the bones of the fish and soak it for half-an-hour or so in cold water. When ready, drain the fish thoroughly, then mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in it. Put loz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, put in the fish, and stir it over the fire for six or seven minutes. When cooked, turn the fish on to a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pepper over, and serve. This is a very simple but tasty dish, which makes a good relish for break- fast or luncheon. Cod a la B>oyale.—Choose a small fish, or the tail end of a large one, clean it, open it down the back on each side of the bone with a knife, and fill it up with some stuffing made as follows: Take the crumb of a French roll and rub it through a rather coarse sieve; chop loz. of beef-suet or fat bacon very small, and add a little dried parsley, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; mix these well together, adding an egg and a teaspoonfnl of essence of anchovy. Next make a break- fast-cupful of thin melted butter sauce, add the juice of a lemon, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and put this into a baking-dish (taking one in which the fish can be sent to table). Put the fish into this, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, frequently basting, so as not to allow it to brown. If the sauce should become too thick, put in a little water, a piece of butter, and a few drops of anchovy. When the fish is quite done, pour over the sauce, and serve. Cod an Gratin.—(1) Clean a fresh Cod and prepare it by tying up the head with string and filling the inside with rnaitre- d’hotel butter; then put the fish belly downwards on a buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, and pour over it a mixture made as follows: Melt lib. of butter in a saucepan, put in 3qts. of chopped mushrooms, two blanched and chopped shallots, 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, the juice of two lemons, a pounded clove of garlic, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; all of these being well mixed and partly cooked before being used. Pour over the fish 1J pints of white wine, and bring it quickly to the boil; then place the kettle in a slack oven and let it boil gently but continually for an-hour-and-a half, basting the fish about every ten minutes with the liquor. If the flesh is firm, put the Cod on a dish, pour over half of its stock, and servo with the remainder in a sauceboat. Any fish sauce may also accompany it. (2) Take half a Cod (the tail end is the best for this) and cut off both the fillets. Butter a gratin-dish and sprinkle it with a little minced onion and finely-chopped raw mushroom. Place the fillets side by side on the dish, add a little season- ing, and dust over with minced parsley and mushrooms, and lastly, breadcrumbs. Put the dish in a hot oven, and bake for from ten to twelve minutes ; then take it out, pour over a little brown sauce, replace it in the oven, and cook for seven or eight minutes longer. Serve the fish on the dish upon which it was cooked. (3) Clean a fresh Cod and prepare it for boiling; put it on the fire in cold water with a handful of salt, and let it boil gently for five minutes. Remove it from the kettle, lay it in a tin or dish, and spi'ead over it a mixture made as follows: Put in a stewpan ilb. of butter, pints ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 415 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. chopped mushroom?, four shallots, a handful of parsley, both chopped very fine, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste ; stir the whole on the fire until cooked, and then add 1 gill of thick brown sauce. Having covered the Cod with this, sprinkle over it some breadcrumbs previously browned in a saute-pan, and put it in the oven for three- quarters-of-an-hour ; then take the Cod from the pan and put it on the dish on which you are about to serve it. Add f pint of good fish stock, bring to the boil, strain into a sauceboat, and serve with the Cod. Cod au Gratin with Cream.—(1) Take the tail piece of a fresh Cod, clean and score it, and boil in salted water, with a little parsley. When it is quite done, drain it, wipe it with a napkin, open down the back, and remove all the bones, breaking the meat into pieces. Place these pieces in layers on a gratin-dish, and between the layers put a little bechamel sauce slightly reduced with cream but still pretty thick, and finished at the time with a piece of butter and a little grated nutmeg. Sprinkle a few breadcrumbs or grated Parmesan on the top layer, and brown it, either with a salamander or by putting it into the oven for a few minutes. (2) Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, stir over the fire until well mixed, add 1 teacupful of milk, and boil for a few minutes ; add a little cayenne, nutmeg, and pepper, and J teaspoonful of salt, and boil up again ; lastly adding the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, stirring vigorously as each one is added. Have ready lib. of Cod’s-flesh picked in flakes, put this into the pan, and toss frequently until it is quite hot. Turn the whole out in a heap on a hot dish, sprinkle over about 3oz. of fried breadcrumbs, and serve. Cod Balls.—Remove the bone from a piece of fish, make the weight up to 6oz., soak it a little while in cold water, put it into a saucepan with water, and boil for half-an-hour. Look it well over when boiled in case of any small pieces of bone being left, and then pound it to a pulp. Boil lib. of potatoes, and when quite done and soft strain and mash them up with the fish, adding 1 table-spoonful of butter (melted) and one egg. Take out some of the fish, &c., make it into balls or flat pieces (having the hands well floured), throw these into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling fat, and fry till of a light brown colour. Cod Broiled as in Turkey.—Rub some slices of Cod over with salt and flour; then grease a gridiron with olive oil, place the fish upon it, and set it over a moderate charcoal fire, turning it constantly till browned on both sides. Put a layer of finely-chopped onions and parsley at the bottom of a hot dish, and when the slices of fish are cooked lay them upon it. Garnish with cut lemons, and serve while very hot. Cod Cake.—Remove the skin and bone from a piece of fish weighing about lib., being careful not to break it up into too small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a stowpan ; when it is melted put in 1 teaspoonful of flour, set the pan on the fire, and stir it frequently for about three minutes; then add a teacupful of milk, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, and keep the pan on the fire until it boils, then putting in the fish, stirring constantly. Cut two hard-boiled eggs into eight pieces each, put them in the sauce with lib. of finely- mashed potatoes, stir them all together, pile up on a dish, and put into the oven for a few minutes to brown; or use a salamander. Garnish the dish with slices of hard- boiled eggs. Cod Chowder.—Bone and clean a small fresh Cod, and cut it into thin slices. Put a layer of thin slices of fat pork at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of sliced onions with a mixture of sweet herbs, and then some of the slices of Cod, which cover with a layer of biscuits. Nearly fill the stew- pan with alternate layers, season with salt and pepper, and pour in about lqt. of water; then put on the lid, solder round the edges with water-paste to keep it air-tight, put hot ashes on the top, renewing them occasionally, and stand the pan over a slow fire. In about four hours the chowder will be cooked. Skim it well, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Cod Omelet. - Break into small pieces the thickest parts of a cooked Cod, and season with a little grated nutmeg and Codfish—continued. pounded mace ; beat up six eggs and mix with this, forming it into paste, which fry as an omelet, and serve as hot as possible. Cod-and-Oyster Pie.—Remove the skin and bone from 21b. of cooked Cod, and divide the flesh into flakes. Scald a dozen oysters in their own liquor, drain (reserving the liquor), beard them, and cut in halves. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for a minute or two, pour in the oyster liquor and 1 teacupful of fish stock, stir well until they boil, and add 1 teacupful of milk; then boil up once more, taking care to remove any lumps, add ^ table-spoonful each of anchovy sauce and chopped parsley, teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Put this sauce on one side. Put into a pie-dish about half of the fish, cover over with half of the oysters and half the sauce, and sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and next a few breadcrumbs, continuing in this way with the remainder of the ingredients; then cover with a few small lumps of butter, put a thin covering of paste over all, and bake in a slow oven. Take it out when done, and serve hot or cold, as required. The crust may be omitted, and the pie merely covered with breadcrumbs and baked. Cod Pie.—Take a thick slice from the middle of a small Cod, put it in a dish, sprinkle plenty of salt over, and leave it for the night. On the following day wash the fish, rub it well with a mixture of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put it in a pie-dish, place two or three small lumps of butter on it, pour in a small quantity of any kind of broth, cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but do not let it brown; then mix in gradually 1 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of broth, and season with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, continuing to stir it over the fire till it boils. Oysters may be added to the sauce if liked. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and serve it with the sauce in a sauce- boat. Cod with Saffron Sauce (Spanish).—Pour 1 gill of oil into a saucepan and mix in a little chopped parsley and garlic, the juice of a lemon, a blade of saffron, a small quantity of flour, and salt to taste. Let the whole brown slightly, taking care to keep it well stirred. Cut the Cod (or part of one) into slices or pieces, put them into the pan, and continue stirring gently until the fish is evenly and well coloured on both sides. Then pour in a sufficient quantity of water to form the sauce, boil up once, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve. Cod Saute.—Take a piece of fish that has been boiled, but not overdone, remove the skin and bones, pick it into flakes, and put these into a saute-pan with a little butter, pepper, salt, finely-minced parsley, cayenne, and the juice of a lemon. Put the pan on the fire and toss freely, and when the contents are quite hot, the fish is ready to serve. Cod Toast.—Take some pieces of cooked Cod and put them into water for ten or twelve hours to refresh ; then take them out, pick them to pieces, and add some cream with an egg beaten up in it and made quite hot. Have ready some slices of toast, and pour the mixture over them. Beat up two or three eggs, add them to some gravy, seeing that it does not curdle, pour this also over the toast, and serve. Crimped Cod.—Cut a crimped Cod (which should be quite fresh) into rather thick slices, and lay these for about three hours in salted water with a little vinegar. Three-parts fill a fish-kettle with water, put in a large handful of salt, and let it boil quickly ; then put in the Cod, keep it boiling for ten minutes, and it will be done. Take out the slices of fish with care, lay them upon a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, sliced lemon, and horseradish scraped into curls, and serve with shrimp and oyster sauces in sauce- boats. Crimped Cod with Oyster Sauce.—Take as many slices of crimped Cod as may be required, put them into boiling water with a handful of salt, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an- hour. When done, drain the fish, and put it on a dish with some pieces of the liver, which should be boiled apart, as the oil spoils the colour of the Cod, and very likely would injure416 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. the flavour as well. Send to table with oyster sauce in a boat. The whole fish or part of it can be served the same way. Curried Cod. —Take off the skin from lib. of Cod, remove the bones, and cut up the flesh into pieces about lin. square. Melt 2-oz. of butter in a saucepan, add a finely-chopped onion, and fry it; then add 1 teaspoonful each of curry-powder and chutney, stir well for a few minutes, pour in I5 tea- cupfuls of white stock, season with \ teaspoonful of salt, and boil gently for twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Now put in the fish, cover over the pan, and toss it over the fire for ten minutes longer, or until the fish is cooked. Care must be taken not to break up the pieces in cooking. Take out the pieces of fish, and put them on a dish; add 1 table- spoonful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice to the liquor, pour it over, and serve hot with boiled rice as an accompani- ment. Fillets of Cod a la Hollandaise.—Take as many fillets of Cod as may be required, place them in a well-buttered sauttl- pan, add 1 gill of stock, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley over (or lobster coral rubbed through a wire sieve may be sprinkled over half the fillets, the remainder of them being sprinkled with the parsley), and put in the oven with a buttered paper over them (or they can be cooked upon the stove). When ready, dish them up upon a border of mashed potatoes, one green-coloured fillet and one red, in the form of a circle, so that they overlap each other, pour | pint of Dutch sauce over them, and serve. Fried Cod.—Take any piece of a Cod, cut it into slices not thicker than |-in., dust over these a little salt and pepper, and let them remain for two or three hours. Wipe the slices dry with a cloth, dip them first into yolk of egg and then into finely-sifted breadcrumbs mixed with an equal quantity of flour, and well seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling fat, and fry them quickly. The tail piece of the Cod is the best for frying, and after the skin and bones are removed cut it into slices and press them flat with a cutlet-bat. Caper or piquant sauce is usually served with this. Fried Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take as many fillets of Cod as may be required, trim them, and dip them in flour. Next rub some breadcrumbs through a wire sieve, and whisk up two or three eggs, adding a pinch of salt; dip the fillets of Cod in the eggs, pass them through the breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden brown. Build them round upon a fancy dish-paper so that they overlap each other and form a circle, garnish with a bunch of fried parsley in the centre and one at each end, and serve with maitre-d’hotel sauce in a boat. Fried Cod Cutlets.—(1) Take about 2Jlb. of Cod cut into fin. slices across the fish, cut each slice into strips about ljin. wide, and wipe them dry with a clean cloth. Beat up an egg, and have some fine breadcrumbs ready. Bub the pieces of fish lightly with a mixture of salt and pepper, dip them in the beaten egg, roll them in the breadcrumbs till covered, and fry in lard, taking care that they are covered with it, and that the lard is boiling hot when they are put into it. Lard does not boil till the bubbling goes off and it becomes quite still. When the cutlets are done, lay them on a sheet of paper to drain, put them on a dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once, garnished with fried parsley. (2) Procure the tail end of a fish, cut off slices about lin. thick, rub them well with lemon, season with salt and pepper, ] dry on a cloth, dip them into yolk of egg, and sprinkle over breadcrumbs seasoned with dried and sifted parsley. Put the cutlets into a frying-basket, and place this in a frying- pan with boiling fat. When the cutlets are done—this can be ascertained by sticking a skewer or fork into one ; if the flesh is firm, it is done—take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, and they are then ready for serving. A little egg sauce may be dished up with them. Fried Cod Cutlets a la Heine.—First prepare the sauce : To 1 breakfast-cupful of good brown beef-gravy, add 1 wine- | glassful of brown sherry, the strained juice of half a lemon, I 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a very little chopped onion (not more than a saltspoonful), 1 teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup (or if preferred, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sluice), I Codfish—continued. and pepper and salt to taste. Blend in smoothly 1 table- spoonful of browned flour, put the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, stir till it boils, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Take about 211b. of Cod cut into Jin. slices across the fish, cut each slice into strips about l|in. wide, and wipe them dry with a clean cloth. Beat up an egg, and have some fine breadcrumbs ready. Bub the pieces of fish lightly with a mixture of salt and pepper, then dip them in the beaten egg, roll in the breadcrumbs till covered, and fry in lard, using sufficient to cover them. Take care that the lard is boiling hot when the cutlets are put into it. When the cutlets are fried, lay them evenly over the bottom of a stewpan, pour the sauce over them, and let all get thoroughly hot slowly together, but not allowing them to boil. Take the cutlets up carefully, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. Fried Cod and Haddock.—Use equal quantities of fresh Cod and haddock. After the fish have been scaled and drawn, split them down the backs, take out the backbones, cut the fish into pieces about 2in. square, season with salt and pepper, and roll in corn-meal. For 31b. or 41b. of fish, slice jib. of salted pork, put it into a frying-pan and brown it, then lay it on a dish and keep hot. If the pork does not yield sufficient dripping, add enough lard to the fat in the pan to cover the bottom to a depth of fin; set the pan over the fire, and when the fat is smoking hot put in the fish and brown it on both sides. Serve it with the fried pork. Fried Cod Steaks. -Choose either the tail or head part of a good-sized fish, cut it up into steaks, dust over a little salt and breadcrumbs, and fry to a light brown in boiling fat; or they may be fried covered with batter. Fried Salted Cod.—Take a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onion, and put them into a stewpan with a little oil; place this on the fire, and fry its contents until the onion is of a light colour; then take out the garlic, and pour in pint of tomato sauce (not very thick). Cut a dry salted Cod in halves, take one half and cut it into good-sized squares, flour these well, and fry them in oil; when done, take them out, drain, put them into the saucepan with the sauce, place the pan by the side of the fire, and let the whole simmer for fifteen minutes, when it will be quite ready to be served. Grilled Cod.—Put 1 pint of sweet oil into a dish, with two onions cut in slices, two bay-leaves in small pieces, a few sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, the strained juice of two lemons, and grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Clean a Cod, lay it in the above marinade, and let it soak for two or more hours. Take up the fish with as little of the marinade as possible, rub it well with oil, put it on a gridiron, dust it slightly with salt, and broil it on both sides until done. Place it on a dish, and serve with fish sauce. Hashed Cod (American).—Take about 1 teacupful of cooked Cod, pick it to pieces, and put it to soak in cold water for about twelve hours. Boil some potatoes, and mash and work them until they are quite soft. Take the fish out of the water, put it into a chopping-bowl, and mince it very fine ; then add the potato a little at a time, work this well until about five parts of potato are well mixed in with one of fish, season to taste, put it into a pan, and warm it, stirring continually. Have some butter heated in the spider, put the hash into it, press it in firmly, and let it cook gently. When it is brown, turn it out, being careful not to break it, and serve on a dish. Matelote of Cod.—Take a fish weighing about 51b., remove the head and bones, and fill the inside with a stuffing made with j pint of oysters, 1 pint of breadcrumbs, teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, one egg, half a large onion, and j table-spoonful of parsley finely chopped. Cut off six good slices of fat bacon, put three of them on the top and the remainder underneath the fish, put the fish on a pan, and bake it in a good oven for an hour, basting frequently with butter and gravy made from the bones boiled in 1 pint of water. Have a little season- ing in the corner of the baking-pan. Take out the fish, put it on a dish, and with its stock make a good gravy, which pour round on the dish.417 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. Nantucket Style of Cooking1 Cod. - Take a white dried fish, cut out the thick part, and soak it in water for ten or twelve hours; then chop it up into smaller pieces, put these in a saucepan with fresh water, and boil them for a few minutes. Pour off the water, add fresh, and boil for a few minutes longer ; then pour off the water from the pan, letting the fish remain, add milk in sufficient quantity to a little more than cover it, and place the pan on the fire ; when it is warm, put in a little piece of butter and a pinch of pepper. Mix a little flour in some milk, and stir it in for a few minutes, when the dish will be ready to serve. Rechauffe of Cod.- -(1) Take some boiled pieces of fish and remove the bones and skin ; put these latter into a stewpan with a little good broth, place the pan on the fire, and reduce rapidly by boiling without a cover on the pan ; add to this an equal quantity of cream or milk flavoured with a little essence of anchovy, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste, and make it thick by adding corn and wheat-flour in equal parts. Put the fish into this while it is quite hot. Butter a dish, sprinkle over dried breadcrumbs, put the fish on this, dust more crumbs over the fish, put a small piece of butter on the top, and place the dish in a sharp oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then serve. (2) Remove the skin and bones of any pieces of boiled Cod while they are warm, place them in layers in a dish, and season each layer with spice and salt. Continue the layers until the dish is full. Put the skin and bones of the fish into a pan with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled, boil this until all the goodness is out, pour off the liquor through a strainer, and let it stand a little to settle ; then add it to the pieces of Cod in the dish. The addition of a few oysters, shrimps, or hard-boiled eggs will be a great improvement. Make a light crust, cover the dish, and bake in a brisk oven until done. (3) The same as No. 2, excepting that it is made into patties, with the fish cut up into small pieces, mixed into a paste with milk or cream, and well seasoned. (4) Pick off the flakes, put them into a saucepan with the sauce (if any) that is left, and twelve or fourteen oysters with their liquor. If there is not sufficient to moisten the fish, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of butter wanned to melting-. Place the pan over a gentle fire, and when its contents are quite hot, put it on one side. Have ready some boiled and mashed potatoes, put them on a dish, leaving a hollow in the centre, place the fish in this, and sprinkle over it (not over the potatoes as well) breadcrumbs or biscuit-raspings. Brown the surface with a salamander or in the oven, and when a good colour serve it. Salted Cod a la Bonne Pemme.—Have ready about 21b. of soaked, cooked, and boned Cod, and prepare it the same as for Salted Cod cooked in Biscayan Style. Put it into a saucepan, moistening with J pint each of bechamel sauce and German sauce ; add three potatoes and three hard-boiled eggs (all cut into thin slices), and J pinch of pepper. If too thick, put in a little milk. Cook for about five minutes, then serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salted Cod cooked in Biscayan Style.- Bone 21b. of Cod and soak it in cold water for a day, changing the water as often as possible; then place it in a saucepan with a good supply of fresh water, and simmer over a slow fire till boiling. Take it out, drain well, return to the pan with fresh water, and let it come to the boil again; then take it out and scale it. Fry together in a saucepan two chopped onions and one green pepper in 1 gill of oil for five minutes; add one good- sized tomato cut in pieces, one clove of bruised garlic, and one chilli pepper (capsicum). Moisten the ingredients in the saucepan with 3 pints of broth, add a bouquet garni, 3 table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and 1 pint of peeled potatoes, and cook for forty-five minutes; then add the Cod, and boil again for five minutes longer. Dress it on a hot dish, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Salted Cod served in Brown Butter.—The fish must be soaked in cold water for two days, and the water changed constantly; then scrape off the scales, clean and wash thoroughly, lay it in a fish-kettle, and place over a slow fire until boiling. Move the kettle to the side of the fire, skim off any scum that may have risen to the top of the water, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Put 4oz. of 1 Codfish continued. butter into a frying-pan, and place it over the fire; when it is hot, put in a few sprigs of parsley, and fry until brown. Drain the fish, being careful not to break it, and lay on a hot dish; pour the butter and parsley over, and serve while very hot. Salted Cod with Cheese. -Soak some Cod for two days in water, this being constantly changed; then clean it, scrape off the scales, put it into a fish-kettle with a lump of salt and suffi- cient cold water to cover it, and boil gently for ten minutes. Drain the Cod, baste with warmed butter, roll in grated Parmesan cheese, giving it a good coating all over, lay on a baking-dish, strew a small quantity of finely-grated bread- crumbs over it, and put in a brisk oven until browned. When cooked, lay the Cod on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few neat sprigs of parsley, and serve while very hot. Salted-Cod Salad.—(1) Soak some small square pieces of salted Cod in cold water, changing the water occasionally. After soaking for ten or twelve hours, drain and dry the pieces of fish on a cloth, brush them over with warmed butter, and broil over a clear fire. Peel and boil five potatoes; when cooked, drain them, cut into slices, and while hot . place them in a salad-bowl; put in the pieces of fish, pour in 1 wineglassful of Rhine wine, lay a plate over the bowl, and leave the salad till cold. Pick and wash a small quantity of endive, put it in the bowl with the other ingredients, add two or three anchovies that have been skinned and cut into fillets, and about 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. Mix together in equal quantities some vinegar and oil, and season to taste with sugar, pepper, and salt. Pour the dressing over the salad, stir it lightly with a fork, and serve. (2) Cut three rather large pieces of flesh from a salted Cod, divide each piece into halves, put them in a basin of cold water, and leave all night. On the following day, drain the pieces of fish, dry them on a cloth, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, and broil over a clear fire. Leave the fish till cold; then flake it or tear it apart with two forks, cover with oil and vinegar in equal quantities, season with pepper and salt, and let it stand for an hour. Wash and drain some lettuces, and put them in a salad-bowl; then drain the pieces of fish and put them in. Pour some mayonnaise dressing over the salad, arrange tastefully on it some rings of lemon-peel and some picked shrimps or prawns, and serve. Salted Cod on Toast.—Separate the flesh of some salted Cod from the skin and bones, flake it, soak in cold water for half-an-hour, and then drain it well. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and 1 table-spoonful of flour with the fish; beat one egg with £ teacupful of milk, stir it into the fish mixture, season with salt and pepper, turn it into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire till hot. Cut some moderately-thick slices of bread off the bottom of a household loaf, toast and butter them, season with pepper and chopped parsley, and lay them on a hot dish. Spread the fish mixture on the toast, and serve it while very hot. Scallops of Cod.—Take any pieces of cold cod, remove all the bones and skin, and divide the flesh into small pieces or flakes. Prepare a cream sauce, or if preferred work 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce with a good lump of butter over the fire, seasoning with a little salt and pepper. When the butter is well mixed in with the sauce, put in the pieces of fish, and mix them well, so that the sauce will work well into the fish. Let the mixture stand until it is cold. Garnish a dish with small slices of fried bread, put the scallops in the centre, smooth them over with a knife or spatula, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and baste with a little butter, and then brown the top with a salamander. Place round the dish croutons of bread cut in various shapes and toasted. Stewed Cod.— (1) Cut some Cod into slices about ljin. in thickness, put them in a fish-kettle with enough boiling water to cover them and a good-sized lump of salt, and boil for five minutes ; then take the slices out carefully and drain well. Put some white stock into a saucepan (allowing 1 teacupful to every pound of fish), and 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and put this over the fire to get hot. Mix together in a basin for each pound of fish 1 teaspoonful of ground rice, ^ wineglassful of sherry, 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a very small quantity each of 2 N418 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. cayenne pepper and mace. Make these ingredients quite s_mooth with a very small quantity of cold water, then mix them in the hot stock, and boil for two or three minutes. Move the stock to the side of the fire, put in the fish, and let it simmer gently for six or seven minutes. When cooked, take the slices of fish gently out of the saucepan with a fish- slice, arrange on a hot dish, pour th.e sauce over them, and serve while very hot. The dish may be garnished with oysters warmed in their own liquor. (2) With a sharp knife take off the flesh in long slices from the tail end of a Cod weighing 21b. or 31b.; cut each piece up into three or four smaller pieces, and put these into flour seasoned with salt and pepper; then place them in a frying- pan and fry gently. Take the bone of the Cod and put it into a pan with one finely-chopped onion, three or four peppercorns, a little bundle of sweet herbs, and lqt. of water, and boil for one hour. Pass the liquor (which will be about 1 pint) through a conical strainer into another pan, and thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour made into a smooth paste with cold water; drop the pieces of fish in this, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes by the side of the fire. Just previous to serving-, add a few drops i of vinegar, and dish up. (3) Scotch Style.—Take a large stewpan, put into it 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions, 20 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, 2 table-spoonfuls each of Harvey’s fish sauce and essence of anchovies, and 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar. From a good-sized piece of fish cut off two large slices, put these in the pan with the onions, &c., and place the pan over a good sharp fire. When the contents commence to boil, put the pan by the side of the fire and let it simmer for lialf-an-hour; then turn the slices of fish and let them simmer for fifteen minutes longer. Put the fish on a dish, add a little sugar to the pan, and boil fast so as to reduce the stock until it is thick. When done, pour it over the fish, and serve. Stewed Cold Salted Cod (Amebican).—Take a piece of cooked fish, and break it up in small pieces, separating the fibres as much as possible (the finer it is, the better). Put the pieces in water in a saucepan and let them remain for an hour ; pour off the water, add fresh, make it hot, and pour it off; then add just sufficient water to cover the fish. To about lqt. of the soaked fish put in a piece of butter about half the size of an egg, a little flour, and 1 pinch of pepper; then beat up two eggs and mix them in. When hot, turn it out of the pan, and serve. Stewed Salted Cod.—(1) Choose a piece of salted Cod, say about lib. in weight, cut it into squares, and put into a stewpan with plenty of cold water; place the pan on the fire, and when its contents boil remove it to the side, put on the cover, and let it remain for ten minutes. Take out the Cod, put it on a strainer to drain, remove the bones, and put it into a flat stewpan; chop d^-oz. of butter into small pieces, put these in the pan, and add a little grated nutmeg and 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter sauce; also add a little finely-chopped parsley and the juice of two lemons. Place the fish on a dish, and surround it with a garnish of croutons of fried bread. (2) Scrape and cut into four pieces or squares about 21b. of salted Cod. If it is a dry fish, it must be put into cold water and left for a couple of days; but if salted in tubs, a' few hours will do. Pour some cold water into a stewpan, put in the fish, and place it on a good brisk fire. When it begins to bubble, remove the pan to the side, and let it remain for twelve or fifteen minutes. Take out the fish, put the pieces on a strainer to drain, remove the bones, and break the pieces up small. In the meantime, take a medium-sized onion, chop it very fine, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry gently so as not to give it a colour. Put in the pieces of Cod, take the pan off the fire, and toss the fish so as to get the butter well spread over it; when all this butter has gone, put in some more, a little at a time, until 6oz. in all has been used. Care must be taken to turn the pan j round continuously. The mixture in the pan should by this , time be thick and creamy. Add a little grated nutmeg, finishing } up with the juice of a lemon and a little finely-chopped parsley. Place the fish on a dish, and garnish it with croutons of bread fried in butter. Codfish—continued. (3) Steep the fisli in cold water for a day or two; then drain it, put it into a fish-kettle with enough cold water to cover it, and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes, removing the scum as it rises to the top of the water. When the fish is cooked, drain it, remove all the bones, cut the flesh into small pieces, mash it, and then put into a stewpan. Break into a basin as many eggs as there are pounds of fish, mixing in for each egg I table-spoonful of cream, and beat well together; then pour the mixture gradually over the fish, and stir the whole over a slow fire with a wooden spoon. Allow also 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil for every pound of fish, and mix it in gradually. Let all simmer for nearly fifteen minutes ; then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve with as little delay as possible. Vol-au-Vent of Cod with Cream Sauce.—Remove the skin and bones of some cold cooked Cod (any remains can be used up), and divide the flesh into flakes with a fork. Put 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, work it over the fire until the butter has dissolved, then put in the fish, season to taste with salt and pepper, and warm up again. Make a vol-au-vent of paste, and when baked, stand it on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper spread over a dish, turn the fish into it, 'and serve quickly. Cod’s Liver.—This is usually appropriated by the fishmonger for extracting the oil. It is very nice, how- ever, prepared as a forcemeat. Quenelles of Cod’s Liver.—Take ^lb. of very fresh Cod’s liver and chop it up fine, adding a little breadcrumb, the yolks of three eggs, salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley. Mix these well, and form the mixture into quenelles as follows : Take two table-spoons, fill one, and smooth it over with a knife dipped into hot water ; then take the other spoon, and put that also into boiling water to heat it; turn the quenelles from one spoon into the other, and then put them into a well-buttered saute-pan. When the required number are made, pour in some good stock, place the pan on the fire, and boil for about ten minutes, or until the quenelles are quite firm. They are then ready to serve. Cod’s Roes.—These are generally seized upon by the greedy fishmonger for purposes of his own. Dried and smoked they can be preserved for a length of time, and may he cooked as though quite fresh. Cod’s Roe a la Hollandaise.—(1) Take a good Cod’s roe, wash it well, and put into a pan in which 1 pint of water, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and a little salt and pepper are boiling. When the roe has boiled for fifteen minutes, take it out, and put it on a strainer to drain ; then place it on a dish and pour over some sauce made to imitate Dutch sauce, as follows: Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, mix well, and stir it into 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water (the liquor in which the roe was cooked will do) in a saucepan; place the pan on the fire, and stir until the liquor becomes quite thick; put in a little salt, loz. of butter broken into small pieces, and mix well; then add the juice of half a lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of good vinegar, and when all are thoroughly mixed, add the well-whisked yolk of an egg, and stir over a slow fire for five minutes. Pour the sauce over the roe, and serve. Parsley may be used in place of the egg if preferred. ' (2) Wash a roe, pick it to pieces, taking care to remove every particle of skin, and bail it as for No. 1. When quite done, put it on a strainer to drain, and serve with the same sauce, or with plain butter sauce, with 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy added. Pried Cod’s Roe (Hard).'—Take a hard Cod’s roe and boil it in salted water until it is quite firm. Let it get cold, cut it into slices jin. thick, and put these into a pickle of a little bay-salt and saltpetre, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, ground cloves, nutmeg, and allspice, - mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and let them remain for a day, giving them now and then a turn over. Take them out, put them to drain, dry well, brush over with egg, and dip them into breadcrumbs mixed with a little salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley; then put them into a frying-pan with 'butter, and fry them to a brown colour. Place on a dish, and pour round them some sauce made with 1 tea-419 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sa^lces, Ac., referred to, see under, their special heads. Codfish —continued. cupful of gravy and a few drops of essence of anchovy, thickened with a little flour and 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers. Let the whole be boiled up for two or three minutes, then serve. fried Cod’s Roe (Soft).—Put a large soft roe into -1- pint of boiling water, with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, 1 pinch of salt, and a dust of pepper, and boil for ten minutes; then take it out, and put it on a strainer to drain. Beat up an egg, take half of it, put it in a basin, and dip the roe into it so as to cover it all over. Have ready some raspings and breadcrumbs mixed, dip the roe into this, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry it on one side till brown; then turn, it over and fry the' other side. Place it on a dish, and serve with butter sauce flavoured with anchovy essence, or a little plain butter sauce seasoned with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. Scalloped Cod’s Roe.—Cook about jib. of roe as for Cod’s Roe a t a Holdandaise. .Take 1 teaspoonful each of flour and cornflour and mix them with 1 table-spoonful of water; next take 3 teaspoonfuls of the liquor in which the roe was boiled while it is still at boiling point, stir it into the flour mixture, adding |oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper, and put it over a brisk fire, stirring until it gets quite thick. Mask the roe with this, and put it on a dish well buttered and sprinkled with sifted breadcrumbs. Spread out the roe evenly, and cover with more breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, to about lin. in thickness; melt a little butter, spread it over the top, and then bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. If it is not well browned in this time, use a salamander to finish it. Stewed Cod’s Roe. — Put the roe in a saucepan and cover it with equal quantities of vinegar and water, place it over the fire until boiling', then drain it. Put the roe in another saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and cover with equal quantities of white wine and stock. Boil the roe for fifteen minutes, then put it on a hot dish. Put Joz. of butter that has been kneaded with \ table-spoonful of flour in the cooking-liquor of the roe, and the juice of half a small lemon, and stir it over the fire. When thickened and boiling, pour the sauce over, and serve. Cod’s Sounds.—These are gelatinous fringes that run along each side of the backbone on the inside of the belly. They are highly esteemed by invalids and others as a nutritious luxury. There are various ways of pre- paring them for the table. Boiled Cod’s Sounds.—(1) Take six sounds and soak them in cold milk-and-water for several hours ; then boil them in some more milk-and-water until they are quite tender. Take them out, drain, and put them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish-paper spread over it, and serve egg sauce with them. (2) Boil the sounds as in No. 1, and cut them into pieces, but not too small. Make some egg sauce, put the pieces of sound into a pan with it, and place the pan on a gentle fire, continually shaking it until the fish is quite done. Arrange the sounds on a dish in the form of a pyramid, pouring the sauce over, and surround the dish with a garnish of boiled parsnips cut into neat shapes. (3) Scald some sounds, pare off their black skins, and rub them well with salt; then put them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil gently at the side of the fire until nearly cooked. Drain the sounds, dredge them over with flour, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed; then pour in a little more than J- pint of good gravy, season with salt and pepper, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, lay the sounds on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Cod’s Sounds-and-Tongues Pie.—Steep an equal quantity of sounds and tongues in cold water for twelve hours ; then put them into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and fib. of sliced onions, put the pan on the fire, and fry them until they are of a i brown colour ; take them out, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 pint of good stock, and mix well until quite smooth. Put back ! Codfish —continued. the sounds and tongues, add 1 pinch of pepper, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or white wine. 1 teas] oonful of essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon, and place the pan over the fire for five minutes, stirring frequently so as not to let them burn. Take out the tongues and sounds, arrange them in a pie-dish, mixing in with them a few uncooked o? sters and hard- boiled eggs cut into quarters, pour over the sauce, cover the dis-h with a light paste, and put it in the oven to bake. As soon as the crust has risen and is done, the pie is ready for serving. Roasted Cod’s Sounds.—Wash and clean some sounds, put them in a saucepan with sufficient milk-and-water to cover them, and boil gently until three-parts cooked; then move them off the fire, and leave until cold. Finely chop about two dozen oysters, and mix them with 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs and 2oz. of butter; season the mixture with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it with beaten yolks of eg-gs. Spread the forcemeat over the sounds, roll them round, fasten them securely with small skewers, baste willi a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, roll in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and lay in a Dutch oven to roast in front of a clear fire, turning constantly and hasting with butter, which should be kept for that purpose in a small basin near the fire. More grated breadcrumbs should be strewn over if the others fall off at all. When nicely browned, arrange the sounds on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. Cod’s Tongues. -—• Although these tiny organs are not often noticed in the mouth of the fish, they are, never- theless, exceedingly tasty, and can he formed by an ingenious cook into a variety of pleasing dishes, amongst which the following will hold a leading position: Blanched Cod’s Tongues.- Well wash eighteen fresh Cod’s tongues in cold water ; then drain them, place in a saucepan on the hot stove, cover with fresh water, season with a handful of salt, six cloves, twelve whole peppers, one sliced onion, a bouquet garni, and half a sliced lemon, and let them come to the boil. Transfer them with the water and garnisliings to a stone jar, and they are ready for use. Boiled Cod’s Tongues.—(1) Place the tongues in warm water, and leave them for a-day-and-a-half, changing the water once. Put a pan of water on the fire, and when it boils throw in the tongues and boil them for ten minutes. Place pieces of toast on a dish, brush the tongues over with egg sauce, put them on the toast, and serve. (2) Proceed as in No. 1 as far as the boiling'. Let them get quite cool, and then put them into a frying-pan, previously either dipping in batter or brushing with egg and then bread- crumbing them, and fry to a light colour. They can be either served by themselves, or they make a very good garnish for large pieces of cooked Cod. Boiled Cod’s Tongues -withi Egg Sauce.—Wash in cold water 21b. of salted Cod’s tongues, pour lukewarm water over them, and let them remain where the water will retain its heat for two hours or longer. When the tongues have soaked, put them in a saucepan over the fire in enough cold water to cover them, add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and a small red pepper-pod or a seasoning of cayenne, and cook slowly for about lialf-an-hour, or until they are tender. In the meantime, boil three eggs hard, remove the shells, and chop the eggs. Just before the tongues are done, put in a saucepan over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them together until they begin to bubble; then gradually stir in enough of the milk-and-water in which the tongues were boiled to make the sauce sufficiently salt, and more milk to bring it to the consistency of thick cream. Put the tongues into the sauce, add the chopped eggs, and serve hot. Cod’s Sounds-and-Tongues Pie.—Sec Cod’s Sounds. Cod’s Tongues a la Poulette. — Put eighteen blanched tongues into a saucepan on the stove, add 1 pint of Dutch sauce, i gill of the stock in which they were blanched, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and heat well for five minutes without boiling. Pour the whole into a deep, hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve. 2 N 2420 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Codfish —continued. Cod’s Tongues with Black-butter Sauce.—Blanch eighteen Cod’s tongues, put them in a saucepan with £ gill of the liquor they were blanched in, and heat, but do not let them boil. Drain well, dress on a hot dish, pour over 1 pint of black-butter sauce, decorate each side of the dish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Pried Cod’s Tongues.—Well wash eighteen fresh tongues, drain on a napkin, dip in cold milk, and then roll them one by one in flour. Put 1 teacupful of clarified butter into a frying-pan, heat it, gently lay in the tongues, keeping them separate, and cook for three minutes ; then turn them on the other side, using a fork, and cook for three minutes longer. Take them up carefully with a skimmer, put on a cloth to drain, season with 1 pinch of salt and £ pinch of pepper. Dress them on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Serve with 1 gill of hot tomato-sauce in a sauceboat. COFFEE (Fr. Cafe; Ger. Kaffee; Ital. Caffe; Sp. Cafe).—The plant by which Coffee berries, or, more cor- rectly, seeds, are produced is of the same natural order as the trees from which quinine and cinchona bark are obtained. Hence it is not surprising to find that Coffee possesses medicinal properties of a very high order, due chiefly to its aromatic essential oil and the active prin- ciple called caffeine, a crystal alkaloid that closely resembles them (of tea), quinine, cinchonine, and others. Payen gives the following as the composition of the Coffee-berry:— Water 12'000 Woody tissue ... ... ... ... ... 34'000 Fixed fatty matters ... ... ... 10 to 13’000 Gum, sugar, and vegetable acids ... ... 15 500 Nitrogenous matter allied to legumin (vege- table casein) ... ... ... ... ... 13'000 Free caffein ... ... ... ... ... 0'800 Compound of caffein with potash ... 35 to 5'000 Solid fatty essence ... ... ... ... 0'002 Aromatic essential oil ... ... ... ... O'OOl Saline matters ... ... ... ... ... 6'697 100 000 Talleyrand wrote: “A cup of Coffee lightly tempered • with good milk detracts nothing from your intellect; on the contrary, your stomach is freed by it, and no longer distresses your brain; it will not hamper your mind with troubles, but give freedom to its working. Suave molecules of Mocha stir up your blood, without causing excessive heat; the organ of thought receives from it a feeling of sympathy; work becomes easier, and you will sit down without distress to your principal repast, which will restore your body, and afford you a calm delicious night.” Fig. 497. Coffee Berries and Beans. The Coffee-plant (Caffea arabica) is a native of Arabia, and the better kinds are generally known as “Mocha”; but it is extensively grown in the French possessions in the West Indies, the seed having been imported thither in the reign of Louis XIY. (1741) after it had been cultivated at Amsterdam, and from this seed, which was of genuine Mocha descent, the West Indian gardens were stocked. The tree frequently attains a height of from 12ft. to 15ft., its leaves are laurel-shaped, and the berries resemble cherries, each containing two “ beans ” (see Fig. 497). When dried in the sun the husks are separated from the seeds; but in their natural (green) Coffee —continued. state they have a very peculiar taste. The produce of a good tree would be from 141b. to 21b. of berries. Rhind observes that the appearance of a Coffee plantation during flowering is very peculiar, the flowers maturing so rapidly that the trees which were previously appa- rently bare of flowers become almost in a night a mass of snowy white. The peculiar feature of the Coffee-bean is that it is not ready for use until roasted, that process bringing out flavours that would he otherwise unknown. There are various methods of roasting Coffee, the follow- ’ ing being strongly recommended. A small Coffee-roaster should be used, and the berries carefully selected. New beans will not roast well, as they contain a large proportion of clammy juice, which Fig. 498. Mocha Coffee Beans. requires careful and thorough drying. Small beans are the best, and those of Mocha (nearly all Arabian Coffee is styled Mocha) are nearly round (see Fig. 498). Boasting Coffee Beans. — Put the beans in the roaster, set this before a moderate fire, and turn slowly until the Coffee takes a good brown colour ; for this it should require about twenty-five minutes. Open the cover to see when it is done. If browned, transfer it to an earthen jar, cover it tightly, and use when needed. Or a more simple plan, and even more effectual, is to take a tin baking-dish, butter well the bottom, put the Coffee in it, and set it in a moderate oven until the beans take a strong golden colour, twenty minutes sufficing for this. Toss them frequently with a wooden spoon as they are cooking. Another plan is to put in a small frying-pan lib. of raw Coffee-beans and set the pan on the fire, stirring and shaking occasionally till the beans are yellow ; then cover the frying- pan and shake the Coffee about till it is a dark brown. Move the pan off the fire, keep the cover on, and when the beans are a little cool, break an egg over them and stir them until they are all well coated with the egg. Then store the Coffee in tins or jars with tight-fitting lids, and grind it as wanted for use. Coffee should always be bought in the bean and ground as required, otherwise it is liable to extensive adultera- tion with chicory (or succory); some persons like the addition, but the epicure who is really fond of Coffee would not admit of its introduction. The following receipts for making Coffee are those practised by the first cooks in the country: Breakfast Coffee.—Allow 1 table-spoonful of Coffee to each person. The Coffee when ground should be measured, put into the Coffee-pot, and boiling water poured over it in the proportion of f pint to each table-spoonful of Coffee, and the pot put on the fire ; the instant it boils, take the pot off, uncover it, and let it stand a minute or two; then cover it again, put it back on the fire, and let it boil up again. Take it from the fire and let it stand for five minutes to settle. It is then ready to pour out. Cafe au Bait.—(1) Put 2qts. of milk in an earthenware pot on the hot range and let it heat until nearly boiling ; then immediately add 2£oz. of finely-ground Coffee. Shuffle the pot in contrary directions whilst the milk comes to a boil, theti let it rest for three minutes. Strain through a clean napkin into a hot Coffee-pot, and serve with six small cups.421 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued. (2) Put 4|oz. of freshly-ground Coffee into a Coffee-filter, gradually pour over it 1 pint of boiling water, and let it stand for three minutes; then gradually pour over 2.j pints more of boiling water, taking special care that under no circumstances should the Coffee be allowed to boil again after the water has been poured over. When all the fluid has dripped down, put it into a hot Coffee-pot. Take 3 pints of thoroughly- heated milk (but do not boil it), pour it into a hot pot, and send to the table with six cups, pouring into each cup half Coffee and half milk. ' Cafe Noir, or Black Coffee.—(1) Grind 6 table-spoonfuls of Coffee-beans in a mill, .but neither too coarse nor too fine. Have a well-cleaned Coffee-pot or Cafetiere (see Fig. 499), put the Coffee on the filter, with the small strainer over, and Fig. 499. Cafetiere or Coffee Percolator, fitted with a Bag for the Coffee (Adams and Son). pour on 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, adding it little by little. When all the water is used up, put on the cover, and let the Coffee infuse, but on no account must it boil again. Serve in six small cups. Coffee should never be pre- pared more than five minutes before the time for serving. (2) Pour 3 pints of cold water into an earthen pot on the hot range, and when it boils immediately add 4joz. of freshly- ground Coffee; then put the pot on the corner of the stove and leave it for three minutes. Have ready a piece of red- hot charcoal about the size of a small banana, and plunge it into the Coffee ; but if there is no charcoal handy a piece of red-hot cinder will answer. Let this stand again for three minutes; then the surface of the Coffee will be foam, which must be thoroughly removed with a skimmer. Carefully and gently pour the Coffee into a hot Coffee-pot, and send to table with small hot cups, accompanied with liqueur-glasses of old cognac. This is sufficient for six persons. (3) Pour lqt. of boiling water on 1 breakfast-cupful of Coffee, stir it well, and let it stand in a warm place for fifteen minutes; or if required very black and bitter, boil it for five minutes. Milk is not served with this. French Coffee.—To ilb. of pure Coffee add loz. of chicory, and mix well together. Put half this into the pot, which must be thoroughly clean and dry, stir it on the stove till it is hot but not burnt, then crush on it one egg, shell included, and pour on immediately 2qts. of cold water. Stir occasionally till scalding hot, but do not let it boil, or it will be spoilt; then draw it from the fire, still leaving on the stove, but where it cannot boil, and let it stand seven or eight minutes. Serve with boiling milk. Steamed Coffee.—Put in a hot Coffee-pot 1 large table- spoonful of ground Coffee and loz. of isinglass, fill up with water, stand the pot in a kettle of boiling water, and steam for twenty minutes. When ready to serve, strain the Coffee into another pot. White Coffee. —Heat 2 breakfast-cupfuls of lightly-baked Coffee-berries, and while hot pour over them lqt. of boiling water. Let this stand for half-an-hour; then add lqt. of boiling milk, and serve with sugar. For the purpose of making a speedy cup of Coffee the following very useful preparations may be men- tioned, all of them though, however pure, lacking Coffee—continued. somewhat of the aroma of Coffee made from the freshly- ground berry : Bssence of Coffee.—(1) This is prepared by percolating boiling water through four parts of Coffee and two parts of chicory, and then, after adding one part of burnt sugar colouring, reducing the liquid by boiling until it assumes the consistency of treacle; 1 teaspoonful of this essence is sufficient for 1 breakfast-cupful of Coffee, hot water or boiling milk being added according to taste. The essence may be preserved in well-corked bottles, and is then ready at any time for immediate use. (2) Bruise 4oz. of well-roasted Coffee in a warmed brass mortar, put it in a bottle with 1 pint of rectified spirits of wine, cork tightly, and keep the bottle in a warm tem- perature for ten days. Filter the essence, and keep it in small well-stoppered bottles. (3) Put loz. of ground Coffee into a small saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, and let it boil until reduced to about 2 table-spoonfuls. Strain through a cloth, press well, and let it cool thoroughly. Liquid Extract of Coffee.—Perhaps this is the most useful of all stock preparations of Coffee, and it is considered superior to the essence for culinary purposes. Take lib. of well- roasted, freshly-ground Coffee and infuse in lqt. of boiling water at a slow heat in a closely-covered vessel for two or three hours. Strain through a tammy-cloth, return the liquor to the saucepan (enamelled ware alone should be used), and boil down to 1 pint. If this process is care- fully conducted, the Coffee will retain its aromatic flavour. To preserve it 1 wineglassful of cognac should be added to every pint. Clark’s Coffee Extract is an excellent pre- paration of a somewhat similar character. Distilled Coffee is another form of liquid extract which retains the aroma well. There are several imitations of, or substitutes for, Coffee that deserve some notice; they are principally concoctions of horse-beans, roasted with honey or sugar; beet-root, sliced and dried in a slow oven until capable of being ground; dandelion-roots, dried, washed, and ground with caramel; and chicory. They do not, however, possess the exhilarating properties of the Coffee-bean. A very good imitation Coffee is made as follows : Roast lib. of barley and grind it in a Coffee-grinder; then mix with it an equal quantity of acorn Coffee, which is prepared as follows: Gather the acorns when ripe (when they fall from the trees in the autumn); peel them, cut into pieces about the size of Coffee-berries, and keep them near the fire until quite dry; then roast till a dark brown in the Fig. 500. General Hutchinson’s Coffee-pot and Urn (Adams and Son). same way as Coffee is roasted. Directly the acorns are roasted, grind them very coarsely, as if fine the Coffee will have a thick appearance. The barley and acorns should be well mixed together. When making the Coffee, use 1 heaped422 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utens ls, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued. table-spoonful to every pint of water; boil slowly for ten or fifteen minutes, then pour it into a Coffee-pot that has a Coffee-bag fixed inside; or percolate through a cafetiere. Serve with plenty of boiling milk and sugar. As already shown by the foregoing receipts, Coffee is best made by percolating boiling water through the freshly-roasted, freshly-ground beans. , Numerous inven- tions of apparatus have been made, all seeming to have special qualities. Amongst these the following are perhaps the more noteworthy: General Hutchinson’s Coffee-pot (Fig. 500, a) and Urn (Fig. 500, b), both acting upon the principle of percolation. The Coffee-pot is in two parts, the upper being fitted with a perforated bottom upon which the Coffee rests. The water is poured in through a coarsely- perforated disperser, and the Coffee is kept in its place by a sort of damper. When the liquor has run through, the top part may be removed, and the lid then fits the bottom part containing the beverage. The urn is fitted in a somewhat similar manner. Fig. 501. Lebrun’s Cafetiere (Adams and Son). Lebrun’s Cafetiere (Fig. 501) is so contrived that when the water boils it passes through the Coffee by steam pressure directly into the cup. The Vienna Coffee-pot (see Fig. 502). fitted with a spirit-lamp, works upon a similar plan, the boiling water rising and passing through the Coffee. A little Cafetiere called the “ Potsdam ” (Fig. 503) is rever- sible, so that when tbe water boils, by means of the spirit burning in the tray below, the operator turns the pot over, and the water then passes through the Coffee into the vessel that is then undermost. As explained before, these utensils have their merits, but are too elaborate for general purposes, although the results are excellent, and the Coffee produced is second to none. Coffee is employed by con- fectioners as a flavouring for many pleasing dainties, the following receipts being se- lected for their eminent practi- cability : Coffee Bavaroise.—(1) Stand a saucepan over the fire with fbz. of gelatine, lOoz. of lump sugar, and 1 pint of water; when the gelatine and sugar are dissolved, strain through a silk sieve, and let the solution get cold. Mix with the cold jelly i pint of liquid Coffee extract. Pack a cylinder-mould in ice, pour in the jelly, and turn it about so as to line the mould all over. Boil 11 pints of milk with a little strong Coffee —continued. Coffee in a large saucepan; beat the yolks of eight eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, and pour in with the milk and Coffee, stirring until the custard begins to thicken. Soak 1 joz. of gelatine in cold water, drain it, and mix with the hot custard. When dissolved, strain it into a basin, and stand the basin on ice. As the custard begins to thicken, mix in 1J pints of whipped cream; turn this into the mould, imbed it in the ice, with a cover on the top. of it and ice on the top of that, and leave for an - hour - and - a - half. Before turning the bavaroise out, dip the mould in tepid water. (2) Soak ^ teaspoonful of gela- tine in teacupful of cold water for two hours ; pour on this |- pint of strong boiling Coff ee, and when the gelatine is melted add 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Strain into a tin bowl, pack this in ice, and whisk the contents until they begin to thicken; then add 1 pint of whipped cream, and when thoroughly mixed, pour into a mould to set. Serve with sugar and cream. Coffee Beer.—A beverage by this name was invented by a certain M. Pluehart. The ingredients and quantities in a thousand parts are—Strong Coffee, 300 ; rum, 300; syrup thickened with gum Senegal, 65 ; alcoholic extract of orange- peel, 10 ; and water, 325. It does not appear to have reached any important degree of popularity. Coffee Blanc-mang'e.—Roast 4oz. of Coffee-berries, grind them, put them in a basin, pour iu ^ pint of boiling water, and leave them till the grounds have settled at the bottom. Dissolve ioz. of gelatine in a small quantity of boiling water, and strain it into a basin. Pour the clear Coffee carefully from the groundj into the basin containing the gelatine, and sweeten it with Vlb. of caster sugar. Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound them to a paste, adding gradually 1) pints of water. Squeeze the almonds through a cloth, and pour half of this liquid on to the Coffee. Dissolve another -Joz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of hot water, sweeten it with 1-lb. of caster sugar, and mix the remainder of the almond liquid with it. Pack a mould in ice, pour iu a layer of the Coffee mixture, and let that freeze ; then pour in a layer of the almond mixture, allowing that to freeze also, and con- tinue in this way till the mould is full ; then leave it for tw Fig. 502. Vienna Coffee- Pot (Adams ancl Son). Fig. 503. Reversible Pots- dam Cafetiere (Adams and Son).428 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, $ee under their special heads. Coffee—continued. hours in the ice. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a cloth, turn the blanc-mange out on to a fancy dish, garnish with macaroons, and serve. See Pig. 504. Coffee-and-Brandy Cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of the finest picked gum arabic in J pint of hot water, strain it, and mix with it J gill of brandy and enough caster sugar to make it into an elastic paste. Beat the whites of two eggs with 2oz. of Coffee extract and enough icing sugar to make a rather but not very stiff paste. Fill a biscuit-forcer (having a Jin. tube at the end of it) with the white paste, and push it out upon a large sheet of paper that has been well sifted over with caster sugar; as the contents of the .forcer are pushed out, cut them off with a knife in pieces the size of small filberts. When each sheet of paper is full, stand it on a baking-sheet and put it in the screen for ten minutes to dry the bonbons. Take them up one at a time, using the point of a fork, dip them in the Coffee icing, put them oa wire trays, and stand them for another ten minutes in the screen. Store them away between layers of white paper, in a box or lin. Coffee Cake.—(1) Make a paste (called Madeleine paste by Dubois) with the following ingredients : 7oz. of dried and sifted flour, Jib. of powdered sugar, 7oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, the yolks of six eggs, the whites of six eggs well whisked, one whole egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of cognac, and a little salt. Put this mixture into a buttered cylinder mould, and bake. When it is done, turn it out of the mould and let it cool. While it is cooling, beat up the whites of four or five eggs’and when firm sift into them Jib. of caster sugar; whip this over the fire until quite thick, then remove it, and continue whipping until it gets perfectly cold ; add to it J wineglassful • of very strong Coffee infusion or extract of Coffee, to give it a dark colour. Bub Jib. of butter up in a cloth to soften it; put it in a basin, and work it with a spoon, gradually pouring in the Coffee mixture as soon as it becomes creamy. When the cake is cold, trim it, and divide it transversely into thin slices ; mask each layer with the Coffee mixture, build the cake to its original form, mask it all over with the Coffee mixture, smooth it over, and decorate it. Put it on a dish on a folded napkin, and fill the hollow with the remainder of the preparation. (2) Mix together 3J breakfast-cupfuls of pastry flour, J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, four eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately), and 1 breakfast-cupful of strong clear Coffee. Divide the dough into three parts, add to one part 1 breakfast-cupful of currants, J breakfast-cupful of stoned and chopped raisins, Jib. of sliced citron (all the fruits must be floured), 2 teaspoonfuls of molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of brandy or wine, and 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon and mixed mace. Knead all thoroughly together, and bake. (3) Mix Jib. of ground almonds and 1 wineglassful of Coffee extract with the whites of two eggs ; when well beaten, lay it out in small quantities on white paper, spread on a baking- sheet, and bake in a slow oven. (4) Beat Jib. of butter to a cream together with lib. of sugar, then beat into it Jib. of slightly-warmed molasses; | add J saltspoonful of powdered cloves, 1 saltspoonful each of powdered mace and cinnamon, beat the mixture hard for at least five minutes, then mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs ; have ready J pint of black Coffee, made with the very best Coffee beans, and stir it in ; then add in small quantities alternately the whites of three eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and 1 Jib. of flour; stir in 1 teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in hot water, Jib. of citron chopped fine, Jib. of washed and dried currants, and Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins; citron, raisins aiid currants being dredged with flour before being mixed into the cake. When thoroughly mixed, bake in two cake-tins. When ^uitc cold, wrap the cakes in a thick cloth, and keep them till required for use in a tightly-closed cake-box, as this cake loses its aroma if exposed to the air. Coffee Caramel Tablets. —Boil Jib. of sugar to the crack degree; then move it from the fire, add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of Liquid Coffee Extract, and boil it Up again to the crack. Move it from the fire, and when it is cool, turn it on to a slightly-oiled marble slab. Mark the surface of the caramel into tablets with the back of a knife, and when cold, snap it asunder at the parts marked. Coffee—continued. Coffee Charlotte Husse.—Line a plain charlotte mould with some lady’s finger biscuits' and stand it in ice. Put Jib. of Coffee in a basin with lqt. of boiled cream, and let it stand one hour. Beat in a stewpan the yolks of eight eggs and Jib. of caster sugar, pour in the Coffee and cream, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Soak loz. of gelatine in cold water, drain it, and add to the cream ; stir, and when the gelatine is melted, strain through a sieve into a basin, stand the basin on ice, and stir the cream until it begins to thicken; add lqt. of well-whipped cream, pour it into the mould, and let it remain in the ice for one hour. Dip the , mould in tepid water, put a folded napkin or ornamental paper on a dish, and turn the charlotte on to it. Coffee Cheese.—Boil J pint of cream and 1 pint of milk to- gether, and add a small lump of sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Boast 4oz. of Coffee-beans, put them while hot in with the cream and milk, cover the stewpan, and infuse till quite cold. When cold, mix J pint of cream with it, put it all in a basin packed in ice, and whip till the cream begins to thicken ; then add Joz. of isinglass dissolved with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in 1 teacupful of water, and beat again until it is very thick. Put in a mould, surround with ice, and let it freeze. Coffee Cream.—(1) Boil 1 pint of milk and cream together, and add a small lump of sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Boast 4oz. of green Coffee-berries in a frying-pan, put the beans while hot in with the cream, place the cover on the stewpan, and let them steep till qLiite cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs in with the cream, strain it twice through a cloth, fill some break- fast-cups with it, and stand these in a large stewpan containing enough water to reach to half their height; put on the lid and a few live coals on the top of that, and let the water simmer. When the cream is set, let it get cold, and then turn it out of the cups. (2) Boast Jib. of Coffee-berries over the fire in a preserving- pan, shaking frequently; when they are well browned throw them into 1 pint of boiling cream ; cover this over with the lid and set it aside for the infusion to draw. Strain it through fine linen into a stewpan, add caster sugar to taste, and_six yolks of eggs ; stir the whole upon the fire until it thickens. Drop in l joz. of fine isinglass, strain it again through a sieve, and add J pint of good whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a large mould and set it upon the ice to get cold and firm ; when it is so, turn it out in the usual way. (3) Set a copper pan on the fire, put into it 8oz. of raw Coffee- berries, stir them about until they are slightly browned, then pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of milk and cream, and add 12oz. of sugar and the yolks of six egg's ; continue to stir until these form a custard ; run this through a fine sieve into a freezer, and freeze. Pour into a mould packed in ice, let it set, turn out on to a cold dish, and serve. Coffee Cream Ice. -(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of ground Coffee in a bottle with J pint of water, and leave it to steep all night; then strain it through a cloth previously rinsed in hot water. Beat 12oz. of caster sugar with 1J pints of cream, and mix this with the Coffee. Put the mixture in a freezer, turn this about with one hand and work the cream from the sides with the other. In this way the cream can be frozen in a very few minutes. (2) Mix 1 teacupful each of sugar and flour together, and beat them with two eggs. Put 1 pint of milk on the fire, and when it comes to the boil stir in_the beaten eggs and flour, and let it simmer for twenty minutes; cool it, and then add lqt. of cream, J pint of strong Coffee, and another teacupful of sugar. Pour the mixture into a freezer, work it occasionally, and let it freeze. (3) Put in a stewpan 1 pint of cream, 14oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, J pint of strong Coffee, and J salt- spoonful of salt; beat them well together, and stir over the fire until thick ; strain, put the mixture into a freezer, and let it freeze for an hour or so. (4) Prepare about 1 pint of Coffee, making it with water, pour into a basin, let it cool, mix in an equal quantity of cold cream, and sweeten to taste; pour the whole into a freezer packed in a very little ice, and let it remain covered over for about ten minutes. With a spatula ease away the sides where they have frozen, cover over for twenty minutes longer, use the spatula again, cover over for another twenty minutes, work the handle of the freezer slightly, and the Coffee will beTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 424 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued ready for use. Pour it into cups or glasses, and serve. The cream should be thick without being compact. (5) Put 8oz. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan and mix well for ten minutes ; add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, pour the whole into a copper basin on the hot stove, and with a spatula or spoon stir gently at the bottom until well keated, but it must not boil. Take it from the fire, and put it on the table; add immediately 1 pint of sweet cream, mixing again for two minutes, and throw in 2oz. of freshly-ground Coffee, stirring for two minutes longer. Return the basin to the stove, beat the contents up again with a whisk, and return to the table once more. Cover with a napkin so that the Coffee can infuse thoroughly for half-an- hour, strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, and freeze it. Serve as other crexm ices. (6) Roast 6oz. of Coffee till the berries are covered with an oily moisture. Put them into a stewpan, mix in 1 pint of warm milk and 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar; then put the lid on the stewpan and stand it off the fire to cool. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with 1 pint of milk, and strain through a sieve into the other ingredients; stir this over the fire until it begins to simmer; then pour into a basin and let it cool. Pack an ice-box or freezer with ice, turn the cream into it, work it with a spoon to remove the frozen cream that adheres to the sides, and when all is solid, serve in glasses or on a folded napkin spread on a dish. (7) Put into a saucepan over the fire jib. of roasted Coffee- berries and shake them until they are thoroughly heated; pour over them 1 pint of cream, cover the saucepan, and let the cream and Coffee remain hot for an hour without boiling; then strain off the cream. After the cream is strained, put into a thick saucepan the yolks of eight eggs, lib. of sugar, and the cream. Dissolve l|oz. of gelatine in 1 gill of hot water, and whisk j pint of cream to a stiff froth ; put the saucepan containing the sugar, eggs, and cream over the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken; then remove from the fire, and stir the dissolved gelatine into it for two minutes; next mix in the whipped cream lightly and quickly. Put the Coffee into a tight-covered mould, and freeze it; or put it into little paper cases, and freeze these for three hours. (8) Pour 1 pint of boiling water over 6oz. of freshly-ground Coffee, and let it stand for a few minutes; then strain it, and mix with 1 j pints of milk and j pint of scalded cream, sweetening to taste. Put half of the mixture in the freezer and the other on ice. When the Coffee which has been put in the freezer has partly frozen, mix it with the other, and serve. (9) With 3 pints of syrup at 35deg. mix 3 pints of scalded cream and j pint of strong Coffee. Strain the Coffee through a fine sieve, put it in a freezer, and let it freeze for an hour. Work the frozen cream from the sides, and serve in glasses. Coffee Cream Syrup.—To each quart of Coffee syrup stir in 1 pint of thick cream. This preparation is fit for immediate use only. Coffee Croquenbouclie.—Boil in a stewpan j pint of water, jib. of butter, and joz. of caster sugar; take them off the fire, sift in jib. of flour, and stir over the fire again for four or five minutes. Drop teaspoonfuls of this paste on different parts of a floured slab, roll them with the hand to a round shape, put them a short distance from each other on buttered baking-sheets, brush over with egg, and bake in a slack oven. When they are done, take them off the baking-sheets, put on a slab covered with paper, and leave to dry in a warm place for an hour. Take them up one by one with the fingers, and dip one side only in some icing sugar; then build them against the inside of an oiled dome-mould, fixing one above the other in circles-. It will require two persons for this operation. When the sugar is cool, turn the croquenbouche out on a pastry grating and mask it with a thin layer of pre- pared Coffee icing sugar. When the glaze is firm, remove the croquenbouche from the grating, dish it on a folded napkin, and serve with any garnish. Coffee Custards.—(1) Beat in a basin lqt. of boiled milk, 1 pint of very strong Coffee, the yolks of five eggs, and ljoz. of caster sugar, and strain through a pointed strainer. Fill six breakfast-cups with the custard, skim off all froth, stand them in a large stewpan, pour in boiling water to about half the height of the cups, stand the stewpan on a very slow, fire, Coffee—continued. put on the cover, placing a few hot coals on the top, and let the water just simmer. When the custards are set, let them get cold, and then turn them out, and serve. (2) Roast 3oz. of raw Coffee, but do not blacken it, put it while hot in J pint of warm milk, and cover over ; let it stand for half-an-hour, then strain through a sieve. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan, pour in the milk, and add jib. of caster sugar; set the pan over a slow fire, stir till thick without boiling, and then turn it into a basin. When nearly cold, mix in loz. of gelatine dis- solved in a little warm water, strain into a basin, and stir over pounded ice until thick. Remove from the ice, add gradually 1 pint of sweetened and w"hipped cream, and pour it into an ornamental cylinder mould packed in ice. When the custai’d has set, dip the bottom of the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, then turn the custard out on a dish, and serve. Coffee Drops.—Put 21b. of coarsely-sifted crushed loaf sugar into a small pan with a lip to it, and make it into a paste by adding a decoction of 2oz. of Coffee. Caster sugar should not be used for this, as it makes the drops heavy, and spoils their appearance ; while the paste should be of such a thick- ness that it will easily drop from a spoon. Set the pan on a ring on the stove, made to fit it, and with a spatula stir until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise, but without letting it boil. Remove the pan from the stove as soon as the sugar is near the boiling-point, and stir well with the spatula until it is so thick that when dropped it will still retain its round form and not spread too much. A little coarsely-powdered sugar may be added if it is too thin. Hold the pan in the left hand, and with a piece of bent wire in the right cut off small drops, and let them fall on a smooth tin or copper plate, keeping them at a little distance from one another and at regular intervals ; let them remain for about two hours, remove them carefully with a thin spatula, pack in boxes, and put away for use. Coffee with. Egg. — Beat 1 teacupful of cold water and 3 dessert-spoonfuls of ground Coffee with one egg. When well beaten, put it in a Coffee-pot, pour in 1 pint of boiling water, and boil for five minutes; then move it from the fire, and pour a little in a cup. Pour it back, and let it stand for five minutes before using. Coffee Glacees.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with jib. of caster sugar; then add the w'hites of the eggs and jib. of flour. Mix to a smooth paste, and press out of a biscuit-bag on to sheets of paper, making rounds about 3in. in diameter and Jin. thick. Dust a little caster sugar over these and bake them ; when they are done, glaze the tops with Coffee icing. These are very delicate, but inexpensive. Coffee Granito.—Mix 1 pint of strong Coffee with j pint of syrup, boiled to 28deg.; pour it into a freezer, stirring the mixture about, and as it freezes to the sides working it to the centre with a spatula. When it is half frozen, so that it looks something like snowy water, pour it into glasses, and serve. Coffee Icing.—Put lib. of the finest clarified sugar into a copper pan, and boil it to the blow degree ; then stand the pan in cold water until the sugar begins to set at the sides, flavour with a teacupful of strong Coffee, and work against the sides of the pan with the back part of the bowl of a spoon to give the sugar a granulated appearance, having acquired which it is ready for use. Coffee Jelly.—(1) Infuse jib. of ground Coffee in lqt. of water, strain it, and add a little brandy. Boil four calf’s feet in 4qts. of water till the stock is reduced to 2qts., strain, and let it settle. When cold remove the grease, and boil it with twelve beaten eggs, the juice of four lemons, 21b. ol loaf sugar, and the prepared Coffee; stir the mixture well, strain it through a fine jelly-bag into a glass mould, and let it set before being turned out. -(2) Soak loz. of gelatine for two hours in j pint of cold water, and pour over lj pints of boiling water. When the gelatine is dissolved, add lib. of caster sugar and 1 pint of strong Coffee. Strain, turn it into moulds, and leave it to set. Serve with sugar and cream. Coffee Iiiqueur.—(1) Put lib. each of blue and green Coffee- berries into a Coffee-roaster and roast them, adding joz.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 425 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Coffee—continued. of lard during the operation; let them cool slightly, grind them, put them into a jar with lgall. of proof spirit, and let the liqueur remain for fourteen days; then mix in 2qts. of syrup, colour to a deep brown with caramel, bottle, and cork. (2) Put into a jar lib. each of ground chicory and roasted horse beans, add 4oz. of freshly-ground Coffee, pour over lgall. of proof spirit, ancl let them stand for a day or so; then add lgall. of syrup, mix well, and bottle off. Coffee Liqueur (Creme de Mocha) Jelly. -Put fib. of caster sugar into a stewpan with 2oz. of gelatine. Boat well the whites of three eggs, and add to them 2 l pints of water and the juice of a lemon. Pour this over the sugar and gelatine, put the pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture boils. Pass it through a jelly-bag, and if clear add i pint of Coffee liqueur; but if not, strain again. Place a mould in the ice, fill it with the jelly, and let it stand for two hours. It will then be ready to be turned out. Coffee Mange.—Put ioz. of gelatine in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and place it over the fire till dissolved, stirring it occasionally. Make i pint of very strong Coffee, strain it from the grounds into the saucepan with the milk, and sweeten with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, then stir it over the fire till the sugar has melted. Pour the mixture into a basin, and leave it till cold; then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, turn into moulds, and leave till set. When ready to serve, turn out of the moulds on to a fancy dish. Coffee flavoured with Oat Liquor.—Take 1 teacupful of very clean oats and boil them for five or six minutes in soft water ; then strain off, and boil again for half-an-hour in more water. Pass the liquor through a silk sieve, and use it when making Coffee, to which it will impart a fine flavour resembling vanilla. Coffee Pudding.—Make j breakfast-cupful of strong Coffee, and clear it well. Beat up four eggs with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and j teaspoonful of salt, then mix in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk and the Coffee. Strain the mixture into a mould, which stand in a deep pan containing hot water that will reach to half its height, and place it in a moderate oven. When quite firm, take the pudding out and leave it until cold ; then turn it into a dish, strew caster sugar thickly over, glaze under a salamander, and serve. Coffee Souffle. -(1) Put in a sugar-boiler j-lb. of green Coffee, roast it without browning it, and soak it in lqt. of boiling milk for one hour. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, 1 tea- cupful each of caster sugar and vanilla sugar, and j salt- spoonful of salt with the prepared milk; pour it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Remove the mixture from the fire, put in the yolks of six eggs, and the whites beaten very firm. Pill some paper cases with the mixture, and bake. When done, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve at once. (2) Put in a stewpan 1 pint each of milk and cream, add a little sugar and salt, and let it boil. Roast jib. of raw Coffee, throw it while hot into the boiling cream, and finish as for No. 1. Coffee-flavoured Sugar.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of very strong Coffee into a saucepan, and mix in sufficient sugar to form a stiffish liquid; stir this with a spoon until it commences to boil, remove the pan from the fire, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls more of pounded loaf sugar. Well work the sugar against the side of the pan until cool, when it will become dull and thick and like a powder. Dry it in the oven or hot closet, sift it through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. Coffee Syrup.—Infuse jib. of freshly-roasted and ground Coffee- beans in lgall. of boiling water. When cool and settled, filter off, and add 121b. of crushed loaf sugar, dissolving by heat without boiling. Coffee Walnuts. M. Reichert gives us the following excellent receipt: Between two halves of candied walnuts put a small piece of soft almond paste flavoured strongly with essence of Coffee. These can, when dry, be stored in tins or bottles, and are considered a great delicacy. See Fig. 505. Coffee with Whipped Cream.—Put into each cup sufficient sugar to sweeten the Coffee, and 1 table-spoonful, or a little more, of boiling milk. Have ready some whipped cream, Coffee—continued. 1 pint whisked to a stiff froth being required for a dozen cups of Coffee. Fill the cups moderately full with hot Coffee, lay on top of each a spoonful or two of the whipped cream, give it a gentle stir, and serve. Creme de Mocha.—See Coffee Liqueur. Gloria.—This is a kind of Cafe-noir. Sweeten 1 breakfast- cupful of Cafe-noir, pour on to it 1 teaspoonful of brandy, and light it; when the brandy is nearly burned away, blow the flame out, and the Coffee will be fit to drink. Hot Coffee and Soda-water. —Have a Coffee-pot quite dry and „ clean, put in jib. of Coffee and joz. of chicory, pour on lqt of boiling water, and let it stand for ten minutes where it will keep quite hot, but do not let it boil; add to this lqt. of soda- water, and sweeten with condensed milk and sugar. Marbled Coffee Shape.— Cut lqt. or so of blanc-mange into small pieces, and take about half of it and mix in a pan over the fire with 1 table-spoonful of Coffee extract. Rub the inside of a mould with a little oil, lean it sideways, put some of the white blanc-mange in it in patches, and then some of the brown, and so on alternately till the mould is quite full. Pack the mould in ice. When the contents are frozen, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the cream out. By no means an easy dish to make, as, after setting in the mould, the whole must be warmed to melting, and without shaking the mould, packed again in ice. , . itL. Fig. 505. Coffee Walnut. Mousse au Cafe. -Put 4oz. of Coffee into a small saucepan, pour over a little more than 1 teacupful of water, add loz. of sugar, and boil. Stir in slowly the yolks of two eggs, let the mixture get cold, strain it, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of well-whipped cream. Pour the mixture into glasses, and serve. Parfait au Cafe (Parisian).—Put 6oz. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the yolks of six eggs and 1 pint of sweet cream, and mix well together for two minutes. Set the saucepan on the hot stove, stir gently and continually from the bottom, using a spatula, until about to boil. As this is difficult to determine on account of the briskness of the fire, the best way to tell when it is sufficiently done is to lift up the spatula and see whether the cream adheres thickly to it; if so, remove the saucepan from the fire, place it on the table, add 4oz. of freshly-roasted Coffee-beans, and stir again for one minute longer. Remove the spatula, cover the saucepan with a napkin, put on the lid, and infuse for one hour. Beat up 1 pint of sweet cream, and let it rest until needed. Place a freezer in a tub, fill it up all round with broken ice mixed with rock-salt, wipe the cover, and remove it. Strain the infused preparation through a fine sieve into the freezer, put on the cover, take hold of the handle, and turn the freezer briskly in opposite directions for five minutes ; then remove the cover, and with the spatula detach all the cream that adheres to the sides and bottom, re-cover and turn sharply as before; remove the cover, detach the cream from the sides and bottom, replace i he "cover, and begin turning again in opposite directions for five minutes longer. The cream should then be thoroughly frozen. Drop the whipped cream into the freezer, very little at a time, m<an- while mixing it gently with the spatula. Have ready a three- pint channeled mould, with a spoon fill it with the preparation, and put on the lid. Place some broken ice with rock-salt at the bottom of the pail, lay the mould over, fill’ up the pail with more ice and salt, and freeze for fully an hour. Remove the mould, dip it in lukewarm water, wipe away the ice and salt, lift up immediately, take off the cover, turn the cream on to a cold dish with a folded napkin, and serve.426 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. COGNAC.—The name is usually applied in France to brandy of various qualities, the term originating from a locality famous for its brandy. COKER-NUT.—See Cocoa-nut. COLANDERS.—These very necessary culinary utensils derive their name from the Latin verb colare, signifying to “ flow through.” Amongst French cooks they are known as Passoires, or more generally Tamis. Those mostly used in our kitchens are made either of tin (see Fig. 506) or earthenware ; but in larger kitchens they are frequently found of more durable material (see Fig. 507) and of various sizes, from that capable of holding one gallon to four gallons or more. The uses of the Colander are manifold, as will be seen in tbe receipts given throughout this Encyclopaedia; for straining the water from boiled vegetables, and as a first strainer when liquor has to be drawn from solids for the purpose of being further refined. The tin and earthenware varieties are also of great service for sifting chopped suet, or breadcrumbs, where a certain amount of fineness of grain is required, somewhat coarser than powder. Col- anders are also useful for washing peas, beans, rice, and currants, and other articles where a stream of water running through is desirable. In short, the cook would be quite at a loss without one or more. They should be kept scrupu- lously clean. COLARES.—A Portuguese wine of inferior quality; rarely met with in this country. COLBERT SAUCE—So called after a famous French minister, Jean Baptiste Colbert, who lived in the reign of Louis XIV., See Sauces. COLBERT SOUP.—See Soups. COLCANNON. — Sometimes this is spelt “Kol- cannon ”—the “ Kol ” being evidently a derivative of “ Kohl,” a cabbage It is known to us as a favourite Irish dish, and can be prepared as follows: (1) Butter the interior of a plain mould, and strew thickly over the inside some breadcrumbs that have been browned in Colcannon—continued. butter. Mix together lib. each of cold boiled turnips and potatoes, stir in loz. of warmed butter, and season with salt and pepper. Put the mixture into the mould, press it down tightly, and bake in a moderate oven. In about half-an- hour’s time turn the shape carefully out on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Boil separately some cabbages and potatoes in equal quantities ; when cooked, drain them, mix them together in a saucepan, put in a lump of dripping, season with pepper and salt, and mash them over the fire. Turn the mixture out on to a hot dish, and serve. Boiled onions can also be mixed in if liked. COLE WORT.-—This is a species of cabbage charac- terised by not producing a firm bead. In cookery this term i 5 generally used to signify young cabbages that, although little more than seedlings, are amenable to successful culinary treatment. COLLARED MEAT.—The strict meaning of collar- ing, as applied to meat, is to roll up tightly and bind with a string. It is used in modern cookery with much wider significance, as will be seen in the various receipts given under specific headings. Collared head of any kind is a favourite dish. COLLATION .—-This term seems to have little or no reason for its existence in connection with catering, a “ cold collation ” signifying merely a collection of cold foods. COLLEGE PUDDING.—-See Puddings. COLLOPS.—The origin of this word is doubtful, but the meaning of it in kitchen parlance is understood to be small slices of meat. The term is used frequently throughout this Encyclopaedia with a general significa- tion, but in the following receipts it has a special application. Bub the bottom of a stewpan with butter, lay in some very thin slices of meat, with some pepper, salt, an onion, and an apple (both chopped fine), close the lid, and let the meat stew gently till it is very tender. Serve as hot as possible. Russian Collops.—Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it well over the fire, and pour in four beaten eggs aid 1 teacupful of cream. Season the mixture with salt, stir it with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling, when it should be taken off immediately or the eggs will curdle. Melt fib. of butter in a frying- pan, pour in some of the mixture, and fry it until lightly browned on both sides. When all has been fried in this way, cut each cake into halves, trim these into equal-sized oblong-shaped pieces, cover each piece with quenelle force- meat, and roll them round, moistening the edges to make them stick. Dip in beaten egg, coat thickly with breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling butter until browned. Drain the Collops, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. COLOURINGS. — The success of tbe confectioner depends in a great measure upon the free use of bright colours and their artistic arrangement. The cook also, in a minor degree, avails himself occasionally of their services, but more especially as a “ browning ” for gravies, or such like, and then he is wont to combine a rich brown colour with savoury flavours. In the preparation of sweet entremets and other combinations in which sugar holds a prominent place, it is imperative that the colours used should be harmless to the individuals by whom they are swallowed. But, unhappily, it does not always follow that colours prepared for the confectioner’s use are harmless; indeed, so little regard appears to have been paid by colour manufacturers to the quality of the ingredients used, that the public have become exceed- ingly suspicious of bright colours, especially green and blue, and not without good cause, as shown by the reports of experienced analysts.427 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cC-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Colourings—continued. The three most important colours to produce are the three primaries—red, blue, and yellow; because a com- bination of red and blue gives purple; blue and yellow, green; and yellow and red, orange (see Fig. 508); and YELLOW Fig. 50S. Plan or Combining Colours. combinations of these secondaries—purple, green, and orange—can be brought about in such a manner as to give all the most beautiful and delicate tints and shades of the rainbow. A further combination of primaries and secondaries gives tertiary colours—thus : yellow and green give a yellow-green, blue and green a blue-green, and so on, varying in intensity according to the colour preponderating. Aniline Colours.—Many believe that those powerful colouring agents are poisonous ; but although this may bo so of large quantities, in small proportions, such as would be required to colour sugar, no injurious effect need be anticipated. To extract the colour from these dyes, it is only necessary to boil them in alcohol. One or two drops will colour a whole boiling of sugar. Blue. — Use powdered Prussian blue (soluble) or ultramarine blue of the best qualities only. Inferior or “ ordinary ” Prussian blue is insoluble unless a small quantity of oxalic acid (a deadly poison) is added; but the “pure soluble” Prussian blue, being made from iron, is harmless in small quantities. It may be dissolved in water to produce any desii’ed depth of colour ; but 1 drachm in 1 wineglassful of water will be found strong enough for all culinary purposes. Green.—(1) Wash and pound a quantity of spinach. Take it out in small lots, put it in a cloth, and twist the en Is of the cloth in contrary directions ; when all the water is out, put the spinach into a sugar-pan, and place the pan on the fire ; when the liquid begins to curdle, pour it through a very fine sieve, so as to pre- serve the colouring matter and not the water. The colouring, which will be on the sieve like a puree, is removed with a spoon, put into a glass, and placed in the cool until wanted. (2) A perfectly harmless green colouring substance for can- dies and other confectioneries can be produced from unroasted coffee-beans. They must be reduced to powder, and the oil extracted by macerating for a short time in ether; then let them be dried and mixed with sufficient white of egg to make a kind of gruel. Let this remain exposed to the air for a few days, and then bottle for use. It will yield a splendid emerald- green colour. Red.—(1) Carmine gives a beautiful colour, but is frequently adulterated with starch and cheaper aniline dyes ; it should be obtained from cochineal, and be very bright and lasting in use. Take 2oz. of solid carmine in cakes (the best only should be used), damp with a little water, pound in a glass mortar, and dilute with 3J pints of syrup; boil up again, and then leave to get cold. Just before bottling this, add 1 teaspoonful of sal-ammoniac for each 1J pints of syrup. Colourings—continued. (2) Take 150 grains of cochineal, damp it with 1 wine- glassful of water, and pound in a glass mortar. Put this into a saucepan with 100 grains of cream of tartar, 100 grains of alum, and 200 grains of sugar, and put the pan over a good fire to reduce the liquid to one-half its original bulk ; add about J pint of spirits of wine, boil up again, and strain. It is then ready for use, and can be put into bottles until required. (3) Take ljoz. of cochineal, bruise it, put it into an untinned copper pan with lqt. of fresh spring water and 2oz. of cream of tartar, set it on the fire, and boil. Add fib. of caster sugar and *loz. of salts of wormwood; boil these for a few seconds, then add loz. of alum, and boil for another three minutes. Pass it through a jelly-bag or tammy-cloth to filter it, and lot it get cold ; then put in J pint of spirits of wine, and bottle. Yellow.—(1) Put loz. of hay-saffron into a sugar-pan with 11 gills of water, a little alum, and Joz. of sugar. Place the pan on the fire, boil for ten minutes, and then pass the liquid through a cloth. (2) Put Joz. of Turkish saffron, 1 breakfast-cupful of water, Goz. of caster sugar, and Joz. of alum into an untinned copper pan, and boil for ten minutes ; then strain through a jelly - bag or cloth, and when quite cold add J teacupful of spirits of wine. Put into bottles until wanted for use. (3) Mix a little turmeric in cold water and use as a paste, mixing with sugar whilst boiling. Colouring Mixtures for Liqueurs, Wines, and Essences.—These differ in preparation from those used by the confectioner. Green.—Well wash and clean a handful of vine-leaves or spinach, put them into a decanter or bottle, fill up with spirits of wine, and place the decanter in the sun for ten or twelve days. When the liquid is of sufficiently strong colour, strain or filter it into bottles, and it is then ready for use. Pink. -This is obtained by dissolving Joz. of cochineal in spirits of wine, using- sufficient spirits only to dissolve it. The liquid can then be poured into bottles for use. Red.—Put 2 oz. of red sandal-wood into a bottle with 1 pint of spirits of wine, and let them infuse for a couple of weeks or so; then filter into small bottles, and it is ready for use. Should the colour not be deep enough, a very small quantity of bicarbonate of soda can be added. Yellow.—Put J drachm of saffron into a 4oz. phial, pour in 2oz. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof, and let it remain until the spirit is thoroughly tinted to the desired shade of colour. Filter it into small bottles, and put these by for use. The following colouring matters are not unknown amongst confectioners, and they must be sedulously avoided: Red—vermilion, red lead, sulphate of mercury, oxide of lead, and minium; yellow—chrome yellow, sul- phate of arsenic, chromate of lead, iodide of lead, or any preparation of lead; blue—calcium, blue verdita, carbonate of copper; green—emerald green, arsenite of copper, green verdita, carbonate of copper, Sclieele’s green, and others. COLTSFOOT.—The supposed medicinal virtue of this plant (Tussilago Farfara) has gained for it a place in the preparation of confectionery that is believed not to be deserved. By some authorities Coltsfoot is said to yield a demulcent juice, possessing tonic qualities that are very efficacious in relieving coughs; but others place so little faith in these curative properties that in preparing an essence of Coltsfoot they prefer to omit the plant. The following receipts should be found useful: Coltsfoot Liqueur.—Put into a jar loz. each of the essences of hawthorn, whiteheart cherry, cowslip, and Coltsfoot with lgall. of pure spirit, three gold leaves, and 3qts. of syrup. When thoroughly incorporated, pour off into bottles, cork, and use as desired. Coltsfoot Lozenges.—Soak loz. of gum dragon in 2oz. of orange-flower water for about six hours. At the end of that time squeeze and wring the gum in a cloth, work it on a marble slab with the palm of the hand till white and elastic, and work in gradually ljlb. of caster sugar and Joz. of essence of Coltsfoot. Sift some caster sugar over the slab, and roll the428 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Coltsfoot—continued. paste out to the thickness of (in.; if a ribbed rolling-pin can be procured, roll the surface of the paste over with it in cross directions, to imprint a diamond pattern. Stamp out the lozenges with a tin cutter Jin. in diameter, place them out of hand on baking-sheets that have been dusted over with caster sugar, and dry them in the screen. When quite hard, pack the lozenges in well-stoppered glass jars, and keep them in a dry store cupboard. Coltsfoot Rock.—Boil 21b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of water until the syrup reaches the candy height (see Sugar-boiling). Then as it cools stir in 1 teaspoonful of Coltsfoot essence, and pour the sugar on to an oiled slab. Let it get cold, and then cut it into convenient pieces. Sometimes 1 teaspoonful of paregoric is also added, to increase the cough-relieving properties. Coltsfoot Wine.—Gather sufficient of the Coltsfoot flower to fill a gallon measure, and dry it for three or four days in the sun; then put it in a vessel, and pour over 2galls. of boiling water, mixing in 81b. of sugar, and stirring till dissolved. When cold, pour this into large stone bottles, and let them stand in a warm place with the cork loose for two or three weeks, when fermentation will have subsided; then drive the corks in quite tight, and leave the wine for about six months. At the end of that time it may be drawn off into small bottles, but care must be taken not to disturb the sediment. Essence of Coltsfoot.—(1) Gather the leaves and flowers with the midday sun on them, and leave for two or three days to dry. Fill a large wide-mouthed bottle or jar with them, and pour over sufficient proof spirit to cover. Let them stand for a week, and then strain off the spirit and press the leaves. (2) Imitation.—This essence is made of balsam of tolu, loz., and compound tincture of benzoin, 3oz., dissolved in 3oz. of rectified spirits. Leave this to stand for a few days, and then decant the clear portion. The Coltsfoot plant is not used in this. COMFITS.—This word, formerly spelt Confit or Con- fite, is derived from the Old French confit (meaning confected or prepared), which in its turn may be traced to the Latin conficere, to put together. Full directions for the manufacture of Comfits will be found under the various names which distinguish them. COMFREY.—This herb (Symphytum officinale) is very seldom used in cookery. It is occasionally mentioned, however, in the preparation of wine cups and some soups, but may be justly regarded as unnecessary. COMMANDERIA.—A famous wine of Cyprus, so called from a commandery once possessed by the Knights Templars at Colossi, near Limasol. It is described as a sweet Malmsey variety, very strong in alcohol. When newly made it is as dark as brown sherry, growing paler as it matures, and then darkening again with age until it becomes almost black. This wine rarely reaches our coast, the greater quantity being supplied to Austria, France, and Italy. COMPOTES.—A very extensive use of this ex- pressive term is made by Continental cooks; whereas among our native cooks Compotes signify little more than dishes of stewed fruits and syrup. Savoury Com- potes are not much practised by them, although many of our small birds, some kinds of fish, and tasty meats can be turned to good account in this way. Compotes of fruit and other things are fully described under their various headings, but there are a few special Compotes that will be better given here. Compote de Seville.—Put in a basin the yolks of twelve eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla sugar, and beat them well. Put some syrup of about 20deg. in a saute-pan, and let it simmer ; drop in 1 dessert-spoonful at a time of the cream mixture, thus making small round pats ; turn them, and when done on both sides, drain them. Stick two of these pats together with orange marmalade, stamp them out with a circular tin cutter, and place each one as it is done on a clean baking-sheet. Dust some cinnamon sugar over the top, lightly colour them with a red-hot Compotes—continued. salamander, arrange them spirally on a Compote-dish, and pour round a little orange syrup, flavoured with rum to taste. Cremona Compote.—Boil 1 pint of syrup to 28deg., mix in 1 teacupful of vinegar, boil up again, and let it cool. Drain off the syrup from 41b. of mixed newly-preserved fruits, and put them in a jug. Mix 1 teaspoonful of powdered mustard with not quite i pint of water, stir it in gradually with the syrup, pour the whole over the fruit, and let it remain for twenty-four hours. Pour out when required, and serve in a Compote-dish, Golden Compote.—Turn a small fancy mould of either currant, quince, raspberry, or other jelly into the middle of a dish, and make a circle round it of preserved peaches and apricots, cut in halves and trimmed, and boiled in syrup coloured with saffron. Cut some imitation leaves out of candied angelica, arrange them on the top of the circle of fruit, surround the base with a wreath of preserved cherries (see Fig. 509), and serve. The jelly can be decorated if desired, and the summit crowned with crystallised fruit. Grecian Compote.— Cut some stale cake of any kind into pieces about the size and shape of small fowl’s eggs, put them in a saute-pan with a little thick syrup, warm up sharply so that the syrup shall come to the caramel degree, and glaze one side of the cakes only. Take them out before the sugar burns, and drain them on a wire sieve, with the glazed side upper- most. In the centre of a Compote-dish pile some Spanish Compote (Branco), and build the caramelled pieces of cake round the branco, sticking them together with apricot mar- malade. Strew cinnamon sugar over the tops of the cakes, pour strongly-flavoured orange syrup round the Compote, and serve. Russian Compote.—Peel and core two large pears and apples, and cut them up into thin slices. Cut up a quarter of a pine- apple, without the peel, also into slices, and divide two or three oranges, without the rinds, into sections, and remove the pips. Arrange these fruits in layers in a Compote-dish, varying them as much as possible, and sprinkling each layer over with sugar flavoured with vanilla. Cover over the dish, pack it in the ice, and let it remain for an hour or so. Drain off the syrup, adding 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of kirschen- wasser or brandy, pour it over the Compote, and serve. Savoyard Compote.— Blanch some small pears, green almonds, oranges or lemons, and gooseberries; also blanch some carrots, French beans, cucumbers, and gherkins. Boil the fruit and vegetables in water, cut them in little slices, colour the almonds and the vegetables green, separate the fruits and vegetables, and put them into several little basins, pouring over them syrups at 15deg. Ten hours later drain the syrup off each, mix it, add a little sugar, and boil it, making it 3deg. stronger. As soon as it is a little cooled, pour it on the fruit and vegetables, repeating this operation ten or twelve hours afterwards. Drain, the fruit and vegetables, mix them all up in a large bowl, moisten to height with vinegar syrup, and serve with either roasted meat or game. Spanish Compote.—Remove the fat and skin of the white part of the breast of a fowl, pound it in a mortar, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and rub the paste through a fine sieve on to a plate. Put the fowl puree in a sugar-boiler, and add 8oz. of ground rice, 6oz. of caster sugar, i saltspoonful of salt, and 1 gill of cream ; stir this over the fire until it becomes a firm paste, then take it off, and let it get cold. Divide the429 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Compotes—continued. paste into portions about the size of a filbert, shape them like sparrows’eggs, roll them in some browned savoy biscuit powder, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for five minutes. Arrange the cakes in a Compote-dish in a pyra- mid form, pour some syrup flavoured either with lemon or cinnamon round them, and serve. CONDE, A LA.—The French name for a puree of red haricot beans and a dish made of apricots and rice. The term evidently originated from Conde Castle, at Chantilly; but, as Kettner observes, there appears to be no valid reason for cherishing the title. CONDIMENTS.—Commonly known as “seasonings,” the term embracing, therefore, all those materials that are added to foods to give flavour or improve their digestive qualities. Those most familiar to us are salt, vinegar, lemon peel and juice, spices, aromatic herbs, oil, butter, sugar, honey, and preparations of them in sauces. CONFECTIONERY (Fr. Confiserie; Ger. Zucker- werk ; Ital. Confezione; Sp. Confitura).—This exceedingly vague term originated with the family chemist, who com- bined with his own trade that also of the grocer or spiceman. Family medicines in which the two trades were agreeably blended followed a very natural desire to please customers, which was effected by dressing up nauseous drugs in sugar, and dubbing them generally “ confections,” by which title they are familiar to this day. The variety of primitive confections could be numbered by twos and threes; but modern chemists have extended the list indefinitely, and make up almost any drug, however unpleasant to the taste, into sugary and jam-like doses. The grocer also, after separating his sugar and spice trade from drugs, has carried with him the old name which was so familiar to all, and as a consequence the manufacture of sweetmeats and allied preparations have affiliated themselves, as it were, to the general term “ Confectionery.” In America groceries are still known as “ confectioneries,” but in all other civilised countries the sugar-worker only is a confectioner, or its equivalent in any particular language. “ To con- fect ” seems applicable to both chemists and grocers, but confectioners do not recognise any such word, and are therefore left out in the cold, having no specific verb to indicate the act of their working at the trade. By the growth and development of ages. Confectionery, nondescript as the title is, has assumed the proportions of a giant art, and now embraces under its undefined head all sorts and conditions of sugar-working, including sweetmeats of every kind, ices, compotes, jellies, jams, marmalades, and other preserves, and many that should rather be deputed to the realms of the pastry-cook. The distinction, again, between the pastry-cook and the con- fectioner is not easily defined, the two arts being usually acquired by one individual. Confectionery is derived from the chemists’ Latin conficere, to make up or “ dispense but now that we have accepted the use of the term in such a widely-extended sense, the chemists’ confections belong to -an inferior race, and are therefore described separately, sometimes as conserves or elec- tuaries. Varieties will be found under such headings as Bonbons, Candy, Comfits, Drops, Lozenges, Rocks, and Sweetmeats, and their manufacture described under Crystallising, Sugar-boiling, &c. The manufacture of cordials, liqueurs, and sweet wines were at one time classed under Confectionery, but these have assumed sufficient importance to separate themselves from general sugar-working and to become a separate industry. With this branch, flavoured-syrup makers are also associated, so that by degrees, as new branches spring from the old stock, the term will be brought down to indicate the sweetmeat-making industry only. CONFECTIONS.—The manufacture of these sugary preparations appertains to the chemist rather than to the cook or confectioner—that is, as we now understand the application of the term (see Confectionery). But as it has been generally acknowledged that there is some doubt where a line can be drawn between the chemist and the cook, it should not therefore be considered beyond the prescribed limitation of a work of this kind to include amongst its multifarious receipts a few that might more correctly be described as domestic medicines. Amongst the more useful of these are : Aromatic Confection.—Mix carefully in a mortar 2oz. each of powdered nutmegs, cinnamon, and hay-saffron, loz. of pow- dered cloves, and ioz. of powdered cardamom-seeds. When these are carefully blended, stir in lib. of prepared chalk and 21b. of caster sugar. Mix thoroughly, and store away in stoppered wide-mouthed bottles. Moisten from J to 1 tea- spoonful with a little water, to be administered three or four times a day in cases of summer diarrhcea. Confection of Pepper, or Conserve of Black Pepper.— (1) Rub up 2oz. of powdered black pepper and 3oz. of powdered caraway-seeds with lib. of clarified honey ; 2oz. of liquorice powder may be added, or the same quantity of powdered fennel-seed. (2) Take £oz. each of powdered black pepper and powdered liquorice-root, loz. of caster sugar, and £ fluid ounce of oil of fennel, and work these up in a glass mortar with 2oz. of honey. A teaspooi.ful of either of the above for a dose. Confection of Roses. —Beat in a mortar lib. of fresh red- rose petals to a pulp, rub them through a coarse wire sieve, and then work in about 31b. of caster sugar. Preserve this in a jar as a vehicle for other drugs, such as powders. Confection of Senna (Lenitive Electuary).—Powder to- gether in a large stone mortar 8oz. of thoroughly dried senna leaves and 4oz. of dried coriander-seeds. Pass the powder through a fine wire sieve until there is about lOoz. sifted. Boil lib. of chopped figs and 3oz. of bruised liquorice juice in 3 pints of water. Reduce to l j pints, then strain off the liquor, and press or squeeze the residue. Put this liquor into a double boiler, bain-marie, or water-bath, and let it evaporate until 24 fluid ounces only are left. Boil for half-an-hour in a separate vessel Rb. each of preserved tamarinds, cassia pulp, and prunes, in just sufficient water to cover them. Strain off the liquor, and add that with 241b. of caster sugar to the other liquor ; after stirring it up well, let it cool, and then stir in the sifted powder of senna and coriander. Let the whole remain in the jar to set, and it will soon be ready for use. Other receipts are given in which jalap, treacle, and apples find a place, but there are none better than the above. Dose from 1 teaspoonful upwards. CONFITS.—See Comfits. CONSERVES.—See Pic kles. Preserves, &c. CONSOMME.—The plain English of this culinary term of French introduction is “ consumed.” It might also he consummate—as “ a consummation devoutly to be desired ”—but as in the process of its preparation the first principle is to strengthen broth or soup by reduction by boiling. Consomme appeals to the former signification. “ Double ” broth is therefore the more correct definition of the term; and owing to this peculiarity, cooks are warned of a mistake very likely to lie made. The quantity is reduced by boiling to about half its original bulk; the seasonings—such as salt, pepper, and other spices, and aromatic herbs—that would be sufficient for the original quantity, would necessarily lie twice too much for the reduced broth or Consomme. Several futile attempts have been made by gastro- nomers to classify Consommes, as they have also tried in vain to draw distinctions between broths, soups, Consommes, potages, and bouillons; but as the receipts for what would be intermediaries of these classifications outnumber the classified soups themselves, it will not be advisable in this work to introduce such a useless arrangement. As a prime basis for Consommes we have the following,430 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Consomme—continued. which might almost be styled the “ Consomme stock,” for by some addition to this, almost all other Consommes may be prepared. Sometimes, however, the basis of the Consomme is either fish, veal, game, rabbit, or'chicken stock. These will, then, be specially indicated, and receipts for them found under their specified headings. Consomme Stock.—Cut up finely 121b. of shin of beef, put it into a stockpot with two scraped carrots, two peeled onions, | three washed leeks, a few sticks of celery, and a small bunch of parsley roots, all finely minced ; add six cloves, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and the whites and shells of six | eggs. Moisten this with 2galls. of broth and lqt. of water, | stir thoroughly for two or three minutes without ceasing, place it on the hot range, and add a few pieces of chicken or bones if handy. Simmer slowly for about four hours, skim off the grease, strain through a wet cloth into a glazed earthenware crock, and put away in a cool place for future use. The following receipts may be relied upon as of the very best, most of them being merely combinations of the Consomme stock given above: Andalusian Consomme (a l’Andalouse).-—Boil 3 table- spoonfuls of tapioca in lqt. of Consomme, add J pint of thin tomato sauce, boil for ten minutes, and serve with a few small veal or chicken quenelles. Colbert Consomme (a la Colbert).—Put six poached eggs into lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve in a hot tureen, or poach the eggs in the Consomme, and serve. Colbert Spring Consomme (a la Printanier Colbert). Prepared the same as for Colbert Consomme, adding J pint of cooked minced vegetables. Consomme with Biscottes.—Slightly warm 11b. of butter, and beat it with a spoon till creamy; stir in one by one the yolks of four eggs, and when frothy, mix in gradually Jib. of flour and the well-whipped whites of the four eggs; season the mixture with salt and grated nutmeg. Butter a baking-sheet, dust some flour over it, spread the mixture on it to about Jin. in thickness, and bake in a slow oven. Heat 2qts. of either game, poultry, or fish Consomme; when cooked, take the biscottes out of the oven, cut them into small squares, put them on a plate, and serve with the soup in a soup-tureen. Consomme with Celery (au Celeri).—Pare and blanch half a root of celery, cut it up into equal-sized shreds, put it in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, Joz. of J smoked, cooked tongue, and six mushrooms, shred very small.. Pour lqt. of hot Consomme over this, and serve. Consomme with Chestnut Timbales.—Put J wineglassful of Madeira wine and a bouquet garni into a saucepan with 3 pints of game-stock Consomme, and boil well together for two hours. Have ready 3 table-spoonfuls of puree of chestnuts, mixing in the yolks of three eggs, and adding a very small quantity of salt and pepper. Take six small timbale-moulds, butter them well, and fill them with the preparation. Poach for two minutes, and let them get cool before turning out of the moulds. Put them in a soup-tureen, and serve, adding the boiling Consommd. Consomme with Chicken Custard.—Take 2oz. of cooked chicken’s flesh, pound it well in a mortar, pass it through a fine sieve, and mix with it two eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of milk, twelve drops of essence of almonds, and salt, nutmeg, and cayenne to taste. Mix them well, put into three or four well buttered dariole-moulds, and put them in the bain-marie until they are set, which will take about twenty minutes. Then take them out, cut into various shapes, put them into the tureen, and pour over lqt. of boiling Consomme. A few points of asparagus, or green peas and chervil-leaves, may also be added with advantage. Consomme with Chicken Timbales.—Proceed as for Royal Consomme (No. 2). Have ready two chicken timbales coloured green -with spinach-juice, also two red ones coloured with carmine, and two plain ones. Arrange them alternately in the tureen, pour over lqt. of boiling Consommil, and serve. Consomme with Choux (aux Choux).—Make a handful of croutons the size of the little finger with 2oz. of choux-paste, cook them on a tin dish in the oven for ten minutes, and fill them with chicken forcemeat pressed through a cornet. Put C onsommd—continued. them in a tureen with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked peas and 2 table-spoonfuls of sliced mushrooms, pour lqt. of Consomme over, and serve. Consomme with Darioles (aux Darioles).—Put into a mortar 6oz. of lean cooked ham, pound it well, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of thick bechamel sauce, the yolks of six eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree, a little cayenne, and two eggs. Strain the preparation through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of Consomme and 2 table- spoonfuls of Madeira wine; turn into well-buttered dariole- moulds, put them in the bain-marie, or in a saucepan of boiling- water, and let them poach. Have ready 2qts. of chicken Consomme. Turn the preparation out of the moulds, cut it into quarters, put these in a soup-tureen with 1 breakfast-cupful of freshly-boiled green peas, pour over the Consomme (which should be boiling), and serve. Consomme with Fish Quenelles (au Poisson).—Mix a little crayfish butter with eight fish quenelles; fill six long- shaped quenelle moulds with this, and poach them in salted water for two minutes; drain, and after turning them out of the moulds put them into a tureen with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas and the same quantity of boiled rice, pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over all, and serve. Consomme with Game Ravioles (aux Ravioles).—Take an uncooked partridge or pheasant, cut off two strips (fillets) of the flesh, remove the skin and sinews, cut it up into small pieces, and put into a mor-tar with half the bulk of cooked calf’s brains and the same quantity of raw ox-marrow and- grated Parmesan cheese. Pound well, add the yolks of two eggs, take the mixture out of the mortar, and make five or six dozen ravioles with it. Have ready some boiling salted water, and about five minutes before the ravioles are required, plunge them in the water, and boil up a little ; take the pan off the fire, let the ravioles remain for three minutes longer, take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, place them in the soup- tureen, and pour about 2Jqts. of Consommti over. Consomme with Green Peas (aux Fois).—Cut into small pieces about half a breast of a cooked chicken, put it into a tureen, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled rice, 2 table- spoonfuls of cooked green peas, and one truffle cut into dice. Pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over all, an l serve with gi-ated cheese on a separate dish. Consomme with Noques (aux Noques).—Put Jgall. of Con- somme into a stewpan over the fire ; cut Jib. of raw veal into slices, chop the meat very fine, put it into a mortar with 5oz. of butter, and pound well; rub this into a puree through a fine sieve, put the puree back into the mortar, season it with salt and pepper to taste and a few spices, and add to it about three-quarters its bulk of choux-paste, made thick with eggs and a handful of finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Beat it well together, and when it is mixed, take it out in small quantities with a teaspoon, and drop into the hot Consomme to make the noques. Boil up for a few minutes, put the lid on the pan, and set it by the side of the fii-e for three minutes. Take out the noques, drain, put them into the tureen, and strain the Consomme over them. Consomme with Onions (a l’Oignon).—Add to the well- beaten whites of four eggs J pint of puree of onions and J pint of cream. Beat well together, and season with a very small quantity of grated nutmeg- and J table-spoonful of salt. Fill three timbale-moulds (previously well buttered) with the mixture; poach them in water to half their height for six minutes, and turn out. Cut them into twelve pieces, and put them in the soup-tureen, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops and the same quantity of green peas. Pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over, and serve. Consomme with Pancakes (aux Crepes).—Prepare two light pancakes, cover one with chicken forcemeat, and sprinkle over a little grated Parmesan cheese; put the other pancake on top, cut them in twelve pieces, and serve with lqt. of boiling Consomme poured over. Consomme with Pearl Barley (a l’Orge).—Well wash 3 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, drain, put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of Consomme, and let it boil for forty minutes. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked breast of chicken cut in dice, 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas, and serve in a hot tureen.431 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sautes, <£•<;., referred to, see under their special heads. Consomme—continued. Consomme—continued. Consomme on Plates (aux Plats).—Make about ljqts. of Consomme (as for Consomme with Quenelles, No. 2), strain it, and place by the side of the fire to keep hot. Cut off some 1-in. slices of stale brown bread, and shape them 2in. by lin., keeping the crust on. Place about seven or eight of these pieces of bread upon each plate, arranged in a circle, leaning- on their edges, and one edge overlapping the next. Slightly butter the centres of the plates so dressed, break a fresh egg and pour it in, add some salt and pepper, and pour a little of the Consomme on the bottom of each plate. Put them into a gentle oven, so as to lightly poach the egg, take them out, pour a little more of the Consomme over the bread, and serve the plates and a tureenful of the Consomme separately. The Consomme should have a garnish of small vegetables mixed up with it. Consomme witli Quenelles (aux Quenelles).—(1) Prepare eighteen small quenelles (see Pig. 510), arrange them in a buttered stewpan, taking care that they do not touch each Fig. 510. Rolling Small Quenelles. other, pour some salted water over them, and poach for two minutes. Drain on a sieve, put them in the tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme poured over them, and serve. (2) Remove the flesh from an uncooked chicken, and with it make some quenelle forcemeat. Take ilb. of lean beef and the same quantity of veal, chop it up fine, put it into a stewpan with two well-beaten eggs, and moisten with 3qts. of cold broth, with the fat skimmed oft'. Chop a cooked fowl into pieces, put .them in the pan with the legs, wings, giblets, and back of the raw chicken, and a finely-minced carrot, leek, and small piece of celery. Put the pan on a good fire, let it boil gently, and when it begins to bubble, it must be removed to the side, so that only one side will be boiling-. Take two tea- spoons and mould the forcemeat into small quenelles, throw them into boiling water to poach, take them out, drain on a strainer, and put them into the tureen. Then remove the fat, and strain the Consomme through a damped cloth over the quenelles. (3) Make a dozen chicken quenelles, colour one-tliird of them with pounded tarragon, another with lobster coral, and the other with pounded truffles, put them into separate pans, poach them in the bain-marie, and put them into cold water until a game Consomme is ready; then put them into the tureen, and pour the boiling Consomme over them. Serve very hot. (4) Butter the bottom and sides of twelve quenelle moulds, decorate them with sliced truffles and cooked smoked tongue, fill them with chicken forcemeat, poach them in salted water for two minutes, turn them out of the moulds, and serve in a hot tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme poured over them. (5) Put 14 teacupfuls of chicken forcemeat in a paper cornet, and cut away the end of the cornet, leaving a ^in. aperture. Butter a pan, and with the forcemeat make eighteen round quenelles. Put on top of each quenelle a small slice of truffle, poach them for two minutes in white broth, drain them in a hair sieve, and serve in the tureen, after pouring lqt. of Consomme over them and adding 1 table- spoonful of cooked green peas and six cooked cocks’ combs. Consomme with Rice and Cream (au Creme de Riz).— Remove the fat from 4gall. of Consomme or white stock, put it into a stewpan, place it on the fire to boil, and when on I the point of boiling, stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of ground rice, previously moistened with a little of the stock. Boil for ten minutes, add 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and salt, boil again, and when the rice is quite done, pour in 4 pint of boiling- cream. Remove from the fire, strain, and serve. Duchess Consomme (a la Duchesse). - Rub a small baking- sheet with butter, cover it with 4oz. of choux-paste rolled out about jin. thick, cook in the oven for six minutes, and then cover the paste with forcemeat in small lumps at a little distance apart, pressed through a cornet. Cut the paste with »a paste-cutter into twelve equal-sized pieces, each piece holding a lump of the forcemeat, put them in the tureen, pour lqt. of boiling Consomme over, and serve. English Consomme (a l’Anglaise).—Add 1 teacupful of minced cooked fowl and 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas to lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve very hot. Gourmet Consomme (a l’Epicure).—Cut three thin slices from the centres of three round dinner rolls, toast them on one side, and mask them on that side with a good coating of grated Parmesan cheese. Dust a little pepper over, place them on a gridiron, and put in the oven until the cheese is nearly melted and a little browned. Take them out, put them on a warm dish, and keep them quite hot. Meanwhile put lqt. of game or chicken Consomme into a stewpan, place it on the fire, let it boil, and immediately pour in 4 tumblerful of Madeira; then put in eight or ten fresh eggs, one at a time, without breaking the yolks, and let them poach in it. When the liquor begins to boil, cover over the pan, and remove it to the side of the fire. Take out the eggs, and put them on the pieces of toast. Strain the Consomme through a sieve, and serve it in a tureen, with the eggs and toast separately. Indian Consomme (a 1’ Indienne).—Cut one cooked artichoke- bottom into dice, and one slice of fried egg-plant fruit into pieces, drain them on a cloth to remove all the fat, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked rice and 1 teaspoonful of curry- powder rubbed smooth in a little water, put these into a soup-tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve. Italian Consomme (a 1’ Italienne). — Put lqt. of Consomme into a saucepan, boil quickly, add f breakfast-cupful of Italian paste, cook for six minutes, stirring frequently, and sei-ve. When macaroni, rice, spaghetti, &e., are used, they must be parboiled, and broken into pieces before being added to the Consomme. Neapolitan Consomme (a la Napolitaine).—Cut into pieces 2oz. of cooked macaroni, adding 40z- of chopped cooked tongue, 4°z- of lean cooked ham, and two or three mush- rooms cut into small pieces. Pour all into a tureen with lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve with grated cheese on a separate dish. Olio Consomme.—This is a great favourite at the Court of Vienna, we are informed by Dubois, and is of Spanish origin. It is prepared as follows: Make some good stock with a piece of round of beef, two knuckles of veal blanched, and two calf’s feet, put it into a saucepan with some vegetables, a little salt, and lOqts. of broth, and boil very steadily. When the meat is quite done, take it out, let it drain, strain the liquor through a cloth, remove the fat, and let the broth set. Take a small quantity each of onions, leeks, carrots, celery-roots, and parsley-roots, mince coarsely, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, fry them, and when coloured, put in a pound or two of fat pork, two partridges, a shoulder of mutton, a couple of chickens, two hind-legs of a hare, and a few pheasant and chicken bones—the whole of them being partly boiled previously and the meat cut up in rather small pieces; then season with a piece of blanched ham, some uncooked poultry giblets, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 table-spoonful of whole spice. Let these all fry for a few minutes, pour in the stock, skim well, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until the meat is done. Pour the Consomme into another stewpan, remove the fat, add a bottle of Malaga or Madeira, and let it clarify by the side of the fire for an hour or so, keeping it well skimmed. It is then ready for use, or a little rice may be added. Royal Consomme (a la Royale).—(1) Beat two eggs, and mix with them 4 teacupful of milk and 1 pinch of salt. Butter a small basin, pour in the beaten eggs and milk, stand the basin in a larger one containing hot water, putTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 432 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Consomme—con tinued. them in the oven, and bake till the contents of the smajl basin are firm in the centre. Take the basins out, and put the small one away to cool; when set, cut the mixture into small well-shaped pieces, put them into a soup-tureen, pour over them lqt. of boiling clear Consomme, and serve. (2) Take the yolks of six eggs, two whole eggs, £ tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, £ table-spoonful of salt, and £ teaspoonful of cayenne, and beat well together in a bowl, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and with this fill six small buttered timbale-moulds. Stand them in a stewpan with boiling water till reduced to half their height, and place them in the oven until they are firm, which will take about fifteen minutes. Immediately after taking them from the moulds, cut them in slices, add them to lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve in a tureen. Royal Spring Consomme (a la Printanier Royale).— To lqt. of boiling Consomme add three moulds of Royal Consomme (No. 2) cut into pieces, also ^ pint of cooked minced vegetables, and serve. Sevigny Consomme (a la Sevigne).—(1) Take a chicken and a shank or two of veal, put them into a braising-pan, pour over 1 pint of salted water, add 1 table-spoonful of butter and an onion, and braise. After the meat is well cooked, take it out of the braising-pan, put it into a stewpan with lgall. of water, and let it stand by the side of the fire to simmer for four hours. Take a little of the liquor, put it in with that which was left in the braising-pan, boil it up, and as soon as the brown glaze is dissolved put it in with the other, adding a few vegetables, a little parsley, three or four cloves, half a bay-leaf, and two or three peppercorns, all bruised. When the stock is done, strain it, take off the grease, clarify it by adding a little raw finely-chopped beef and the whites of two eggs, boil up again, and pass it through a broth-napkin. With a 2in. biscuit- cutter cut some rounds out of slices of bread, fry them in butter, and when done, which will only take a minute or so, drain them, put one on each plate, and pour the Consomme over them. Serve very hot. (2) Fill six very small timbale-moulds with chicken force- meat, poach them for two minutes in hot water, and set them aside to cool; turn them out, put them into the tureen with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked asparagus-tops and 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas, pour over lqt. of boiling Consomme, and serve. Spring Consomme (a la Printanier).—Cut two carrots and one turnip into shapes with a vegetable scoop, simmer for twenty minutes in salted water, drain, and throw them into lqt. of Consomme in a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas and 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked French beans, cut into small pieces. Add a handful of chift'onnade (described under that head), cook five minutes more, and serve in a hot tureen. Swedish Consomme (a la Snedoise).—Chop up together one carrot, half a turnip, one leaf of a white cabbage, 2 table- spoonfuls of peas, and 1 table-spoonful of French beans, adding loz. of butter, ^ table-spoonful of salt, and a very little pepper. Keep the preparation very thick, and cook for twenty minutes in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan | cheese. Cut three French rolls into halves, take out the crumb, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle the tops with more cheese and a little warmed butter, put them into the oven for two minutes, and serve in a hot soup-tureen, with 3 pints of Consomme poured over. CONSTANCE PUDDING.—See Puddings. CONTI SOUP.—See Soups. a Wedge of Truffle. B Fillet contised. Fig. 511. Mode of Contising. CONTISING.—This is a culinary term adopted into our high-class kitchens from the French contiser, which Contising—continued. means, literally, “ to wedge.” Slits are cut with a knife into fillets of poultry, game, or fish, and wedge-shaped slices of truffle (see Fig. 511, a), tongue, or other savoury meats let in (see Fig. 511, b). The effect is good if neatly executed, and a combination of flarvours acquired that is indisputable. COOES AND COOEING.—Looking back through the long vistas of culinary history, and comparing modern cookery with the earliest efforts of which we have any record, it is interesting to note the circumstances that have given impetus to improvements, and the simple, almost imperceptible, changes that have followed each other in quickening succession, until what probably origi- nated in an accidental discovery born of a knowledge of fire, has resulted in an exceedingly fine art. The origin of the term “ Cook ” can be traced back to the mediaeval Romans, whose “Coquere”has proved a convenient basis of this and other words used in our language ; notably, cake, coke, and concoction. Rome was at one time the mother of cookery, for the practice was there fostered by lavish expenditure, and encouraged by love of luxury : that is to say, in the days when the Empire stood at its highest pin- nacle, and was preparing for itself the agents of its ulti- mate ruin. Luxury led to extravagance, extravagance to unequalled folly and vice; but for all that, We do not admit that the downfall of a nation can be encompassed by intro- ducing high art into its cookery. According to Careme, the Romans knew little or nothing of the culinary art as we know it, nor were they by any means gourmets ; on the contrary, their inclinations, so far as feasting was con- cerned, were most unrefined, and they washed down patties of peacocks’ brains with huge goblets of rich, sweet, highly- spiced, and fruity wines. What manner of gourmet could he be who would pretend to catch the delicate flavour of an artistic viand after nourishing his palate with spiced wine and deluging his stomach with drinking! The Romans, then, were not gourmets, in spite of their vaunted Apieius, Lucullus, and Epicurus—the latter giving his name to our “ epicures.” They were more properly gourmands ; glut- tonous rather than dainty, estimating the culinary merit of dishes by their cost. Cleopatra, for instance, is reputed to have dissolved a priceless pearl in wine to please Antony ; but as pearls require very strong acid to dissolve them, and such acids art not pleasing to the taste, it is doubtful if the story has any foundation in truth. Pro- bably many other similar stories are equally doubtful. The French—or Gauls, as they were called in the palmy days of Rome—were then, as now, famous for their culinary talents ; so much so, that when the Roman army invaded and conquered the “ bearded ” Gaul, as told by Caesar in his “ De Bello Gallico,” many of the captives were carried to Rome as slaves, and billeted to the kitchens of nobles. In an old print, preserved in the British Museum, is the drawing of a Roman kitchen, and therein we see the bearded Gaul lording it over a few cringing Roman ser- vants without beards. This peculiarity of the beards and no beards confirms the story that the Gallic, or French, slave was the original Roman chef. When Julius Caesar landed in Britain from the French coast, it is just pro- bable that he brought some of his French Cooks with him, as well as the name, for amongst the Anglo-Saxon tra- ditions we find the word “Kok” for Cook. The Germans (Caesar’s “ Allemanni”) have also their Koch (Cook), derived from the Roman Coquere, and so also is the French Cuire, from which is obtained their Cuisinier. It is obvious, then, that we get our word “ Cook ” either direct from Rome, or indirectly through the Anglo alliance with the German Saxon. An amusing writer has observed that the Latin for Gaul I and game-cock are the same—“ Gallus.” The French for cock is Coq, being the first syllable, or root, of coquere ; hence he deems it probable that the term Cook and coquere may have received their origin from the Gallic coq—an argument that appears to gain some sort of confirmation0. .T. CORBLET. C. NORVYAK. MODERN CHEFS. COOKS, AND CONFECTIONERS. C. WILLIN' T. WALLACE. W. A. RAWSON.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 433 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Cfee., referred to, see under their special heads. Cooks and Cooking—continued. in the confusion that often exists between the words roast and roost. The “ ruler of the roast ” might be the ruler of the roost, according to Chaucer, for he has written, “ A fat swan loved he best of any roost.” Whether, therefore, the name “ Cook ” is synonymous with “ cock ” or not, or roast with roost, concerns us no longer. The term Cook and “ to cook ” conveys to our modern intelligence such a profundity of meaning that we need to consider the art and its professors as we find them to-day, rather than waste precious time in seeking for their origin. Athenseus describes a Cook in very absolute terms. He wrote : To waste some beef, to carve a joint with neatness, To boil up sauces, and to blow the fii-e, Is anybody’s task; he who does this Is but a seasoner and broth-maker. A. Cook is quite another thing-. His mind Must comprehend all facts and circumstances, Where is the place, and what the time of supper; Who are the guests, and who the entei-tainer ; What fish he ought to buy, and where to buy it. From which some idea may be gathered of the duties ascribed to the chef de cuisine; but, with the exception of those whom we may consider masters of their art, such accomplishments are rarely to be found. It would be out of place here to declaim against the sad ignorance that exists amongst Cooks; we should rather sympathise with those from whom big things are expected from slender means and still slighter attain- ments. How are our Cooks to learn ? Not from the multitude of cookery books, surely, for they can but convey confusion to the student ; not from classes, for in these the members are generally taught that which is beyond either their abilities or necessities, omitting the plain elementary instruction which is so lamentably lacking amongst the Cooks who are entrusted with the care of our kitchens and the providing. It must not be supposed from the foregoing remarks that there are no such practitioners as “ good plain Cooks ” to be found, for experience tells us that there are some about if you can manage to find them; but the difficulty is to define a good plain Cook, hence the title has been assumed by those who know little or nothing of the art, to the detriment of those who are better informed. By the establishment of a system of examinations and diplomas, good Cooks would be speedily sorted out and the duffers exposed. Such a system should be supported by all those who employ Cooks, and then none should be engaged unless they are duly certificated, either as first, second, or third class. Professional Cooks have been treated with great defer- ence in this and all other civilised countries, and have reached honours and incomes that provoke much jealousy. Some have accordingly invested their art with a cloak of mystery, lest others should learn it, and, perhaps, sur- pass them; and others have used the same garb to conceal their own ignorance. Happily a much better state of culinary affairs is being developed by such genuine professors as those numbered on the staff of this Ency- clopaedia, and the desire to improve the tone of the profession by freely imparting to others the knowledge they have spent lives in acquiring, marks an era in the advance of Cookery. Cookery has not been developed in a day: it has had its infancy, like every other giant, and has grown to what it now is by careful training and the accumulations of ages. It has had its dark days, when superstition, prejudice, vulgar pretension, and humbug have borne it down; but we may now generously assume that it has at last shaken itself clear, as shown by the teachings given in this book, and may soon be expected to stand forth great and glorious as a full-grown imperishable art. Cooks and Cooking—continued. In spite of the deference paid to the Cook, these worthy persons have not always been treated well. Grimod de la Reyniere observes compassionately of them : “ We enjoy the result of their toils without considering the cost of the ineffable enjoyment they procure for us, and without reflecting that they only derive, from their incessant exer- tions, impaired health and means of subsistence that are often precarious and almost always moderate. They spend their best days in heat and obscurity, and their last in poverty too often bordering on destitution.” Of course, there are exceptions to this rule, and amongst these we may mention Vatel, Laguipiere, Careme, Bernard, Urban Dubois, Gouffe, Ude, Francatelli, Soyer, and many others; but these exceptions only go to prove the rule. Neverthe- less it is within the bounds of possibility that many of our existing culinary artists will soon be enabled to emerge at will from obscurity, and receive the great honours that are due to their extraordinary skill. Of the many triumphs of the culinary art abundant examples will be found amongst the pages of this Encyclopaedia, and it will be observed that simplicity and economy are the spirit of artistic cookery—that some of the very tastiest and most exquisite dishes are the easiest prepared, and the least expensive. Francatelli wrote : “ Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other arts.” Excess in the quantity of spices and condiments is the bane of English cookery. Soyer protested strongly against culinary extravagance, though he was in his practice perhaps the most extravagant cook that ever lived, as witness the celebrated hundred- guinea soup. Urban Dubois believes that there is more extravagance and waste in a badly-conducted middle- class kitchen than in the whole array of a royal kitchen, with its numerous and varied demands. This should not be so, nor will it remain so, provided due attention be paid to the numerous articles on the various culinary processes, accompanied by practical receipts, with which we are herein surrounded. In time to come, it is to lie hoped that the words of Brillat-Savarin may find ample verification: “ All should profit by the aid of the cook— except the apothecary.” COOKIES.—A variety of small, flat, sweet cakes, highly esteemed in America. They are there made in almost every household, and give a sort of tone to the family by their quality. The term is evidently derived from the German kuchen or the French Provencal couques. The following receipts have been supplied to us by American pastrycooks. Cookies are best kept stored in tin boxes with closely-fitting lids. (1) Beat 7oz. of warmed butter with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and when creamy sift in 5 breakfast-cupfuls of flour. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of saleratus (ammonia) in Fig. 512. Cookies. 1 table-spoonful of milk, add it tojthe flour, with one beaten egg, and flavour to taste. Boll the dough out thick, divide into little cakes, and bake on buttered baking-sheets (see Fig. 512) for about ten minutes. (2) Cream 4oz. of butter by beating it in a dish, add |lb. of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of milk, and one beaten egg; mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 1 teacupful of flour, sift 2 o434 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cookies—continued. it in with the butter, work in more flour, enough to make a soft dough, roll out the dough, sprinkle caster sugar on the' top, cut into little cakes, and bake them for about ten minutes. (3) Mix in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and 1 tea- cupful of warmed butter, and when these are beaten to a cream, add lib. of flour, in which has been mixed 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and beat all together with three eggs and 1 tea- cupful of milk. Roll out the dough, sift caster sugar over the surface, cut it into little cakes, put them on buttered baking- tins, and bake. (4) Beat Jib. of warmed butter with Jib. of caster sugar until it presents a creamy appearance; beat six eggs and mix them in, then add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, a few drops of essence of lemon or cinnamon flavouring, and enough flour sifted in gradually to make a soft dough. Smooth the dough, stand it on the table a few minutes previous to rolling out, roll it out, sift caster sugar over the surface, and cut into cakes ; put these on buttered baking-sheets, and bake. Cookies made ■with Cocoa-nut.—These are made in the same way as Cookies No. 2, with the addition of a little g’rated cocoa-nut, which should be mixed with the butter and sugar before adding the flour. Cookies made with Cornflour.—Many American cooks prefer to use cornflour; the method of preparation is the same as for other flour. Cookies made with Figs.—Put lib. each of butter and sifted sugar into a basin, work them to a cream, and add and beat in well eight eggs; put a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder into ljlb. of flour, sift well, add to the butter, together with 12oz. of chopped figs, and work the whole into a dough. Roll it out moderately thin, and cut into small rounds ; put these on a buttered baking-sheet, dust over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out, and let them get cold ; they are then ready for use. Cookies made with Ginger.—(1) Beat Jib. of butter and lib. of powdered white sugar to a cream; whip the yolks of two eggs with 1 table-spoonful of powdered ginger, J teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg'; then beat the eggs into the creamed butter, add the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth, stir in flour till it is a thick dough, and mix in lastly J gill of milk with a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in it. Roll this dough out very thin, cut it into small cakes, and bake in a hot oven till crisp. (2) Mix in a basin before the fire Jib. of butter, Jib. of sugar. Jib. of black molasses, two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 2 table-spoonfuls of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and work in lib. of flour, or enough to make a soft dough. Roll out to Jin. thick, and cut out shapes with a biscuit-cutter; put on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a steady oven. (3) Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed butter and 1 break- fast-cupful of caster sugar together, add 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 7 breakfast-cupfuls of flour; mix this in with the sugar and butter, add one egg, 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses, and 1 tea- spoonful of vinegar. When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, roll the dough out, shape it into little cakes, and bake for ten minutes on buttered baking-sheets. (4) Beat 7oz. of warmed butter with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar until creamy. Beat the yolks of four eggs with another breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, then mix them with the butter; beat the whites of the eggs and add them. Mix with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 2 table-spoonfuls of yellow ginger, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Stir this in with the butter mixture. Make the dough into several little balls, rolling them with floured hands, flatten them, set them a short distance from each other on buttered baking-pans, and bake for about ten minutes. Cookies made with Lemon.—Warm slightly Jib. of butter, and beat it to a cream together with lib. of sugar, the grated yellow rind of one and the strained juice of two lemons; after beating for at least five minutes, whisk in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and when they are well mixed, whisk in the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth; then stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff dough (about lib. - will be Cookies—-continued. enough). Roll the dough out on a floured pasteboard, cut it into cakes, and bake them quickly. New Year’s Cookies.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it till creamy with lib. of caster sugar; beat three eggs well and mix them with the butter, then stir in gradually 1 pint of the best sifted flour and 1 table-spoonful of caraway-seeds. Stir 1 teaspoonful of saleratus in 1 teacupful of milk until quite dissolved, then strain it, mix J teacupful of cider with it, and mix gradually in with the other ingredients. Work the mixture well, adding more flour, if required, to bring it to the desired stiffness. Dust some flour over the table, place the paste on it, roll it out, and cut it into round cakes. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, and bake them in a quick oven. When slightly browned, arrange the cakes on a hot dish, and serve. COQ DE BRUYERE.—Fr. for Blackcock—Cock of the Heath. COQ D’INDE. —Fr. for Turkey-cock—Cock of India. COQUILIiES. —Fr. for shells. Fish and other tasty meats are frequently served en Coquille—that is, in large scallop shells, or metal vessels made in these shapes (see Fig. 513). Some of these are fashioned with considerable skill and artistic taste, and are manufactured of silver, or white metal heavily electro-plated; others, again, are made of stout blocked tin. CORiACH.—There is a hot, red sauce called by this name, which is chiefly used for giving colour and flavour to other sauces, or as a relish. It is prepared by mace- rating cayenne pepper, walnut and mushroom pickles, garlic and cochineal with vinegar. A very good receipt for this has been contributed by an Indian cook. Mince very finely a handful of small red peppers, a third that quantity of garlic, six or eight pickled walnuts, J pint of g-ood mushroom ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of bruised cochineal. Put these in a stone jar and pour over 2qts. of best malt or white wine vinegar—the latter gives the prettier results—and leave this tightly corked to macerate for three or four weeks, giving the jar an occasional shake. Pour the clear liquor through a tammy, and put into small bottles for use. The dregs at the bottom of the jar may be pressed, or squeezed in a cloth, but are not of much further value, although it is sometimes recommended that they shall he saturated again; but the result would necessarily be most unreliable. CORALLINE. — A partially-cooked food prepared from Indian-corn; it is considered to be very nutritious, and is useful for making light puddings, blanc-manges, and other digestible dishes. CORBEILLES.— Fr. for baskets; applied by Con- tinental confectioners to all manner of vessels holding displayed fruits and flowers. CORDIALS AND LIQUEURS.—It is to the European Continent that we have to look for perfection in the preparation of Cordials and Liqueurs, and espe- cially to France, which maintains an unsurpassed reputation for its Benedictine, Chartreuse, Anisette, and numerous other Liqueurs, manufactured chiefly by monks as a source of no little profit to their fraternity. Holland is famous for its curacoa, and Belgium, Germany. Austria, Russia, and Italy are also noted for special productions.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 435 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauce$} <kcreferred to, see under their special heads.. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. In England many attempts have been made to make Liqueurs, but for some cause or another, perhaps preju- dice as much as any other, the efforts of the British Liqueurists hare not been crowned with success. Some- thing may be due to the superiority of French spirit, and the great attention paid by Frenchmen to the manufacture of the flavouring essences, which are gener- ally prepared from fresh and green herbs; but there are instances in which this excuse cannot be urged for our being left so hopelessly in the rear, having nothing better to boast of than cherry and ginger brandy, orange and gentian bitters, rue gin, and raspberry vinegar. In writing of foreign Liqueurs, Professor Simmonds, who may be acknowledged as an authority in these matters, and to whom we are indebted for much useful information, tells us in his book on “ Popular Beverages ” that ordinary and fine Liqueurs have improved much in quality during the past ten years, and this he attri- butes to an increase in the consumption, “ which has enabled the manufacturers to carry out the production on a larger scale, and to substitute spirits perfumed with Benzoin for the essential oils formerly used,” the flavour being greatly improved by this means. To obtain superfine qualities in Liqueurs, long keeping is recommended; but, as only a very few producers have space or capital sufficient to enable them to store a quantity for any length of time so as to acquire this advantage, the bulk of the Liqueurs sent into the market are neither perfect nor, in many cases, genuine. It is said by experts that the best Liqueurs, or those from which the fixed oils have been eliminated by maturing, are not offered for con- sumption under twelve months from the date of their making; but this cannot be said to apply to the great bulk of Liqueurs imported into this country. Liqueurs made in France to the extent of £6,000,000 sterling are, with the very small exception of 500,000galls. (at l2s. a gallon) sent over to us, consumed in the country; and those imported by France are insignificant in comparison; being chiefly curaeoa from Holland, maraschino from Italy, and kiimmel from Russia. The chief centres of production for distilling French Liqueurs are Paris and Lyons for all sorts, Marseilles for absinthe, Grenoble for its ratafias, and Dijon for cassis. The names usually applied to distinguish qualities are “ Elixir,” given to those of a yellowish hue, strongly aromatic; “ Eau,” or “ Creme,” to white Liqueurs; and “Ratafia,” to those darker ones which contain infusions of fruit or syrup. For further details of the standard foreign Cordials and Liqueurs it will be necessary to refer to their special headings, such as Absinthe, Alkermes, Benedictine, Centerba, Chartreuse, Crambamboli, Curaeoa, Falernum, Hogplum, Juleps, Kummel, Kirsch or Kirschen- wasser, Maraschino, Nectar, Negus, Noyeau, Punch, Raki, Ratafia, Shrub or Santa, and others. In America the Cordials and Liqueurs are more original and pronounced, but many a tasty Liqueur is served to the feminine - portion of the population under the dis- guise of a temperance name: as “ French Strawberry Cream Soda,” “ French Sherbet,” and “ Chocolate Ro- maine,” the latter being a mixture of sherry and chocolate, which a witty writer observes must be a marvellous cure for headache, as that ailment is generally alleged as the excuse for partaking of the beverage. r' For the use of such as may desire to manufacture Cordials or Liqueurs for themselves the following hints and suggestions should be useful: All dry substances, as cloves, cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg must be ground or pounded very fine, and leaves, flowers, peel, figs, and similar ingredients should be previously cut up into the smallest possible pieces, and used quite fresh if possible; but if dried, probably nearly double the quantity in bulk will be required. Almonds and other kernels will have to be pounded to a paste in a mortar with a small Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. quantity of spirits or water, added to prevent them oiling. When the prescribed ingredients are ready prepared as above, they are to be put into a jar large enough to hold them with the quantity of spirit ordered, and the jar well corked down for a month. Give the jar a thorough shaking every day, and let it stand in a moderately warm place. When the month has ex- pired, pour off the spirit into an- other vessel, and pour on the spices, &c., the quantity of water ordered in the receipt, and let it stand upon them for a week, shaking as before. Then pour this water off, press out, and mix with the spirit, adding at that time what sugar and colouring- matter is ordered, and then strain the lot through a flannel bag. If essential oils are used, they must be diluted with some part of the spirit before being added to the other ingredients. Filtering through paper (see Filtering) is advisable if the macerated spirits, and those with essential oils dissolved in them, are not bright and clear. See Fig. 514. Besides those Liqueurs which are most generally known, and worthy of being treated separately (see above), there are many others which have their valuable qualities, and which require no special knowledge or experience for their manufacture. Amongst these are to be found the productions of various countries, including our own sweet Cordials, and many can be equally well produced if French spirit is used for macerating. Aimable Vainqueur.—This is the name of a French Liqueur not much known, but for the preparation of which the follow- ing receipt is given : J drachm of the essential oil of lemon, I drachm each of the essential oils of neroli and angelica, 5 drops of the extract of vanilla, and lib. of loaf sugar pre- viously boiled to a syrup in I pint of water. Shake well together, and leave for a month to blend. Fig. 514. Straining Cor- dials and Liqueurs. Amer d’AngTeterre.—A Dantzic Liqueur of a brown colour, and of an exceedingly aromatic flavour, not much known in this country, in spite of its name, though standing- high in local esteem. The ingredients and proportions used in its preparation are: lemon-peel, 10oz.; cumin, 6oz. ; cinnamon, 4oz.; thyme, sage, and galanga, 2oz. each; cloves, ljoz.; and nutmeg, loz., macerated for a fortnight in lflqts. of spirits of wine. When this is filtered off, add 18qts. of water with 8qts. of capillaire, and a little burnt sugar to colour. Amour sans Fin.—Take two lemons and two oranges, chop them up fine, and macerate in 3qts. of proof spirits of wine. Dissolve 51b. of loaf sugar in 3qts. of water to which J pint of rose-water has been added, and colour either yellow or red. Aqua Bianca.—This is a German Liqueur, made by dissolving 10 drops each of oil of bergamot, oil of citron, oil of lemon, 011 of amber, and oil of peppermint, in 3qts. of spirits of wine : adding after lqt. of rose-water, 3 pints of pure water, and lqt. of capillaire. Barbados Cream.—(1) Put the thin rinds of three lemons and oranges into stone jars or bottles with 3 drachms each of cloves and cinnamon, and 1 drachm of mace; pour in 5qts. of spirits of wine 60deg\ over proof, and let this remain for four or five weeks ; filter, mix in 4qts. of water and 2iqts. of capillaire, and bottle when mixed. (2) This is made in the same way as No. 1, using the peel of three oranges, 2oz. of cinnamon, 1 drachm of mace, § drachm of cloves, |oz. each of bitter almonds and coriander, i- drachm of nutmeg, 7^qts. of proof spirits of wine, 7Iqts. of water, and 5qts. of capillaire. Barbados Water.—This is a favourite Liqueur in Scotland, and is made by infusing 2oz. of orange-peel, 4oz. of lemon-peel, O 9 -J U HTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 436 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. and a few bruised cloves, in 2qts. of proof spirit. In ten days’ time filter the spirit off the other ingredients and sweeten with syrup. Banme Consatateur.—A very pleasant violet-coloured Liqueur manufactured in some parts of France. Macerate J- drachm of mace in 3 pints of proof spirit, and dissolve in it 1| drachms of spirits of jessamine, 1 drachm each of spirits of orange- flowers and spirits of rose, and i drachm of tincture of vanilla; when sufficiently blended, filter off, and dissolve in the spirit lilb. of loaf sugar. Bottle for use. Baume des Grecs.—This is a French Liqueur of local repute only. It is coloured delicate rose, and prepared as follows: In 5 pints of proof spirit macerate loz. of angelica-seed, Joz. of coriander-seed, 1 drachm each of fennel-seed and aniseed, and a lemon minced small. Macerate, colour, filter off, and add ljlb. of loaf sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water. Chine-Chine.—Put Jib. of bitter almonds, loz. of angelica-seed, and 5 drachm of mace into stone jars or bottles, pour in 4|qts. of proof spirits of wine, and let them macerate for a month or five weeks ; filter, dissolve 2jlbs. of loaf sugar in it, add 5 drops of oil of cinnamon, 4oz. of orange-flower water, and lqt. of water; stir well, and bottle. A little pale yellow colouring should be added before bottling. Cliristoplielet.—Put 5oz. of finely-chopped figs and 2oz. each of ground orris-root and aniseed into jars, with loz. each of ground cinnamon, sage, and coriander, Joz. each of ground cardamom and galanga, and 2oz. of saffron, also ground; pour over 4qts. of Medoc wine and 9jqts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and let them stand for a month, frequently shaking the bottles, which must be well corked and kept, if possible, in a warm place. Pour off the spirit into a basin, add 4qts. of capillaire and 3Jqts. of water to the figs, &c., and let this stand for a few days, shaking continually; pour it off, mix it with the spirit, filter through flannel, and bottle. Coquette Flatteuse.—Bub the peel off four or five lemons and two large or three small oranges with 41b. of loaf sugar, and put into stone jars or bottles; pour in 6qts. of proof spirits of wine, and add 2Juz. of dry tops of hyssop and Joz. of musk roses. Let this macerate for from three to five weeks, shaking the bottles occasionally; filter, add lqt. of water, and bottle in small bottles. A little red colouring should be mixed in. Creme de Macaron.—Put 5loz. of bitter almonds and 3 drachms each of cardamom, cinnamon, and cloves into stone jars or bottles, pour in 5qts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and let them macerate for a month; add lqt. each of rose-water and orange-flower water, 2qts. of filtered water, and 2^-qts. of capillaire ; filter, and bottle for use. Creme Mojou.—Put loz. each of ground cinnamon and mace into stone jars, with 2 drachms of nutmeg and ljoz. of rosemary- leaves, and pour over 9jqts. of proof spirits of wine. Let this macerate for four or five weeks, add 2qts. each of rose- and orange-flower water, ^ drachm of essence of amber, 1 drachm each of essence of vanilla and berg'amot, 3|qts. of water, and 4qts. of capillaire. Filter through flannel, add a little rose colouring, and bottle for use. Creme Romantique.—Put 9|qts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof into stone jars or bottles, add 2oz. each of lemon- peel, mace, lavender-flowers, and marjoram, loz. of cinnamon, and 3OZ. of cloves, and let them remain for three or four weeks to macerate, stirring frequently. Add this to -|oz. of essence of vanilla, 2|qts. of rose-water, 4qts. of capillaire, and 4|qts. of water; filter, add a little rose colouring, and bottle. Creme Voizot.—Put 9Jqts. of spirits of wine into stone jars or bottles, and add 2oz. of lemon-peel, loz. of orange-peel, ^•oz. each of rosemary-leaves, • balm, and cinnamon, |oz. of peppermint, and 2 drachms each of cloves, nutmegs, mastic, and storax. Shake the bottles frequently for about a month, and add to the whole 2qts. each of rose-, orange- flower, balm- and peppermint-waters, J drachm of essence of vanilla, and 4qts. of capillaire. Filter, stir in a little green colouring, and bottle. Doree Cordial.—Put into a bowl 3qts. each of brandy and Malaga wine, add ^oz. each of saffron, Peruvian bark, cinnamon, and bitter orange-peel, and let them digest for seven or eight days. Strain into another bowl, add 21b. of loaf sugar, let Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. this dissolve, pour the cordial into bottles, cork them up securely, and use as required. Eau des Abbes.—Chop as fine as possible 3oz. of lemon-peel and lloz. of orange-peel; put them into a large jar or bottle with loz. of aniseed, loz. of juniper-berries, and \oz. each of sage and peppermint, all finely powdered; pour in 4| pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and shake the bottle frequently for a month. Pour off the spirit, add to the bottle 3f pints of water, shake the bottle, and let this remain for a few days; strain into the spirits, pressing out as much as possible, and add lqt. of capillaire and a little red colouring. Filter, and bottle. Eau Aerienne (Luft Wasserl.—The same as for Eatj Cordiale, using 2oz. each of orris-root, lavender, and camomile-flowers, loz. each of sage and sassafras, 2^oz. of cin- namon, 2oz. each of fennel-seed and rosemary-leaves, 21-oz. of cumin, and 6oz. of finely-chopped figs. The same quantity of spirits of wine, water, and capillaire is also used. Eau d’Amour.— Put 5oz. of finely-chopped lemon-peel into bottles with loz. of bitter almonds pounded to a paste with a little spirits, 4oz. of finely-chopped figs, I50Z. of cinnamon, and loz. each of lavender and mace, all ground ; pour in 9 J pints of spirits of wine GOdeg. over proof, and let it remain in a warm place for a month, frequently shaking the bottle. Strain off the spirit, add to the bottles 6f pints of water, let this stand for a few days, strain, and add it to the spirit, together with lqt. of Muscat wine and a little rose colouring ; filter through flannel, and bottle for use. Or it may be made as above, but using 3oz. each of bitter almonds and lemon-peel, ljoz. of cinnamon, Joz. of mace, foz. of cloves, 2oz. of lavender-flowers, 9i pints of spirits of wine, 2qts. of Muscat wine, 9 drops of oil of amber, 3^ pints each of water and capillaire, and rose colouring as before. Eau d’Argent.—(1) Put into a bottle or jar lfoz. of flower of the lily, loz. of bitter almonds pounded to a paste with a little spirits, 4 drachms each of peppermint and nutmeg, Joz. of cinnamon, |oz. of aniseed, 2 drachms of angelica-root, and 1 drachm of cloves. All the dry ingredients must be finely ground. Pour in 4f pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, and shake the bottle daily for a month. Pour off the spirit, add 3y pints of water to the bottle, shake this frequently for a few days, strain it into a vessel containing the spirit, squeezing out as much as possible, add lqt. of capillaire, filter through flannel, and bottle for use. (2) Made as above, using ljoz. of finely-chopped lemon-peel, 4 drachms of cloves, 3 drachms each of ground angelica-seed, aniseed, and orris-root, 4 drachms of powdered cinnamon, 4J pints of spirits of wine, 3 pint of balm-water, ljqts. of water, lqt. of capillaire, and a little pink colouring. Eau de Baal.—Put into a bottle 2|oz. each of orange-peel, cin- namon, and sage, Joz. of cloves, loz. each of aniseed, fennel- seed, and rosemary-leaves, and l|-oz. of camomile. Pour in 9|qts. of spirits of wine GOdeg. over proof, and add foz. each of galanga and vanilla. Shake the bottle frequently for a month, keeping it, if possible, in a warm place. Pour off the spirit, add to the bottle 4qts. of capillaire, 7qts. of water, and a little red colouring ; let this stand for a few days, pour it off, mix in with the spirits, filter through flannel, and bottle. The orange-peel should be very finely chopped, and the other ingredients powdered. Eau Carminative.—Prepared in the same way as Eau Cor- diale, using 3oz. each of finely-chopped lemon- and orange- peel, 2oz. of cumin, l-|oz. each of aniseed, camomile, and juniper-berries, loz. of mint, Joz. of nutmeg, all finely powdered, and using the same quantity of spirits, water, and capillaire. Eau Cordiale.—Chop lflb. of lemon-peel as fine as possible, put it into jars or bottles with 2jOz. of balm, and 2oz. each of ground coriander and aniseed, 4oz. of ground cinnamon, loz. of mace, and Joz. of grated nutmeg; pour in 9|qts. of spirits of wine, and shake the jars (which should be well corked) daily for a month. Pour off the spirits, add to the jars 7qts. of water, let it stand for a few days, strain into the spirits, add 4qts. of capillaire and a little blue colouring, filter, and bottle. Eau Divine.—Prepared as for Eau Cordiale, using 9Jqts. of spirits of wine to 12oz. of chopped lemon-peel and 2oz. ofTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 437 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. ground coriander, and loz. each of ground mace and carda- mom. Pour this off, and add f drachm of oil of bergamot, 1 drachm of oil of neroli, 4qts. of capillaire, and 7qts. of water. Eau des Favorites.—Put 4oz. each of ground aniseed and cinnamon into jars or bottles with 3oz. each of orange-flowers and juniper-berries, half the quantity each of orange-peel and rosemary-leaves, |oz. of thyme, and loz. each of mint, penny- royal, and sage, and add 91qts. of spirits of wine; proceed as for Eau Cordiale, adding 2qts. of orange-flower water, 5qts. of water, and 4qts. of capillaire. Eau Forcifiere.—Prepared as for Eau Cordiale, substituting for the other ingredients 4oz. of camomile, 3oz. each of juniper- berries and orange-peel, 2oz. of rosemary-leaves, loz. of cinnamon, loz. of cloves, foz. of cardamom, and a similar quantity of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, capillaire, and water. Eau de Lisette.—Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, using lib. of lemon-peel, lfoz. of cinnamon, fib. of dates, 4oz. each of figs and raisins, foz. of mace, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7fqts. of water, 5qts. of capillaire, and a little red colouring. Eau Miraculeuse. —The same as for Eau Cordiale, using- fib. each of chopped orange- and lemon-peel, 3oz. each of cinnamon and ginger, loz. of rosemary-leaves, loz. each of cloves, galanga, and mace, and foz. of orris-root. Use also 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7qts. of water, and 4qts. of capillaire, and colour the liqueur with a little red colouring. Eau Musettier.—Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, using 3oz. of dry lemon-peel, 2oz. of cinnamon, loz. each of sage, rosemary-leaves, and lavender-flowers, 6oz. of cloves, 9fqts. of spirits- of wine, 4qts. of capillaire, 2fqts. of water, 7£qts. of rose-water, and a little green colouring. Eau d’Or.—(1) With 31b. of sugar and lqt. of water prepare a syrup, clarify it with white of egg, and filter through a jelly- bag into a bowl. Float in two gold leaves, and as soon as they rise to the surface pour a little of the syrup over them with a spoon. Now add foz. each of lemon essence and orange-flower water, loz. of essence of almonds, and 2 tumbler- fuls of rum or spirit (plain), pour the whole into a glass bottle, and give it a shake before using. (2) Blanch and pound 4oz. of bitter almonds, adding gradually 8oz. of sugar; turn into a f gall. bottle or jar, add foz. of orange-flowers and 2oz. of lemon-peel thinly cut, fill up the bottle with over-proof spirits, and let it stand for a couple of weeks. Put two gold leaves into lqt. of syrup, as in No. 1, break them up, then add the spirit, which must first be filtered. Bottle, and use as required. (3) Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, with 12oz. of fresh lemon-peel and 5oz. of fresh orange-peel, loz. each of cinnamon and aniseed, foz. of juniper-berries, foz. each of nutmeg, orris-root, and rosemary-flowers, foz. each of cloves and cardamom, a similar quantity of spirits, water, and capil- laire, and a little yellow colouring. Eau de Faix.—The same as for Eau Cordiale, substituting for the other ingredients 3oz. each of orange- and lemon-peel, 2oz. each of rosemary-root, angelica-root, and sweet almonds, foz. each of aniseed, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 4qts. of capillaire, and 3fqts. of water. A little violet colouring should be added. Eau des Prelats.—Prepared the same as for Eau Cordiale, by steeping 8oz. of orange-peel, 6oz. of lemon-peel, lfoz. each of cinnamon and marjoram, loz. each of lavender and nosegay, loz. of vanilla, all finely chopped or powdered, in 9fqts. of spirits of wine, straining off the spirits, and adding to the jars or bottles 2oz. of essence of vanilla, lfqts. of Medoc wine, 2qts. each of water and orange-flower water, and 4qts. of capillaire. Filter and bottle as before. Eau de Pucelle.—Prepared in the same way as for Eau Cordiale, using 12oz. of juniper-berries, 2oz. of fennel-seed, lfoz. each of angelica-seed and cinnamon, foz. of cloves, and 9fqts. of spirits of wine, and adding 7fqts. of water, 5qts. of capillaire, and a little yellow colouring. Gaite Franqaise.—Pour 4qts. of proof spirits of wine into stone jars or bottles, and add the thin peel of thirty oranges, fib. of pounded cardamom, and foz. each of ground cloves Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. and cinnamon. Let these macerate for four or five weeks, and mix in lqt. of water, 51b. of sugar, and a slight rose colouring. Filter and bottle. Golden Wasser Liqueur.—Add twelve drops of oil of aniseed to lqt. of spirits of wine in a bottle, shake it well, then add six drops of oil of cinnamon, three of oil of roses, and eight of oil of citron, shaking the bottle as each oil is added, and until they are all dissolved. Pour in lqt. of syrup, strain the liquid throug’h filtering-paper, add a few squares of gold leaf cut up into small pieces, put the liquid into small bottles, and it is ready for use. Liqueur d'Amour.—Bruise in a mortar 4oz. of lavender-flowers, 2oz. of red rose petals, and loz. of blanched bitter almonds, adding a little sugar ; put them into a jar with lgall. of over-proof spirit, cork up securely, and shake vigorously daily for a month. Strain and filter, and if necessary fine with alum and salts of tartar ; draw off again into a bowl, add 2qts. of syrup, and twenty-five or thirty drops of spirit of geranium or musk to perfume, put in three gold leaves, damp them with the syrup, and break them up with a fork or skewer. Now add a little colouring, so as to give a delicate pink colour, and bottle off for use. Liqueur d’Arg-ent. -Mix loz. each of the tinctures of clove, coriander, and lemon, with lgall. of proof spirit, then add foz. each of orange-flower water and rose-water, and pour in 2qts. of clarified syrup. Break in two or three silver leaves, colour a light blue, and bottle off for use. Liqueur ties Eveques.—Put ljlb. of finely-chopped orange- peel and 5oz. of ground cinnamon into bottles or jars with 5qts. of Medoc wine and 9fqts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, cork up the bottles securely, and let them remain for a month in a warm place, if possible, shaking the bottles daily. Turn the spirit into a bowl, and add to the bottles 3qts. of water; let this stand for a few days, shaking as before. Pour it off, pressing out as much as possible, add the liquor to the spirit, together with 4qts. of capillaire, mix well, filter, and bottle. A flannel bag should be used for filtering. Liqueur de Girofle.—This is prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques, with lib. of crushed cloves, 9fqts. of spirits, 7fqts. of water, 3fqts. of capillaire, and a little pink colouring added before filtering. Liqueur de Muscade. — Use lfoz. each of mace, orris-root, nutmeg, and cinnamon, all finely ground; loz. each of rosemary- leaves, orange- and lemon-peel, finely chopped, foz. each of bruised marjoram, fennel-seed, and aniseed, and 2oz. each of cardamom and camomile, and proceed in the same way as for Liqueur des Eveques, with 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7fqts. of water, and 3fqts. of capillaire. Liqueur de Sante.—Put fifty freshly-gathered young bay-leaves and loz. of red sage-leaves into a jar with 2oz. of juniper- berries, pour over 2qts. of white rum, and leave them to infuse for fourteen days; strain and filter, add loz. of essence of peppermint, and lgall. of clarified syrup (white sugar syrup), mix in sufficient saffron to colour, stir well, and bottle in three days’ time, when the sediment will have settled at the bottom. Masonic Liqueur.—Put into a jar loz. each of essence of barberry, distilled lavender-water and orange-water, also foz. of essence of syringa; pour over lgall. of spirit (60deg. over proof); when well mixed, add 2qts. of syrup and loz. of essence of cloves, also sufficient saffron to give it a bright colour. Bottle and use. Parfait Amour.—This is prepared the same as for Liqueur des Eveques, using lib. of lemon-peel, 3oz. of cinnamon, 2oz. of orange-flowers, loz. of rosemary-leaves, foz. of mace, Joz. each of cloves, saffron, and cardamom, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, 7qts. of water, 4qts. of capillaire, and a little rose colouring. Persicot.—This liqueur is prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques, with lib. of bitter almonds, 9fqts. of spirits of wine, and 7qts. of water, but without using capillaire. Railroad Liqueur.—Dissolve foz. each of the oils of absinthe and peppermint, and 10 drops of oil of roses, in 5galls. of spirits ; add lgall. of white syrup, and sufficient blue orchid to colour, and use as required. Rosolio.—Put 2foz. of finely-chopped rind of lemon into a jar with foz. of cinnamon, and foz. each of aniseed, cardamom,438 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cordials and Liqueurs—continued. angelica-root, and cloves (all ground or powdered); add 9|- pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, cork the jar securely, and keep in a warm place for a month, shaking it daily. Pour the spirit into a vessel, add to the contents in the jar . 31 pints of water, let it remain for a few days, giving the jar an occasional shake, press out all the liquid, add it to the spirit, together with 2qts. of capillaire and a little rose colour- ing, filter through a flannel bag, and bottle for use. Stomachic Liqueur.—Proceed as for Liqueur des Eveques, using- loz. of lemon-peel, lyoz. of orange-peel, yoz. of aniseed, 6 drachms each of cinnamon, camomile, sweet basil, orris- root, and galanga, foz. each of lavender-flowers and rosemary- leaves, 6 drachms each of vanilla, mace, nutmeg, and cardamom, 9j pints of spirits of wine, 3y pints of capillaire, and 7y pints of water. Usquebaugh.—Put 3oz. of cinnamon, foz. of lavender, yoz. each of aniseed, cloves, and nutmeg, together with joz. of cardamom, into a jar, pour in 9| pints of spirits of wine 60deg. over- proof, cork up the jar securely, put it in a warm place, and shake it frequently for a month. Pour off the spirit, add to the ingredients in the jar 61 pints of water, and let this stand for a few days; press out as much of the liquor as possible, mix it in with the spirit, add 2qts. of capillaire and a little yellow colouring, run the liquor through a flannel bag-, and bottle. Verde.—Take the thinly-pared rind of one and a half lemons, and the thinly-pared rind of two oranges, put these rinds into lqt. of brandy or rum, cork the bottle tight, and leave the peels to steep for twenty-four hours; then to 1 gill of the strained juice of the oranges and lemons (mixed) add lOoz. of sugar and 3 pints of water, stir this well together till the sugar is quite melted, add and stir in the peel and spirits, and 1 pint of cold milk. Bun it through a jelly-bag till quite clear, bottle, and cork it well. It will keep good for a year. A great number of other Cordials and Liqueurs will be found under their specific heads. CORIANDER.—The ripe fruit (see c. Fig. 515) of Conundrum sativum, dried, is much used by confectioners and cordial makers for the sake of its aromatic flavour. It is also an important ingredient in Eastern cookery, and is frequently powdered and put into curry. It derives its name, according to some authorities, from the Greek koris—a bug. The plant grows wild in some parts of Essex, and in the locality of Ipswich. The flowers (b) are white and grow in bunches, shaped like a flat umbrella, and the leaves (a) are not unlike uncurled parsley, growing at intervals on a fluted stem. The seeds are about the same size as white peppercorns, of a yellowish-brown colour. Coriander Cordial.—Put lib. of bruised Coriander-seeds and half the quantity of caraway-seeds into a bottle with 7 pints of proof spirit, and stir frequently for a fortnight; add 3 drops of oil of orange and lib. of sugar dissolved in about 2qts. of water. Bottle and use as desired. Essence of Coriander, or Coriander Flavouring-. -JFill a bottle with bruised Coriander-seeds, and pour proof spirit Coriander—continued. over them until the bottle will hold no more. Let this macerate for a month or six weeks, and then filter off the liquor, pressing the wet seed. Made the same way as the Tincture, but much stronger. Tincture of Coriander.—Put lib. of bruised Coriander-seeds into a jar with lgall. of over-proof spirit, and leave to infuse for three weeks; then filter, bottle, and cork up. CORING.—Some fruits with cores (from the Latin cor—a heart), such as pears, apples, quinces, &c., should be relieved of these inconveniences, as a fish should be rid of its bones. When the cooking process to which they are being subjected directs the fruit to be cut up quarterwise, the cores can be readily removed by means of an ordinary knife; but sometimes it may be desirable to core the fruit whole. This is accomplished by means ft Fig. 516. Corer. of a corer (see Fig. 516). This is a lin. diameter steel tube, with one end sharpened by bevelling the metal to give it a good cutting edge. The fruit is held conveniently in the left hand (see Fig. 517), and the corer forced through by a rotatory motion from the palm of the right hand. It is usual to remove the peel of fruit that is to be cut up before Coring; but when the fruit is to be used whole, the Coring should be finished before peeling. This prevents the fruit from breaking- while being cored. CORINTHIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. CORKS AND CORKING.—The importance to the butler or caterer, and, indeed, to all concerned in the preservation of liquors or other goods in bottles, of some knowledge of this subject is great. The preservation of the goods so much depends upon the quality of the trusted Cork, that it is advisable to be able to distinguish between good and bad Corks, and to understand from the first the best modes of applying them. Some variety of opinion appears to exist amongst chroniclers as to the date and occasion when Cork was first used to plug the mouths of vessels. As an article of commerce and special service, the bark of the Cork tree has been known for many centuries. It is mentioned by Pliny as cortex—bark, and some reference is made to its use for stopping the mouths of vessels by Cato and Horace; but it is doubtful if this was as an internal stopper ; more probably it was used as we might in these days lay a piece of wood over an opening. Old authorities give directions for closing wine vessels with pitch, clay, gypsum, or potter’s earth, or to fill up the upper part439 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensile, Sauces, <&£., referred to, see under their special heads. Corks and Corking—continued. of the vessel with oil or honey, in order to exclude the air. Beckmann informs us that pitch was used by the ancients for stopping the large wide-mouthed earthen vessels in which they kept their wines; wooden casks were then unknown, or at least were very scarce. Stoppers of Cork seem to have been first introduced after the invention of glass bottles, which occurred some- where about the fifteenth century. The first bottles were wide-mouthed vessels, hence the Corks or bungs were cut to fit loosely, and were made tight fitting by the insertion of some kind of coarse canvas or cotton-wool under the cork. As the mouths of the bottles assumed narrower dimensions, the system of fitting Corks tightly followed as a mere matter of adaptation, and thus towards the end of the seventeenth century Cork stoppers were used in the shops of German apothecaries. The term Corks is peculiarly British, all other countries where Corks are used having special names or definitions: thus, in France they are Bouchons (or mouth-pieces); in Germany, Korkstopfeln (Cork-stoppers); in Italy, Turacciole (or stoppers); and Spain, Tapons (or covers). The word Cork, or its native equivalent, being sometimes added to designate the material of which the stopper is made, as in the German Korkstopfeln. The material from which Corks are made is the bark of the Quercus Suber, or Cork oak, which grows abundantly in southern France, Italy, and Spain. The tree is stripped as it stands, and the bark generally grows again. That of the first stripping and younger trees yields the finest Cork, and is commercially known as “Velvet Cork”; older bark is usually full of holes, eaten through by insects, which have the good taste to leave the bark con- taining their self-made channels as soon as it is stripped off and laid out to dry. Although it is not always necessary to use the velvet Cork, it is as well to know Fig. 519. Cork-drivers. that it is the most elastic and air-tight. Coarser Cork may be used, and generally is, even for bottling wine ; but then it is advisable to soak the Cork in hot water Corks and Corking—continued. until it becomes soft and pliant even as the best velvet Cork, when it may be compressed in a squeezer (see Fig. 518), the better to fit the mouth of the bottle, and then driven home with a driver (see Fig. 519). After corking wines or other liquors that are to be kept, it is usual to seal the tops with wax, specially prepared, and described under Bottling, to which article reference is advised. CORKSCREWS. — These useful little weapons require no special notice beyond mentioning that they are made in so many various shapes and modes of working that they could not be exhaustively described in anything less than a volume exclusively devoted to the subject. It may be taken for granted that each and all have sufficient merit of a kind to warrant their existence. There are Corkscrews worked by a lever and compound lever; others by the reverse action of a system of screws, which not only forces the screw into the cork, but draws it and casts off the cork in one continued action ; some are fitted with winches, and some fixed to slanting stands or frames for drawing wines which must not be shaken. Their name is legion, and the choice must be left to the fancy of the purchaser. CORN.—See Indian Coen or Maize. CORNCAKES.—See Cobnflour Cakes. CORNCRAKES, or LANDRAILS (sometimes known as Corn-Birds). — These birds are migratory, making their appearance in the British Isles about the end of April or the beginning of May, and leaving for more southern latitudes at the end of September or beginning of October. They are to be found in the South of France, Spain, Southern Italy, Greece, Southern Russia, and the islands of the Mediterranean, leaving these places for the warmer regions of Africa on the approach of winter. In summer they are sometimes found in lands further north than Great Britain. They frequent the long grass of meadow-land near rivers, fields of green corn or clover, and beds of osiers, where they can be recognised by the harsh grating noise that they make during the night. Corncrakes are excellent for the table, and are mentioned by Dr. Thomas Muffet, who lived in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, as deserving to be placed next the partridge, their flesh being so sweet and tender. Drayton, in one of his songs, mentions it as “ The Rayle, that seldom comes but upon rich men’s spits,” in allusion to their scarcity. They are small birds, not usually weighing more than about 6oz., aiid are technically known as Crex Crex, or Crex Patensis. In France they are known as Roix des cailles, and are cooked as Quails. CORNED MEATS. — These are simply meats (generally beef) well salted before being cooked. They are usually salted with much coarser salt than that used at table, which is a fine powder, while that used for pickling meat is in coarse grains, or corns, hence the term “ Corned Meats.” Corning meat renders it unfit for roasting or broiling, it can only be boiled. The meat loses in weight in the process, but still it is a good way of preserving it for a longer time than would be possible if it were not salted, and it makes the coarser parts of the meat more tasty, especially when eaten cold. See Beef, Tongue, &c. CORNETS. — These useful little instruments are nothing more elaborate than a small sheet of paper screwed up into a conical shape, and used by confectioners for a variety of purposes. They may be of any size required, and should* be made of strong smooth-faced paper, such as cream-laid note. When firmly folded (see Fig. 520) a pin will keep them from unfolding. The point440 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornets—continued. of the Cornet is cut off to leave an opening as large as may be required. The Cornet is nearly filled with sugar icing, or other soft material, and the top carefully folded over, so that upon pressure the contents ooze through as Fig. 520. Cornet. required by the operator in an even string or quantity. This could not be effected in any other way in the case of a sticky or “ clinging ” material. For other important information on this subject, see Piping. CORNFLOUR.—Sometimes known as Corn-meal or Indian-meal. This is a fine Hour made by grinding the kernels of Indian-corn. Since its introduction into this country it has steadily gained favour amongst all classes until it has become a staple commodity here, due in a great measure to the excellent quality of the Cornflour introduced and the innumerable dishes to which it can be applied. Preparations of Indian-corn have reached us under various titles, such as Coralline, Hominy, Maizena, Oswego, Polenta, and others, each being of sufficient importance to be described under a special heading. Cornflour, or fine corn-meal as it is sometimes called, is prepared by rubbing Indian-corn or maize between stones until all the hard outside shell of the corn is removed and only the soft, floury kernel remains; this is then further ground into flour, or fine meal. Cornflour is frequently mixed or blended with other flours or ground starches; but that supplied by such a firm as Brown and Poison would probably be quite pure flour of the Indian- corn. The value of Cornflour as a food has been disputed, the impression prevailing that if continued it is injurious. Letheby writes something to that effect of the grain; but other chemists declare that it contains more fatty oil than anj other cereal, although somewhat poorer than wheat in albumenoid, or flesh-forming matter. Anyhow it is much consumed all over the world, and is very useful to the cook and confectioner, as the following receipts will testify. It has a sweet taste, somewhat insipid to those who are unaccustomed to it, but by others declared to be more delicious than any other meal. Cornflour Batter Cakes.—Put lib. of Cornflour in a basin with lib. of wheat-flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, Cornflour—continued. and 1 pinch of salt. Stir gradually into the above ingre- dients lqt. of milk or milk-and-water, then add 1 teacupful of melted lard. When well mixed and smooth, spread the mixture out on iron plates in thin cakes (see Fig. 521), and fry them over a slow fire ; turn when cooked on one side, and cook the other. These cakes are very nice when eaten hot. Cornflour Blanc-mange.—Boil 1 pint of milk with 3oz. of loaf sugar; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour in a cup with a little cold water, stir it in with the boiling milk, and boil it a few minutes. When off the fire, beat in 1 table-spoonful Fig. 522. Cornflour Blanc-mange. of butter, add salt to taste and any flavouring; wet the inside of a suitable mould with cold water and pour in the preparation. When cold, turn out and garnish with pre- served fruits (see Fig. 522). Cornflour Breakfast Cakes.—(1) Mix together lqt. of sifted Cornflour, 1 teacupful of wheat-flour, and 1 table- spoonful of salt; then stir in gradually lqt. of warm water, thus making a soft dough; put a cloth over the pan and leave it till morning. Next day, dissolve 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of warm milk-and-water, and with this mixture reduce the dough to a batter, stirring it very hard. Cover the batter, and place it in front of the fire to rise for fifteen minutes. Put a small piece of lard in a frying-pan, melt it, put in the batter in the shape of small crumpets, and fry them, turning with a knife when brown on one side. When cooked, put the cakes on a hot dish, and serve them. These cakes can be eaten with either dripping, butter, or treacle. (2) Put lqt. of Cornflour into a basin and stir in sufficient boiling water to moisten it, add two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to make a stiff batter. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of saleratus in a little hot water, mix it with the batter, and add a small quantity of salt. Butter some square baking-tins, fill them three-parts full with the batter, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, cut them into small squares, put on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. Cornflour Cakes.—(1) Mix in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of Cornflour, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, J breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, and 2 saltspoonfuls of salt. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in J teacupful of boiling water, and pour it into 3 teacupfuls of sour milk ; mix it with the dry ingredients, and add two eg’gs, well beaten. Butter some small cake-tins, pour the preparation in about 1 Jin. deep, and bake for twenty-five minutes in a quick oven. (2) Mix in a basin Jib. of Cornflour, Jib. of wheat-flour, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda; rub in Jib. of butter, and when smooth add Jib. of caster sugar and the beaten whites of eight eggs. Flavour to taste, and bake in buttered tins. (3) Rub 3oz. of butter in Jib. of wheat-flour and Jib. of Cornflour, and add loz. of baking-powder and sufficient milk to mix them. Put the paste in tins to about 2in. in depth, and bake. (4) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, boil it, add 2oz. of sugar, pour it into a basin over 12oz. of Corn- flour, and let it remain for from two to three hours. Sift 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder with lib. of wheat-flour. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream, work in three eggs, and add gradually the Cornflour ; make this into a batter, using more441 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. milk-and-water as may be required, dredge in the wheat-flour, and stir well with a wooden spoon to form a stiff paste. Have ready buttered the required number of tins, make them hot, pour in the mixture to about l^in. in depth, and bake in a quick oven. (5) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter in a basin, mix 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar and two eggs with it, and beat it well; then mix in 1 pint of corn-meal and a small quantity of salt. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, place it over the fire until it begins to boil, then stir in small quantities at the time of the mixture, stirring with a wooden spoon until all is used and well mixed, then take it off the fire. Thickly butter the interior of a shallow cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake the cake in a brisk oven. (6) Put in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of Cornflour, 4 teacup- ful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, 1 dessert-spoonful of baking-powder, 1 table- spoonful of butter warmed to melting, and one egg beaten in i pint of milk ; mix thoroughly, and spread it in the bottom of two cake-tins, previously buttered. Bake quickly. Cornflour Cheese Cakes. —Take the juice and rind of three lemons, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour, and 2 table- spoonfuls of butter. Boil the water, mix the Cornflour with a little cold water, and pour the boiling water on to it. Let it boil up once, and then turn it on the butter and sugar After it cools add the lemons and eggs. Make into an open tart or tartlets with puff paste. Cornflour Crackers.—Put 21b. of Cornflour into a basin and work in 4 table-spoonfuls of warmed fat or butter; mix in lib. of sugar, pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and add sufficient wheat-flour to make a stiff dough ; knead it well, and let it stand for two or three hours in a warm place. Take up small pieces of the dough about the size of a walnut, shape them like shells (see Fig. 523), brown them in boiling fat, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Cornflour Cup Cakes.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of wheat-flour and half that quantity of Cornflour into a basin, rub in 2oz. of lard, and when quite smooth mix in 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar, J table-spoonful of vinegar, a very small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and 1 teacupful of warm milk in which 1 salt- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Stir the ingredients until well mixed. Butter the insides of as many teacups as will be necessary, dredge them lightly with flour, and fill with the mixture. Bake them ; when cooked, leave until half cold, then turn them out of the cups and serve. Cornflour Dodgers. — (1) Scald 2 breakfast-cupfuls of fine white Cornflour with boiling water; add 1 teaspoonful of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, | teaspoonful of Cornflour—continued. salt, and 1 table-spoonful of milk ; leave it, when mixed, till cold, and add two eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. Grease some small tins and make them very hot, drop the batter (which should not be too thin) into them, and bake till brown and puffy in a very hot oven. See Fig. 524. (2) Take lib. of good meal made from white corn. Sift it, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and mix it then to a pretty stiff dough with cold water. Knead into long oval-shaped cakes and bake in -pans. The crust should be baked nice and brown. Cornflour Dumplings.—Finely chop 41b. of beef-suet, dredging it at the same time with flour; mix the suet with 3 pints of Cornflour, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir in gradually sufficient milk to make a stiff dough, and knead it well. Divide the dough into equal portions, flour the hands and roll the dough into dumplings ; flatten them with a rolling-pin, and beat on both sides to make them light and flaky. Wring some cloths out in hot water, flour them, and tie each dumpling loosely in one. Plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for two hours. When cooked, dip each dumpling in cold water, then remove the cloth, put on a hot dish, and serve either with meat, or as sweet dumplings with treacle, or sugar and butter. Cornflour Fritters.—Beat eig'ht eggs till very light, and mix them with lqt. of milk; stir in gradually 12 piled table- spoonfuls of yellow corn-meal and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and continue stirring till well mixed. Put lib. of fresh lard in a large deep frying-pan, or a flat stewpan, and when boiling, quickly drop the batter into it, a ladleful at a time. If the batter is too thin, more meal can be added; as the lard is reduced, put in some more, take out the fritters with a skimmer, drain them well, and put on a hot dish. Serve the fritters while very hot with wine and sugar, or molasses. Cornflour Gliocchi.—Put some Cornflour into a saucepan, mix it until smooth with hot water, and stir over the fire for about twenty minutes. Turn the Cornflour on to a paste-board, leave it until cold, then cut into diamond-shaped pieces about Jin. in thickness; spread half of these with butter, strew Fig. 525. Cornflour Gnocchi. grated cheese over, and place the other half on the top. Put them on a dish, and place in a brisk oven until the cheese has melted. Serve while very hot. If preferred sweet, treacle or sugar may be spread between them in place of the cheese. The tops are then spread with icing of different colours. See Fig. 525. Cornflour Griddle Cakes.—(1) Pour over t> table-spoonfuls of Cornflour 1J pints or rather more of boiling water, and let it steep all night. Next day beat into it by degrees 3 pints of milk, beating the Cornflour quite smooth as the milk is added; when the milk is mixed in add salt to taste, l|oz. of butter warmed till quite soft, three well-beaten eggs, and then beat in lightly and quickly enough self-raising flour to make a moderately thick batter. Bake the batter in cakes at once on a griddle over the fire. (2) Sift together lqt. of Cornflour, 2 table-spoonfuls of wheat- flour, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Melt 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in 1^ pints of milk over the fire, and as soon as it is melted stir in the flour gradually ; when all the flour has been stirred in, let the mixture cool. When cold, whisk four eggs to a froth, and beat them into the mixture, which should then be about the consistency of batter. Have ready on the fire a hot griddle, slightly buttered or greased with fat salted pork to prevent burning, and fry the cakes quickly. Serve hot, with butter and honey, or molasses.442 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. (3) To 3 pints of warm water add | gill of yeast, \ teaspoon- [ ful of dissolved ammonia, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; stir in sufficient Cornflour to make a batter, add 1 pint of flour, and beat the whole smooth ; cover it, and set it in a warm j place to rise. In ten or twelve hours’ time, add two well- beaten eggs, form it into cakes, and bake on a griddle to a light brown. Serve on a hot dish with butter and syrup. Cornflour Gruel.—(1) Blend 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted Corn- | flour with 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water till perfectly smooth, [ and then pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water, stirring it well in ; add a small quantity of salt, put it over the fire, and let it boil half-an-hour, stirring all the time, and | removing any scum that rises. This gruel may be sweetened with sugar and flavoured with white wine and grated nutmeg. (2) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of Cornflour and 1 saltspoonful of salt with cold water until of a smooth, thin paste, stir into it 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and cook five minutes, or until the desired consistency is obtained. Strain, add a little sugar if desired, and thin it by adding a little milk. If intended for a patient, a little lemon-juice improves the flavour; or ^in. stick of cinnamon or a little nutmeg may be boiled | with it to flavour. Cornflour Hasty Pudding1.—(1) Take lqt. of milk, and with a little of it blend 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour to a smooth paste. Throw 1 teaspoonful of salt into the remainder of the quart of milk, place it on the fire, and as soon as it boils pour it over the Cornflour, stirring it well. Put it into the saucepan and let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring it often enough to prevent burning. Take it from the fire and stir into it about ljoz. of butter. Pour into a deep dish and let it stand in a pan of hot water till sent to table, but do not cover it. Serve with either jam or sugar and cream. (2) Put over the fire in a saucepan 3 pints of water; when it boils throw in a little salt, and stir in gradually 3 pints of Cornflour and 2oz. of butter, and keep stirring till it is quite thick. Serve it hot, with cream, or milk and sugar, or treacle. (3) Mix together 6oz. of Cornflour and 2oz. of wheat-flour, and then stir both flours into lqt. of boiling water. Let it boil hard for half-an-hour, stirring it almost constantly. At the end of the half-hour, add 1 teaspoonful of salt and loz. of butter, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Serve it in a deep dish with either butter, sugar and grated nutmeg, or else cream and sugar. Cornflour Jelly.—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of Cornflour into a basin, mix in 1 table-spoonful of milk, and then add the yolks of three eggs. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk (less the table- spoonful) into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, add sugar to sweeten, and stir in quickly the egg and Cornflour mixture, and continue to stir until all is quite smooth. Pour the mixture into a mould, let it set, turn it out, and serve. This is a good jelly for an invalid, and may be flavoured with any essence. (2) Boil lqt. of water with 12oz. of sugar, and add to it the juice of one small lemon and about half the rind cut off thin and in small pieces. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour in i pint of boiling- water, stir it into the boiling syrup, and boil slowly for about ten minutes, so as to lose its milky appearance and become almost clear. Pour it into custard-cups or any kind of moulds, let it get firm, and serve each with 1 table- spoonful of sweetened cream whipped to a froth. Cornflour Loaf Cake.—Bub |lb. of butter into lib. of Corn- flour, and make into a thick batter with boiling milk. Beat two eggs and stir into the batter when cool. Dust a little flour over jib. of stoned raisins and ilb. of washed and dried currants, and stir them into the batter with fib. of moist sugar; put the mixture into a buttered cake-mould, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. Cornflour Lunn.—Put into a large basin and mix well together 1 breakfast-cupful of wheaten-flour, 1 teacupful of Cornflour, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and when thoroughly mixed add 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Melt over the fire or in the oven 2oz. of butter, and pour it into the middle of the mixed flours. Break three eg-gs into a small bowl and beat them up very light. Mix the flours and butter to a batter with f pint of new milk, then pour the eggs over it, and stir them in. Grease a pudding-dish, and pour the batter in, only filling it half full. Put it in a quick oven and bake for twenty minutes. Serve it Cornflour—continued. hot on a dish covered with a napkin. It may also be made without sugar. Cornflour Meringue.—Blend 1 table-spoonful of Cornflour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Pour on to it, stirring all the time, lqt. of boiling milk ; put it into a saucepan, let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and keep stirring to prevent its burning. Take it from the fire, and beat up the yolks of four eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar and a few drops of essence of lemon or vanilla ; stir this by degrees into the boiled Cornflour and milk, which will have cooled a little while the eggs and sugar were being beaten. Then butter a pudding'-dish, pour all into it, and bake for a-quarter-of- an-hour. Meantime, beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of jam or jelly added by degrees. Take the pudding from the oven at the end of a-quarter-of-an- hour, heap this stiff froth lightly on it all over, put it back in the oven, and let it brown very slightly. It may be served either cold or hot. If the Cornflour is flavoured with lemon- essence, use strawberry or some other sweet jam to beat up with the white of egg. If it is flavoured with vanilla, use currant jelly. Cornflour Musk.—(1) A cast-iron pot with feet is the best vessel to use, as being raised lin. from the stove the mush will be less likely to stick to the bottom and burn. Boil 2qts. of water and 1 table-spoonful of salt (having previously greased the inside of the pot with a little lard or dripping); then sprinkle in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Cornflour, beating1 at the same time with a spoon. Put on the lid, and let it simmer for three hours. When cold it can be cut into slices and fried. (2) Add 1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 breakfast-cupful of Corn- flour, and mix it quite smooth with a small quantity of cold water, then stir in gradually lqt. of boiling water. Pour the mush into a jug, which stand over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for two hours. When done it may be served either hot or cold, with sugar and cream. Cornflour Pastry Cream.—Put 1 pint of water or milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, and boil them. Add 2oz. of Cornflour mixed stiff with water, stir well, and boil again; add the yolks of five eggs and 2oz. of butter, and stir well over the fire until the mixture is quite thick, which will take about ten minutes. Let the mixture cool before adding a flavouring, and when it is quite cold it is ready for use. Cornflour Porridge. —Pour 2) pints of water into a saucepan, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and bring the liquor to the boil on a moderate fire. Add while boiling 1 pint of Cornflour, stir well and continually, and boil for quite half-an-hour. Turn it out into cups or other vessels, and serve with cold milk separately. The Cornflour may be boiled in milk instead of water, but milk must always be served with it. Cornflour Pudding (Baked).—(1) Put Agall. of milk into a saucepan with 6oz. of sugar, boil them, and beat in 7oz. of . Cornflour, adding a small quantity at a time. Cook slowly over the fire for about thirty minutes, then add 4oz. of butter and the yolks of eight eggs or five whole eggs. Turn the preparation into a dish or mould, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn it out, pour sweet sauce over or round, and serve. (2) Mix 2oz. of Cornflour in ^ teacupful of milk, add to it 3 pints of boiling milk, sweeten with caster sugar, and flavour with vanilla or any other flavouring. Pour the mixture into an enamelled saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick; remove it from the fire, and beat in one egg; butter a pie- dish, turn the pudding in, put a little butter on the top, and bake in a slow oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. This makes a nice light pudding for invalids. (3) Mix 1 teacupful of Cornflour in lqt. of milk, put it over the fire, and keep stirring till it thickens. Sweeten to taste either with sugar or treacle, grate a little nutmeg into it, and stir in two well-beaten eggs and loz. of butter. Pour the pudding into a pudding-dish, and bake in a Dutch-oven in front of the fire for half-an-hour. (4) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan, keeping back enough to mix the Cornflour with, and let it get hot. Mix smoothly 4 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour with the milk reserved for the purpose and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when the milk in the saucepan is almost boiling, pour into it the blended Cornflour, milk, and sugar ; stir till it boils, and then at once take the443 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. pan from the fire. Beat up two eggs, and when the Cornflour has cooled a little stir them well into it. Pour it now into a well-buttered pudding-dish and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. (5) Put 3 pints of milk into a saucepan on the stove, and while it is getting hot, blend 6 table-spoonfuls of Corn- flour with a little cold milk. Just before the milk boils crush three bay-leaves in the hands and throw them into it, then stir in the blended Cornflour. Keep stirring till it boils, and let it boil for five minutes, still stirring, or it may burn. Move the saucepan a little away from the fire so that it may cool slightly. Beat together three eggs, 3oz. of sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Pick the bay-leaves out of the boiled Cornflour, and mix in the beaten eggs and sugar, then pour it into a pudding-dish and bake for ten minutes in a moderately hot oven. Serve hot. (6) Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful each of yellow corn- meal and molasses, and pour over them lqt. of boiling milk, mixing it in gradually; then add 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of ground cinnamon or ginger, and 1 piled table-spoonful of butter, and let these ingredients cool. When they are quite cold, put them into an earthen pudding-dish, set it in a moderate oven, pour upon the top 1 pint of cold milk, but do not stir the milk into the pudding, and bake for three hours, taking care that the pudding does not burn. Serve either hot or cold. (7) Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, and when it comes to the boil, shake and stir in 5 pint of Cornflour, continue stirring till it boils, and let it boil thres minutes. Take it from the fire, and let it cool; then mix in an egg beaten up with jib. of sugar, f saltspoonful of salt, and grated nut- meg to taste. Put it into a buttered pudding-dish and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Serve cream with it. (8) Boil in a saucepan lqt. of milk; add ^lb. of Cornflour, and with a wire whisk stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire, let it cool, and add 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute; break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, with a ladle fill them with the Corn- flour, place them in a tin pan, filling it to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, put it in the oven, and bake for thirty-five minutes. Bemove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them. Turn them on to a hot dish and serve with the following sauce : Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a sauce- pan on the stove; break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of wheat-flour, |oz. of Cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes ; return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly until it comes to the boil; remove it, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. (9) Boiled.—Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when very hot stir into it 3 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour soaked in a little cold milk. Let it boil for thirty minutes, stirring it constantly, then mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt and l|oz. of butter, and let it boil five minutes longer ; then stir into it two eggs beaten up with 3 table-spoonfuls of milk. When the eggs are added, draw the pan to the side of the fire and cook slowly, stirring constantly for ten minutes. Pour the pudding into a deep dish. Serve cream and sugar with it. (10) Skin and chop very fine lib. of beef-suet; warm 1 pint of milk and lib. of molasses and mix them together; beat four eggs very light and stir them into the warmed milk and molasses, 1 table-spoonful at a time, alternately with small quantities of chopped suet and Cornflour. Be sparing with the latter, only adding sufficient to make a batter of the mixture. When all the suet and eggs are used up, add 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and a little grated lemon-peel. When the pudding is thoroughly well mixed, dip a cloth in boiling water, squeeze the water from it and dredge with flour, put the pudding into it, and tie up, leaving it room to swell. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours without letting the boiling cease for an instant. Serve hot with wine sauce. Cornflour—continued. (11) Boil 1 pint of water with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in it; sprinkle in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Corn- flour, and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-chopped suet, one beaten egg, the grated rind of one lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. Damp a pudding- cloth, flour it, place it in a bowl, and pour in the batter ; tie the cloth loosely so as to leave room to swell, which it should do to nearly double its original bulk, and boil for five hours. Serve with sweet wine sauce. (12) Indian.—Put lib. of Cornflour into a basin, pour over 2 pints of water, and let it soak in a warm place for twelve Hours. Pass the liquor through a coarse cloth into a sauce- pan, add lib. of sugar, and boil, stirring continually ; when it begins to thicken, add 6oz. of lard or butter, warmed, with a few white cardamoms and sticks of cinnamon, and continue to cook until the mixture is quite thick. Put it into a well- buttered mould or basin, let it get cold, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (13) Put lib. of lard or butter into a saucepan, melt it, add lib. of browned Cornflour and a few white cardamoms and sticks of cinnamon, stir well until the Cornflour com- mences to colour, add lib. each of blanched almonds and stoned raisins, also a syrup made with lib. of sugar to 1 pint of water, and continue to cook and stir until the prepara- tion thickens. Pour it into well-buttered moulds, let them get cold, turn them out, and serve. Cornflour Pudding made with Cowslip Wine. — Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour into a basin with 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and beat in the yolks of two eggs. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cowslip wine into a saucepan on the fire, heat it without boiling, stir in the Cornflour, sweeten to taste, and stir continually until the preparation is quite thick. Pour it into a damped mould, let it set, turn it out, and serve. This is an excellent dish for an invalid. Cornflour Puffs.—(1) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan, and when it boils stir in gradually 8 piled table-spoonfuls of Corn- flour, 4 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a grated nutmeg. Stir vigorously over the fire and let it boil for fifteen minutes, take it off, and set it away to cool. Beat eight eggs to a light froth, and when the batter is cold stir them in gradually. Butter some cups, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake well in a moderate oven. Put a lump of butter in a sauce- pan with the strained juice of one lemon, about 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till creamy. When cooked, turn the puffs on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with whole-fruit jam, and serve (see Pig. 526). (2) Sift 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar into 2oz. of wheat- flour, mix with it Jib. of Cornflour, and sprinkle in a little444 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornflour—continued. salt; then stir into it lqt. of boiling milk, put it over the fire, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring hard all the time. Take it from the fire, pour it into a basin, and work loz. of butter well in, beating it for quite three minutes ; then let it cool. Beat up four eggs with 6oz. of sugar, and when the batter is cold beat them well in, and stir in 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon mixed; lastly, stir in \ tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in hot water. Pour the batter immediately into greased muffin-rings, and bake in a hot oven. See Fig. 527. Cornflour Ramakins.—Put the required quantity of Cornflour into a saucepan with a little milk, and parboil it; add a little each of grated Parmesan cheese, butter, grated nutmeg, pepper, and sugar, and mix well. Remove the pan from the fire, take up the paste with a dessert-spoon, put it carefully on a slab, place a piece of cheese in the centre of each, cover over with a little of the Cornflour paste, and let them get cold. Trim them round, dip them into well-beaten yolk of egg, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. When done, take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Cornflour Shape.—Put into a saucepan nearly 1 pint of milk, and let it get hot gradually. With the remainder of the pint of milk blend smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of Cornflour with 1 table- spoonful of sugar. When the milk in the saucepan is very hot, pour into it the blended Cornflour, milk, and sugar; let it boil for ten minutes, continually stirring. Wet the inside of a shape with cold water, and pour the Cornflour into it. When quite cold, turn it out on to a glass dish, put some jam or custard round, and serve. Cornflour Slappers.—Put in a basin 1 pint of Cornflour, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, and 1 teaspoon- ful of butter. Mix it with sufficient boiling milk to wet the flour; let it cool, then add two eggs well beaten in cold milk, and mix it to a thin batter; bake in cakes on a hot griddle. Cornflour Spider Cake.—Put in a basin If teacupfuls of Cornflour, 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, f teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; beat one egg in 1 teacupful of new milk and | 1 teacupful of sour milk, and mix these with the dry ingre- dients. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter in a hot cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and pour 1 teacupful of new milk over the top, but do not stir it; put the tin in a hot oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Cornflour Sponge Cakes.—(1) Large.—Mix together 1 break- fast-cupful of wheat-flour, 1 teacupful of Cornflour, i tea- spoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one egg; spread the mixture in a shallow baking-pan, and bake. (2) Small.—Take |lb. of Cornflour, three-quarters of that quantity of sugar, Jib. of butter beaten to a cream, and three well-beaten eggs. Mix with the dry Cornflour 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, then beat all well together with the butter and eggs. Bake in small cake-tins in a slow oven. Fig. 528. Cornflour Timbale. Cornflour-—continued. then move to the side, put in a lump of fresh butter, about 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 teacupful of thick brown gravy, and a very small quantity of chopped garlic ; boil for ten minutes longer, stirring all the time. Butter a square timbale-mould, pour the mixture into it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil for an hour. Turn the timbale on to a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy round, and serve. This may be garnished with chicken or veal quenelles (see Fig. 528). Cornflour Waffles.—Put into an earthen bowl 1\ breakfast- cupfuls of Cornflour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 dessert-spoonful each of lard and butter, and pour in 1 pint of boiling milk. Beat this mixture smooth, let it cool.until lukewarm, then add two eggs well beaten, and bake the waffles at once in a hot buttered waffle-iron. Maryland Cornflour Cakes.—Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, 1 breakfast-cupful of sifted white Cornflour, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; when the batter is cool, add one egg, the yolk and white beaten separately. Butter some warm cups, pour in the mixture, and bake about half-an-hour in a moderately hot oven. Port Royal Cornflour Cakes.—Mix together lib. of fine Cornflour and |lb. of wheat-flour; shake in 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, mix in gradually and smoothly 2qts. of milk, then add six eggs beaten very light. Bake on a griddle, and serve hot. Spiced Cornflour Pudding.— Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of milk with 3 dessert-spoonfuls of Cornflour. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk (less the 2 table-spoonfuls) into a saucepan on the fire, add a few cloves, coriander-seeds, or cinnamon tied up in a muslin bag, and sufficient sugar to sweeten; boil up once, remove the bag, put in the Cornflour, and stir well on the side of the fire until the preparation is quite thick. Beat in 1 gill of port wine, pour the whole into a damped mould, let it get firm, turn it out when cold, and serve as required. CORNISH PATTIES.—See Patties. CORN-SALAD.—This is the name given to an annual herb (Valerianella olitoria) sometimes used in salad, and known also as Lamb’s Lettuce (see Pig-. 529). It has a slightly bitter taste, and although it may be used by it- self, it is better as an addition to lettuce salads. On the Conti- nent it is known as doucette. Salad of Corn-Salad.—Pare oft the outer stale leaves and the roots from lqt. of Corn-Salad, wash in several waters, drain in a cloth, and arrange in a salad- bowl. Season with salt and pepper diluted in 1 salad-spoonful of vine- gar and lj salad-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Mix well when about to serve, but not before. Salad of Corn-Salad with Beetroots.—Arrange 1 pint of Corn-Salad and three medium-sized boiled beetroots cut in slices in a salad-bowl, and season the same as for Salad of Corn-Salad. Salad of Corn-Salad with Hard-boiled Eggs.—The same as for Salad of Corn-Salad, but when about to serve garnish with two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. CORNUCOPIAS.—Vessels of this shape are great favourites with artistic confectioners, as indicating hospi- Fig. 529. Corn-Salad. Fig. 530. Cornucopia Moulds. Cornflour Timbale.—Make a smooth batter with Cornflour and boiling- water, stir it over the fire, and boil for ten minutes ; tality as well as abundance. The term is derived from two Latin words signifying “ horn ” and “ plenty.” InTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 445 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cornucopias—continued. heathen mythology Ceres, the goddess of agriculture, is generally represented holding a “horn of plenty” filled to overflowing with corn and fruit. To make these of paste or nougat, special moulds are required (see Figs. 530 and 531), which can he obtained of most manufacturers of confectioners’ utensils. Fruit stands made in glass and silver for holding fruits (see Fig. 532) as if pouring from Cornucopias are not un- common. For instructions in this kind of work reference should he made to Gum-paste. Cornucopia Biscuits.—Put in a basin ilb. of caster sugar, two eggs, and | saltspoonful of salt; work these together with a spoon for ten minutes, stir in gradually 2oz. of flour, add 4 dessert-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and work the paste ten minutes longer. Butter a baking-sheet, drop the paste on in small round drops with a spoon, put them at once into the oven before they spread too much, let the heat be moderate, and keep them in it for six minutes; take them out, detach the biscuits, and twist them, one at a time, upon a pointed wooden tool that is used for that purpose to give them a Cornucopia or sugar-loaf shape. Put them away in a dry place, and when ready to serve fill them with whipped cream and strawberries, and ornament the outsides with icing. Cornucopia of Glacees Fruits.—Make some nougat-paste, and mix in 12oz. of almonds cut in fillets and 6oz. of caster sugar ; oil a Cornucopia-mould and line it with the nougat-paste; when it is firm, remove the mould, and put the Cornucopia on a Cornucopias—continued. dish with the pointed end turned up. It must be supported underneath with a stem made of nougat-paste. Ornament the opening of the Cornucopia with leaves formed out of almond-paste or gum-paste ; arrange in the hollow pre- -tOS si Fig. 533. Cornucopia of Glacees Fruits. served and fresh fruits glacees with syrup boiled to the crack (see Sugar-boiling). When grouping the fruits, cut out some imitation leaves in candied angelica ; do not stick them on with gum or sugar, as they would be difficult to remove when serving. See Fig. 533. CORNWALL PUDDING.—See Puddings. CORSTORPHINE CREAM.-A preparation of cream named after a village and hill near Edinburgh, where it is commonly made. See Cream. COSAQUES .—A French term applied to what are more familiarly known as crackers. The original Christ- mas crackers, the pulling of which has given so much amusement to adults and children alike, were at one time charged with sweets and mottoes, and known as cracker bonbons ; but the march of civilisation has led to the discarding of sweets and pretty speeches, often amusingly inappropriate, in favour of novelty in dress and masquerading. The modern cracker-maker has provided for this by substituting fancy costumes made of tissue-paper for the bonbons, the fanciful name of Cosaques having been given to those of foreign manu- facture. British makers have instituted “ Somebody’s Luggage ” and other quaint titles, all of which are in great demand, and supply employment to many at a season when em- ployment is most needed. See Crackers. COSTARD.—The name of a famous cooking apple, so called from the rib-like projections of its sides. The term costard-monger, corrupted to coster-monger, ori- ginated from this. See Apples. COSTMARY.-This plant (Tar .acetum Balsamita) has been cultivated in British gardens ever since its in- troduction in the sixteenth century. It is not so frequently met with as formerly, other herbs, such as tansy, having gradually supplanted it, in spite of its very marked flavour. In France it is mostly used in salads, but in this country it was at one time largely used to flavour ale, and thus assumed the name of Alecost. Modern butlers add a small quantity of it to negus, when they can get it. COTELETTES. — Fr. for cutlets, our term being derived therefrom. Literally “little ribs.” COTTAGE PUDDING.—See Puddings. COTTAGE SOUP.—See Soups. COULIBIAC.—There are various methods given of spelling this Russian word; sometimes it is also written Culibiac, and sometimes, so a Russian chef informs us, Koljbiack. To the latter the preference might be givenTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 446 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Coulibiac—continued. if it were not tliat the dish, a kind of flat pie, sometimes oblong, nearly square, or round, was introduced into this country spelled as given in the heading. The best paste for this, a sort of brioche, is made as follows: Put loz. of yeast into a basin with 1 wineglassful of warm milk and dilute it; strain into another basin and mix in sufficient flour to make a soft paste ; cover over with a cloth and set it to rise in a warm place. When sufficiently risen, add gradually fib. of sifted flour, Jib. of butter slightly melted, six eggs, and a little’milk. Work the paste so as to gave it a little consistence, and let it rise again before using. Puff paste is sometimes used instead of the above. Out of a vast number of receipts given for the pre- paration of Coulibiac the following have been selected, the variation of ingredients depending more upon cir- cumstances than taste: (1) Wrap about lib. of Coulibiac paste in a cloth, put it in a warm place, and let it remain for about fifteen hours. No sugar should be used with this paste. Turn it out on to a board, roll it out into a square about jin. in thickness, and cut it in halves. Put one-half on a well-buttered baking- sheet, cover it over first with a layer of well-boiled rice, then finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, and lastly an eel cut up into small pieces. Dredge over a little ground spice, chopped herbs, and salt and pepper, cover over with the remaining half of the paste, fastening the edges together, form it into the shapie of a ball as nearly as possible, put it into a moderate oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve hot on a dish. (2) Put two cabbages well washed, cleaned, and chopped very fine into a saucepan of water, and add Jib. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cut two large onions into small pieces and fry but not to brown them, and put them also into the saucepan with the cabbage. Place the saucepan on the fire, and when the cabbages are well done and quite tender put them out on a dish and let them get cold ; then mix in six eggs boiled hard and chopped very fine. Next take 8oz. of Coulibiac paste and roll half of it out on to a baking-sheet, making it quite square. Spread over this the mixture in a thick layer, cover over with the remainder of the paste, and secure the edges by pressing them well together; brush the top over with a little eg’g, mark it with a knife into small squares, and bake in a good hot oven. When done, cut it into the squares previously marked, and serve as hot as possible. (3) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs into a basin with a veal-kidney cut into thin slices, mix well, and season to taste. Cut into halves two boiled calf’s brains, dust them over with salt and pepper, and sprinkle over with more cooked fine herbs. Have ready a rolled-out flat of Coulibiac paste, in the centre put a layer of boiled rice, having the grains separate and dry, cover this with a layer of chopped hard-boiled eggs mixed up with minced parsley, cover over again with the brains and kidney, and lastly with more rice. The total quantity required of the latter will be about lOoz. Fold over the edges of the paste to entirely close it, turn it over on to a baking-sheet, lifting- with a cloth, let it remain in a warm place for about twenty minutes, brush over the surface with melted butter, sprinkle it liberally with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Take it out, put it on a dish, and serve with Madeira sauce in a sauceboat. See Fig. 534. Coulibiac—continued. (4) Fry in a little butter two shallots, onions, and two mushrooms; when cooked, chop them. Slice a calf’s kidney, put it in a basin with some of the cooked herbs, and some salt and pepper. Boil two calf’s brains, cut them in halves and again into slices, put them in a dish with the remainder of the cooked herbs, and season with a little salt and pepper. Flour a cloth and roll some Coulibiac paste out on it in an oblong shape ; put in the centre a layer of rice that has been boiled and left till cold, and put over the rice a layer of chopped hard-boiled eggs and chopped parsley. Put the kidney and the brains over the eggs, and cover them with cold boiled rice ; gather the edges of the paste up all round, bring them to the top, and press them together, first damp- ing them with a little water. Slip the pie carefully on to a baking-sheet, and keep it in a warm temperature for twenty minutes. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then cover it well with breadcrumbs, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. In the mean- time prepare some Madeira sauce. When cooked, put the pie on to a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. (5) Cut off the fillets from seven or eight small trout and about two dozen small perch, put them in a basin with two or three dozen crayfish tails, and season to taste. Place the basin in a cool place, or in ice, and let it remain until wanted. In the meantime prepare some quenelle forcemeat, using a pound of the flesh of pike, soudac, or whiting, rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in 4 table- spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Put lOoz. of well-washed rice into a saucepan with a good supply of water, boil it until done, taking care to have the grains quite whole, drain off the water, add 5oz. of butter to the rice, season to taste, cover over the pan securely, and put it in the oven or on the side of the fire for about ten minutes. Bemove it and let the rice cool. Put a napkin on a board, and flour it well; over this put a flat of Coulibiac paste, longer than it is wide, cover over the centre with a layer of the quenelle forcemeat, over this the rice, over this again arrange the fillets of fish, with a layer of cooked fine herbs and crayfish tails on top, and moistening with a little cold fish sauce. Put over the remainder of the forcemeat, raise the paste over the preparation, fastening the edges securely together, and lifting up the cloth turn the paste over on to a baking- sheet ; set it to rise in a warm place for about twenty' minutes, brush it over with butter, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for fully an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve with a sauce- boatful of brown sauce reduced with white wine. Turbot, salmon, or trout may be substituted for the other fish. COUNTESS SOUP.—See Soups. COUNTRY CAPTAIN.—A fanciful name given to a dish which will he found described under Fowl (Chicken), Kid, and Teal. It is, correctly speaking, a dry curry cooked in a frying-pan, of which “ Country Captains” of crafts sailing to and from Calcutta were supposed to be exceedingly fond. COUQUES. —The correct term for these little pasty- cakes should he Couques-baques, as the name is evidently derived from the German Kucken-gebacken, and they are known by the dual name in Flanders and Lille. They are described as a kind of pancake made of buckwheat-flour and butter; but this would be amongst the lower orders only, a much more refined Couque being prepared accord- ing to the following receipt, contributed by a foreign cook of considerable standing: Put J pint of cream in a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the thinly-pared yellow rind of one lemon, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and stir them in quickly with the boiling cream. Remove from the fire, taking care it does not boil after the eggs are added, strain through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and leave it until cool. Dissolve Joz. of yeast in a little warm water, then mix it into Jib. of flour, adding more water if required to mould it into a light dough. Cover it and place in a warm place to rise. Put ljlb. of flour into a basin, and rub into it 4oz. of butter ; when quite smooth, pour in the cream mixture and knead it well. Put theTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 447 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, seej/^frer their special heads. Couques—continued. sponge, when it has well risen, into the dough, and knead them both together. Cover the dough and keep it in a warm tempe- rature for about two hours. At the end of that time cut the paste into small pieces about the size of an egg, roll them to a round shape, lay them on a baking-tin, and leave for half-an-hour to rise. Brush the balls over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten egg, and put them in a brisk oven. When lightly browned, open each ball a little and scoop out a small portion of the inside ; put a small piece of butter in the hollow and dust in a little salt. Arrange the balls in a pile on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve them immediately, for if not very hot they will not be so nice. COURT BOUILLON.—The only translation for this word is “ short broth,” as we say small beer; but as it is described by Jules Goufte, it is a highly-seasoned stock, used to boil fresh-water fish, thereby redeeming something of their general tastelessness. If made well it will keep for some time if boiled up every few days, so that it may be prepared in any quantity according to requirements, and should be the chief stock at a riverside watering-place, where guests like to taste the fish caught by themselves or their friends. When boiling up for keeping, add a little water each time. A useful quantity may be made as follows: (1) Slice up a large carrot and a full-sized onion, and put these into a 4qt. saucepan together with a bunch of well-washed parsley, a sprig or two of thyme, 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and a pat of butter. The addition of two or three bay-leaves or a blade of mace will increase the savouriness of the fish boiled in this stock. The butter should be sufficient when melted to moisten the bottom of the saucepan. Stir this mixture for a few minutes over the fire before adding any liquor, then pour over gently about 2qts. of water, and throw in after it 1 breakfast-cupful of white-wine vinegar; after this has boiled up, let it simmer on the side for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain into a basin, and set it aside for use. Wine is frequently added to this during the process of cooking. (2) Another Court Bouillon, called a la Nantaise, is frequently used in Continental kitchens for boiling almost any kind of fish. It is made by adding a free supply of pepper and salt to a liquor of half milk and half water. Mace and herbs are also occasionally added. (3) Pour into a fish-kettle sufficient white wine to nearly fill it, add a small quantity of brandy and sherry, and a little each of turnips, carrots, parsnips, onions, and celery, all cut in pieces, a head of garlic, a few cloves and laurel- leaves, and thyme, chervil, parsley, salt, and pepper to taste. Set the kettle over a sharp fire, add a large lump of butter or lard, and boil quickly to reduce the liquor to a third of its original bulk. Set the liquor alight if it will burn while boiling, as this greatly improves the flavour. Should the Court Bouillon be intended for fast-days, olive oil must be used instead of the lard or butter. The white wine may be omitted and vinegar and water substituted, and some of the other ingredients may also be left out, if the Court Bouillon is not required so rich. (4) Put a lump of butter well kneaded with flour into a saucepan or fish-kettle, warm it, and pour over 1 wineglassful of boiling vinegar; then add, according to the fish to be boiled in it, sufficient white wine to cover it, as well as two slices of lemon, without rind or pips, two laurel- leaves, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Water may be substituted for the wine if a cheap Court Bouillon is required. (5) Pour lqt. of white wine into a fish-kettle with half that quantity of water, a bunch each of parsley and thyme, a little basil, two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, and a few small onions, all tied in a muslin bag, and a few slices of carrots and onions. Put the fish to be cooked in this, and after it is done the Court Bouillon may be put on one side for after use. (6) Cut up one good-sized, peeled, and well-washed carrot, with an onion, and half a bunch of parsley-roots, also cut up; brown them in a wineglassful of white or red wine, according to the fish ; add to it any well-washed pieces of fish-heads and Court Bouillon —continued. 1 pint of water. Season with .1 pinch each of salt and pepper. Boil well for five minutes, let it cool, strain through a napkin or a sieve into a jar, and store away for use as required. (7) Pry an onion, two or three sprigs of parsley, and a stalk of celery, finely chopped, in butter ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, eight or nine peppercorns, two bay-leaves, a few cloves, 1 pint of vinegar, and 2qts. of boiling water. Boil for twenty minutes, strain, and put it by till wanted for use. COUTEAU JULIENNE. —A French-made knife used especially for cutting vegetables into slireds for Julienne soup. There are several kinds of knives used for the same purpose, almost every cook having a special fancy to his own. For general purposes an ordinary cook’s knife answers well in skilful and careful hands. COVERS.—Irrespective of dish and other covers, there is a meaning to this word which gives it some importance in table-service. It is described in Webster’s Dictionary as “ the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal,” and involves therefore a variety of subjects that will be better treated under the general heading of Table-service. COW-HEELS.—In Scotland these are more generally known as ox-feet; but as it is difficult or impossible to judge whether the feet or heels belonged to the male or female species, and both are precisely similar so far as culinary purposes are concerned, the subject is treated generally under this head, excepting, of course, those known as Calf’s feet. There are many ways of prepar- ing Cow-heels, for the table, and as they are generally sold already parboiled, or blanched, it will be taken for granted throughout the following receipts that, unless specially mentioned, the feet have been previously cooked. If the feet are quite raw, they will require some hours’ steady boiling, and a capital stock will result. As a light and digestible food, Cow-lieels, well cooked, are strongly re- commended, and for preparing dishes for invalids they are invaluable. The feet of the neat, or young cow, require precisely the same treatment. Cow-heel Fritters.—(1) Cut some boiled Cow-heels in thick slices, dip them in beaten egg, roll in breadcrumbs, and fry till light brown in boiling fat. Fry some slices of onions, put them in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the pieces of heel round, and serve ; or they may be garnished with fried parsley. (2) Cut up some boiled Cow-heels in convenient pieces, and dip them in frying batter ; heat some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling drop the pieces of feet in and fry them brown. Put them when done on a hot dish, and serve. These make a tasty breakfast relish. Cow-heel Jelly. — Get an unskinned Cow-heel, cut the foot through the joints, chop the long bone, and remove the fat; wash it well, put it in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil for ten minutes. Strain off the water and wash it again. Put it in an enamelled saucepan, cover it with cold water, and stew gently for six hours, skimming it continually. When done, strain the stock into a basin, let it get cold, and skim off the fat. In using the jelly be careful not to mix the sediment with it. Cow-heel Soup.—Cut two Cow-heels and lib. of salt pork into small pieces, put them in a stone jar with 5 pints of clear broth, the juice and chopped rind of one lemon, and a season- ing to taste of chopped herbs and parsley. Cover the jar, stand it in a moderate oven, and leave it for some hours until the goodness is well drawn out of the meat. Afterwards strain the soup into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 pint of rich gravy, ^ pint of white wine, six hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, and twelve small forcemeat balls ; season to taste with salt, black pepper, and cayenne. Boil up the soup, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Grilled Cow-heel.—Remove all the bones from a blanched Cow-heel, cut the flesh into rather small pieces, egg and bread- crumb them, and grill till they are light brown, then serve.448 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cow-heels—continued. Pickled Cow-heels.—Directly the cow has been killed, cut off the feet, throw them into cold water, and let them soak during the night. In the morning, drain and put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil them till the hair and hoof can be easily removed with a knife. More boiling water should be poured in as the other boils away, so as to keep the feet well covered. Make some brine, strong, but not strong enough to float an egg, and it should not be boiled. When the feet are stripped, put them in the brine at once, and let them remain all night; in the morning, pour the brine away, and cover them with a fresh pickle containing a small quantity of vinegar. Leave them in this brine for two or three days ; they will then be ready for use. Stewed Cow-heel.—Put a nicely-cleaned Cow-heel in a saucepan with four onions, one bay-leaf, two or three cloves, a little salt and pepper, and stew it gently until done; when it is done take off all the meat from the bones, cut it into small pieces, egg and breadcrumb them with highly-seasoned bread- crumbs, and fry them a light brown in butter. Serve the heel with a puree of tomatoes or mushrooms. COWSLIPS.—As a British plant this spring primula (Primula veris) requires but very little description; it can be gathered in April and May. It is not, however, so generally understood that it has any culinary value excepting for the manufacture of the old-fashioned wine. In America there is a species of marsh marigold known by this name, but it more nearly resembles a buttercup in shape and flower. The leaves are sometimes used as herbs for the pot. Cowslips and Cream. —Half fill a small basin with petals of fresh-gathered Cowslip-flowers, and pour over them a thick cream which has been flavoured with sugar and orange-flower water. When well mixed, this is very nice spread on bread or cake. Cowslip Cup.—Put the thin rind of half a lemon into a basin or bowl, strain in the juice, and mix in 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar; then add 1 table-spoonful of brandy, next lqt. of Cow- slip wine, and let it stand for an hour or so. Strain it into another bowl, add 1 pint of broken ice, and a few minutes before serving pour in a bottle of soda water. Cowslip Mead.—This may be called an imitation mead, as honey and not the comb is used in preparing it. Dissolve 51b. of honey in 5galls. of water, and concentrate by boiling until nearly 7i per cent, has evaporated. Skim well, and pour a little of the boiling liquid over five lemons cut in slices. Pour the remainder of the liquid into a tub over 2| pecks of Cowslips and let it remain for at least twelve hours. Now mix the two liquors together, and stir in a little fresh yeast and a small quantity of sweetbriar. Stir frequently for three or four days, strain it, pour it into a clean cask, let it stand for six months, bottle, and use as required. Cowslip Pudding.—Procure J peck of Cowslips, cut off the flowers, put them in a mortar with 6oz. of Naples biscuits, and pound well. Put them in a stewpan with 1 pint of cream and ^ pint of milk, and stir over the fire. Boil them for five minutes. Beat four eggs well with J teacupful of cream and a few drops of rose-water, then stir them in with the . above mixture, moving the stewpan to the side of the fire; sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake until set. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the top, and serve. Cowslip Syrup.—Put Jib. of fresh Cowslip flowers into 1 pint of boiling water and let them infuse for a day; then take them out, strain, add 8oz. of caster- sugar to the liquor, and boil it gently until it is about the consistence of thick syrup. A pleasant mild flavouring. Cowslip Vinegar.—Put lqt. of Cowslip pips into a jar with 3 pints of white-wine vinegar, cork and seal the jar, and let it remain for ten days. Strain, bottle, and cork, and it is ready for use. An excellent addition to the flavour may be obtained by putting in a few sweetbriar-tops, say about three to 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the liquor. Cowslip Wine.—(1) Put 1 bushel of Cowslip pips into a tub with twelve lemons very thinly sliced and a handful or so of the tops of sweetbriar. In the meantime boil 101b. of -glucose For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cowslips—continued. in 6galls. of water, stir and skim it well, letting it boil for fully thirty minutes, then pour it while boiling into the tub over the Cowslip pips ; let it cool, add 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet white yeast to ferment it, stirring the yeast well up with the water, cover over with a cloth, and leave for a few days, or until it ceases to work. Skim well, drain the liquor into a cask, stir in Joz. of saffron flowers, fine with 2oz. of soaked and dissolved gelatine, bung up the cask, and in about six months’ time the wine will be fit for bottling. (2) Boil 351b. of lump sugar in lOgalls. of water for half-an- liour, with a handful each of borage, balm, and sweetbriar. Let this cool, then take out the briar, balm, and borage, put the liquor into a cask with the rinds of twelve oranges and twenty-four lemons, thinly peeled, squeeze in the juice of the oranges and lemons, and add 2galls. of fresh or 3galls. of dried Cowslip-heads. Stir the wine each day for a week, dip a piece of toast in yeast, put it in the wine, and leave it for a week to ferment; add lqt. of brandy, cork the cask tightly, and let it remain untouched for two months. Draw it off and bottle for use. Crystallised Cowslips.—Gather the Cowslips when full-blown, wash gently, and then place them in a screen to dry. Cut the stems to within 2in. of the heads, and put the heads on the wire tray of a crystallising-tin, pushing the stalks through the holes so that the flowers shall be upright: when the tray Fig. 535. Crystallised Cowslips. is full, put it in the tin, and fill up with crystallising syrup, pouring it in round the sides and not over the flowers, and proceed as described under Crystallising. When dry the flowers may be arranged in baskets (see Fig 536), or used for ornamenting sweets and other dishes. Dried Cowslips.—Let the flowers be freshly gathered whilst the heat of the midday sun is upon them, and then by slow degrees of heat they can be dried in an oven. In this state they will keep in a dry place for a considerable time, and answer quite as well every purpose of the freshly-gathered flowers. Infusion, of Cowslips.—Take loz. of fresh, or half the quantity of dried, Cowslips, and put them into a vessel containing li pints of boiling water. Close the vessel tightly and let it remain for thirty minutes, and then it will be ready for use. It makes a plqasant tea. CRABS (Fr. Crabes ; Ger. Krebs).—The important tribe of sliell-fish to which Crabs belong is one of the largest described in natural history, and its varieties are legion. Happily for this Encyclopaedia, the tastes of men have not led them beyond the utilisation for food of a very few kinds, and these are the hard-shell red (see Fig. 536) and hard-shell blue (see Fig. 537), the first being found on British shores, and the second (the more highly prized) on the coast of the Atlantic. When these Crabs lose their shells, as they do periodically, they have soft shells for a time, and are then subject to special culinary treatment. The oyster-crab (see Fig. 538) is almost too small to be of any value as food, although epicures have pronounced the flavour very delicious. It Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 449 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. Crabs—contimied. takes its name from tlie circumstance of its early days being spent in the gills of large ocean oysters. Crabs are in season from April to September, and about May lose entirely the dryness of flesh after cook- ing for which they are notorious during the winter months. They are caught in traps like lobster-pots, on Fig. 536. Crab. rocky shores, and sometimes attain extraordinary sizes; the richest flavoured being those of a medium size, say from Gin. to lOin. in their broadest diameter. They should be boiled alive, being plunged into cold water, and as the water warms a handful or two of salt should be thrown in upon them, and when the water has boiled for twenty minutes or half-an-liour, according to size of Crabs, they may be considered sufficiently cooked. If put into hot water at first, which the inclination of humanity might suggest, they are apt to throw off their claws by a violent jerk, and then the water would soak into the flesh and render it sloppy. After the salt is thrown in, the scum rising to the top of the water should be carefully skimmed off. The claws of large Crabs should be tied to prevent them opening and pinching or injuring each other. Crabs are usually sold ready boiled, which is a great con- venience to the cook, whose next care is that of selection. The best Crabs are always heavy according to size; the claws and legs should be all on. They should be stiff and firm, and the eyes should be bright rather than dull. The male Crab has larger claws than the female, but less body in proportion, therefore selection should depend on whether the taste leans towards white j meat, or to the more mellow liver and creamy fat surrounding it. The liver is the soft yellow substance which nearly fills the interior of the body. The female also has a much broader tail than the male. It so happens that lobsters and Crabs are in season at the same time, giving a choice that it is sometimes difficult to decide. Many prefer the Crab on account of the abundance of soft interior ; but the white meat of the lobster is far superior to that of the Crab. They are equally indigestible, but as the Crab is cheaper according to quantity, and yields more eatable parts than a lobster of the same weight, the preference, if any, is more often given to the Crab. Hard-shell Crabs may be dressed and served as follow: (1) Open the Crab, a hen for preference, at the tail, by raising its body or under-shell from the carapace or upper- shell, taking care not to break either ; pick out all the good parts from the body and claws, and chop it finely; mix it Fig. 539. Dressed Hard-shell Crab. with some vinegar, oil, mustard, and pepper; clear out the back shell and put the mixture into either, and garnish with sprigs of parsley, chopped hard-boiled eggs, and lobster coral, or caviare if preferred. Serve with salad (see Fig. 539). (2) Pick out the meat and mix the soft part with bread- crumbs, flavour with a little pepper and salt, and return it to the centre of the shell; pick the flesh from the large claw of the Crab, fill up the two ends, separating it from the other with some red spawn, put it on a dish, surround with a circle of small claws, garnish with parsley, and serve. (3) Remove the meat from the shells and claws, and cut it into small pieces; mix it with 1 table-spoonful of bread- crumbs, a little oil, vinegar, and mustard. Clean the shells by washing them in warm water, put the meat into them, make a bed on a dish with either shredded lettuce, sliced celery, watercress, or parsley, put the Crabs on, and serve. Besides tlie directions for serving Crab plainly dressed there are numerous methods of making Crabs Lip into tasty dishes, and of these the following may be con- sidered very select: Buttered Crab.—Take out the meat of a large boiled Crab, cutting it up small, and mix with a mixture of breadcrumbs and finely-chopped parsley to about a third of the bulk of the Crab-meat. Season well with salt, pepper, cayenne, and put a few pieces of butter over it ; pack it back in the shell, pour over a little vinegar, or lemon pickle or juice, cover over with a thick layer of sifted breadcrumbs, place a few more lumps of butter on the top, set the Crab in a slow oven, and cook until done. Take it out and serve hot. Canapes of Crabs.—(1) Cut from a loaf of bread six slices Bn. thick, trim off the crusts and fry the slices to a light brown in a saute-pan with a pat of butter. Remove the lower shell from the upper of a few good Crabs, and with a pointed knife pick out the meat from body and claws; place the whole of the meat on a plate, season with 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne, and mince up well. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with half a medium-sized peeled and very finely-chopped onion, and cook over a moderate fire for a few minutes, but do not let the onion brown. Stir in 2 table- 2 p450 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. spoonfuls of flour, then 1 gill of broth, add the Crab-meat, cook, and continue stirring for fifteen minutes longer. Turn the whole out into a basin and let it cool. Put 1 table- spoonful of butter into a saute-pan on a hot stove, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and cook very slowly for three minutes ; add 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and the same quantity of grated Gruyere cheese; stir all well together. Turn this also into a basin to cool. Spread a layer of the Crab forcemeat on each slice of toast to iin. thick. Divide the cheese mixture into six equal parts, roll each part into a ball, place these in the centre, over the layer of the Crab forcemeat, arrange them on a flat dish,. and bake in a brisk oven for five minutes. When ready, remove the dish from the oven and serve at once. (2) Reduce f pint of good veloute sauce with wineglass- ful of white wine to a glaze ; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne pepper, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Par- mesan cheese. Take fib. of shelled Crabs, put them into the saucepan, and boil for ten minutes; remove the pan from the fire and let the preparation cool. Prepare six small oblongs of toasted bread, and with a knife spread some of the mixture smoothly over each slice; sprinkle well with grated cheese, and brush over lightly with clarified butter. Place them on a baking-dish, bake in a very hot oven for five or six minutes, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin under. Garnish with parsley. Crab a la Heine.—Pick twelve boiled, hard-shell Crabs into as large pieces as possible ; mix them in a salad-bowl with 5 breakfast-cupful of sliced celery or shredded lettuce, 1 pinch of salt, i pinch of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and H table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Refill six well-cleaned shells with the salad, and on each one lay 1 good teaspoonful of mayonnaise sauce ; sprinkle over with chopped hard-boiled egg, the yolk and white separated, some Crab or lobster coral, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, every article to be used separately, so that each colour may be distinct. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Crab Cromeskies. -Boil three or four large Crabs, removing the meat from the shells as for Scalloped Crabs. Make a batter as follows, and put a frying-kettle half full of fat over the fire to heat: For the batter, mix together 1 break- fast-cupful of flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt, a dust of cayenne, the yolk of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and enough cold water to make it thick. Just before using, beat the white of an egg' to a stiff froth, and stir it lightly into the batter. Cut as many very thin slices of fat salt pork as there are to be cromeskies, and smooth them to the thinness of paper with the back of a knife. Mix with the Crab-meat a seasoning of salt and pepper, add the yolks of two eggs, and enough wine or sauce of any kind preferred to permit the Crab-meat to be made up into little rolls, with the hands damped with cold water. Wrap the rolls in the slices of pork, tie them round, dip into the batter so that they are entirely covered with it, and fry a golden brown in the hot fat. Lay them on brown paper for a moment, to free them from fat, and arrange on a napkin with parsley for g'arnish. Crab Croquettes.—Pick the meat out of the shells of two middling-sized Crabs and chop it, but not too fine. Melt in a saucepan 3oz. of butter, and stir into this 3oz. of flour ; add by degrees -j pint of milk, stir till it boils, and then let it boil for ten minutes ; take the saucepan off the stove, and to the hot milk, flour, and butter add the chopped meat of the Crabs, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a very little cayenne (about as much as will lie on the end of a small knife), mix well together, turn the ’ whole out on to a plate, and let it cool; when it is quite cold, make it into little rolls nearly 3in. long, and egg and breadcrumb these rolls by brushing them all over with beaten egg and then rolling in breadcrumbs. Fry them in hot lard or clarified fat for two minutes, or till they are a nice golden • brown, let them drain for an instant on a sheet of paper, and serve on a folded napkin with a little fried parsley for garnish. Crab Porcemeat.—Fry an onion, chopped very fine, in loz. of butter until it is a golden colour, adding 1 table-spoonful of flour to make a roux. Moisten with ^ pint of stock, stirring well and continuously until the sauce hardens. Crabs—continued. Season with £ table-spoonful of salt, a scant teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, -i- teaspoonful of mustard, a crushed clove of garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well, adding the meat of twelve medium-sized Crabs, chopped very small, with twelve mushrooms also chopped very small. Cook for thirty minutes in a saucepan, then put it back off the hot fire ; add the yolks of four eggs, stir again for a moment, cool, and use as required. Crab Omelet.— Take Coz. of boiled Crab-meat and cut it into small pieces; put them into a saute-pan with 1 wine- glassful of white wine and ^oz. of butter. Moisten with 1 teacupful of strong hot bechamel sauce, and let these cook together for five minutes. Make an omelet with twelve eggs, and with a skimmer place the stewed Crab in the middle, fold over the side opposite the handle, pour in the garnishing, fold the other side up, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Crab Pie.—(1) Pick the flesh from the shells and claws of three large Crabs, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put about 3oz. of butter into a clean saucepan, place it over the fire until melted, then stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, J breakfast-cupful of milk, and | breakfast-cupful of cream. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire, and boil it for three minutes, then move the saucepan to the side, and put in the meat from the Crabs, 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce, and salt and pepper to taste; stir all until thoroughly mixed. Wash the Crab shells clean, dry them on a cloth, and fill with the mixture ; level it off smooth at the top, and strew a thick layer of breadcrumbs over each. Put a few pieces of butter over each shell, and place them in a brisk oven until brown. Put the shells with the Crab mixture on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve them while very hot. (2) Scrape out the meat from the body part of a Crab, leaving the claws for garnishing. Put loz. or 1 Voz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, warm it, add the Crab-meat and a mixture of 1 dessert-spoonful each of vinegar and made mustard, 1 teaspoonful each of salad-oil and pepper, and sufficient cayenne to taste. When all the ingredients are quite hot, put them into the Crab shell, smoothing over the surface, place a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done, put it on a napkin on a dish, and serve with the claws and a few sprigs of parsley for garnish. Crab Salad.—(1) Pick the meat from the shells and claws of a dozen- small Crabs, put it in a salad-bowl, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and a little chopped parsley. Mix well, and decorate the bowl with six small lettuce-leaves, six stoned olives, twelve capers, and two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. It is then ready to be served. (2) Pick the meat out of six Crabs, cut the firm parts into equal-sized pieces, and rub the rest smooth in 1 teacupful of salad-dressing, adding a little mustard; mix with the dressing 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-minced white cold boiled cabbage. Add the Crab-meat withoutTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 451 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. breaking- it, and fill the shells with the salad. Lay some cress or other greens on a dish, put the Crab shells on it, and serve. These salads can be made exceptionally pretty by garnishing in stripes, or other patterns, with chopped white and yolk of eggs, coral and parsley (see Fig. 540). The claws being used to form a crown or other device. Crab Sauce.—Put 3 teacupfuls of milk into a saucepan over the fire, add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter rolled in a little flour, and stir until the butter is dissolved; it should be stirred in one direction only. Chop up the meat from a Crab, and mix it up with a little each of ground mace, cayenne, and salt; stir it into the hot milk, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about three minutes, taking care that it does not boil. Turn it into a sauceboat when ready, and serve. Crabs in Shells.—Clean and boil half-a-dozen Crabs, pick out the meat, and put the coral on one side. Chop up the meat, add a small onion, powdered ginger, or green ginger-juice, lime- or lemon-juice, mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper; put the mixture into a frying-pan with butter, and cook until the butter is absorbed. Pour in a little stock, boil until it is nearly evaporated, then remove the pan from the fire. Well butter five of the Crab shells, and fill them with tbe mixture. Grind down the coral, mix it up with breadcrumbs, sprinkle it over the mixture, put a few small lumps of butter on the tops, place the shells in the oven, and bake for a few minutes. Put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Crab Soup.—(1) Open twelve small uncooked Crabs, and remove the deadman’s fingers and sand-bags. Cut the Crabs in two parts, parboil, extract the meat from the claws, and remove the fat from the back of the shells. Place eighteen ripe tomatoes in a basin, scald them, “skin, and squeeze the pulp through a colander, keeping back the seeds. Pour boiling water over the seeds and juice of the tomatoes, and strain. Put in a saucepan one large onion, one clove of garlic, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of lard, and the pulp of the tomatoes, and let them stew a short time. Put the meat from the claws, then the Crabs, and lastly the fat, into the soup ; season with sweet marjoram, thyme, parsley, lemon, salt, cayenne and black pepper. Pour in the water in which the seeds were scalded, adding more if there is not the required quantity of soup. Simmer for one hour, and a quarter-of-an-liour before serving thicken with grated breadcrumbs. Serve in a soup-tureen. (2) Wash and drain 8oz. of rice, put it into a sauce- pan with lqt. of milk or water, or equal parts of them, and add 2oz. of butter, a seasoning of grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Place the saucepan on the fire and boil gently until the rice is done, then add the meat of the body of a boiled Crab, well pounded in a mortar and rubbed through a fine sieve, with lqt. of rich stock. Pour the ?oup into a clean saucepan, add the meat from the claws, picked out in rather small pieces, season with pepper, and stir in 1 tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy. Boil for a minute or two, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of cream, and stir well until the soup is quite hot, without boiling; turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (3) For 2qts. of soup use a breakfast-cupful of Crab-meat removed from the shell, or canned Crab-meat. Put in a sauce- pan over the fire 2 table-spoonfuls each of ^butter and flour, and stir them together until they are smoothly mixed; then add gradually lqt. each of hot milk and water, making the soup perfectly smooth by stirring it. Season rather highly with salt, white pepper, and cayenne ; put in the Crab-meat and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Let the soup boil once after adding the Crab-meat, and serve. Crab Soup with Okras. —To make 4qts. of soup, peel and slice two onions, and fry them brown in 2 table-spoonfuls of dripping or butter; fry with the onions a thin slice of ham weighing about Jib., and a knuckle of veal chopped, or about 21b. of any cheap cut of veal containing plenty of bone. Whilst these ingredients are frying, wash two dozen pods of Okra in cold water, and slice them thin, throwing away the stems. When the onions and meat are brown, add the Okra to them with 4qts. of boiling water, a small fresh green or red pepper chopped fine, and a seasoning of salt, and simmer the soup Crabs—continued. slowly for two hours, keeping the pot covered. Meanwhilo pick all the meat from six boiled Crabs, and fry it brown, with a small onion sliced and 1 table-spoonful of butter, and peel and slice one dozen medium-sized tomatoes. Four soft- shell Crabs fried in quarters may be used instead of hard-shell Crabs. Add the fried Crab-meat and the sliced tomatoes to the soup at the end of two hours, and let it simmer slowly for two hours longer, keeping it closely covered to prevent evaporation. If it has decreased in quantity, add sufficient boiling water to make it up to 4qts.; remove the bones and any pieces of meat which have not boiled to shreds, season carefully, and serve the soup hot. Crab Stew.— Steam 1 peck of live Crabs for twenty minutes ; pick out the flesh, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk or cream, and stew it for fifteen minutes- Season with salt and cayenne pepper. Devilled Crabs.— (1) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and cook together, stirring constantly to prevent burning; add to it 1 large tumblerful of rich cream, one onion that has been boiled soft and mashed up into a paste or pulp, a little grated nutmeg, and season with cayenne and salt. Then put in the Crab-meat and a raw egg or two, stir all well together, and cook for a few minutes, or until it begins to thicken ; then pour it all on a flat dish and let it remain until cold. Now fill the back shells of the Crabs with the mixture, egg them over with a soft brush, and cover with grated breadcrumbs or cracker-dust. Lay them in a baking-pan, put a small piece of butter on top of each, and bake in a moderate oven to a delicate brown colour, or fry them in plenty of hot frying-.lard. (2) Boil a dozen Crabs, and remove the meat from the shells and claws; add to the meat an equal quantity of bread- or cracker-crumbs, J teacupful each of Worcestershire sauce and mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, half that quantity of cayenne, 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, and just enough milk to moisten these ingredients so that they can be mixed thoroughly. Fill the Crab-shells with this mixture, dust them with cracker- or breadcrumbs, arrange them in a pan, put a small piece of butter on each, and quickly brown them in a very hot oven. Serve hot or cold. The seasoning of devilled Crabs should always be high. (3) Pick out the flesh of one dozen cooked Crabs and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, a little chopped parsley, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of cream, the yolks of three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. When well mixed, put it back in the shells, which must have been previously cleaned, and bake in a sharp oven. Serve very hot. (4) After the Crabs have been boiled in salted water for twenty minutes, crack the claws and take out the meat, remove it also from the shells, and put it in a basin with half the quantity of breadcrumbs; for each Crab add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of warmed butter, J saltspoonful of salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. Put the mixture in the Crab-shells, cover the surface with biscuit-crumbs, place in a brisk oven, and bake brown, basting the tops with butter. Serve in the shells. Fig. 541. Minced Crab. Minced Crab.—Put the finely-chopped meat of a Crab into a saucepan, pour over I wineglassful each of white wine and vinegar, and season with cayenne, salt, and pepper. Cook 2 p 2452 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Crabs—continued. gently oyer tlie fire for about ten minutes, and add 2oz. of butter warmed and mixed up with one boned anchovy, and stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Sprinkle in sufficient sifted breadcrumbs to thicken, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with the claws and sprigs of parsley for garnish (see Fig. 541). Scalloped Crabs.— (1) Remove the meat from the shells of twelve Crabs, rejecting the stomach (which lies just at the back of the eyes), the intestine (which is coiled up in the middle of_ the body), and the soft fins (which lie under the legs), but saving the green fat and the curd (which lie next the shell). Boil two eggs hard, remove the shells, and chop them fine ; grate the rind and strain the juice of a lemon. Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour into a saucepan over the fire, and stir them until they bubble; then gradually stir in 1 pint of milk, and let the sauce thus made boil for a moment; season it with 1 teaspoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of pepper, and a dust of cayenne ; add the Crab-meat, chopped eggs, and lemon. Let these ingredients all heat together, and put the mixture into scallop shells, or on a dish which can be sent to table. Dust cracker-crumbs over the tops, brown the scalloped Crab in a hot oven, and serve at once. (2) Pick out all the meat from the shell of one large Crab, chop it up with some mushrooms, parsley, truffles, and one small onion; put these in a saucepan with a little butter, and turn them about until they are a nice dark brown. Clean and wash the shell. Add some flour, salt, cayenne pepper, and a little corach to the mixture, stir it over the fire a few minutes longer, then turn it into the shell; sprinkle breadcrumbs over the aperture, add a small piece of butter, and brown with a salamander. Serve while very hot. (3) West Indian Style.—To prepare this the required quantity of Crabs should be obtained alive, and their claws pulled off. Put the bodies into a saucepan of cold water and boil them, take out and let them get cold, remove all the flesh, taking care not to break the gall, and mix the dark fat up with the meat; season with cayenne, salt, and pepper, add lime-juice to taste, and mix in a few bread- or biscuit-crumbs. Fill the backs, which must be well cleaned, with the mixture, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for fully ten minutes ; take them out, and serve very hot. The black fat may be omitted if not liked, but it is considered a very great improvement. Stewed Crab with Tomatoes.—Select a large-sized Crab, take out the flesh from the claws and body, as well as the soft parts, carefully removing the lungs (the grey part) and all pieces of shell. Weigh the meat, and to every pound of it add -Jib. of fine breadcrumbs taken from a very stale loaf and passed through a coarse sieve, J pint of tomato sauce, the grated peel and juice of half a lemon, and a few very thinly- cut slices of the same cut off before squeezing. Sprinkle over the mixture a little salt and pepper, and a taste of cayenne (if liked). Put these into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of sherry or Chablis, place the pan over the fire, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. If the Crab is a very dry one, a little more wine may be added, or a small quantity of milk ‘ or water may be mixed with it in the first place. Warm uji slowly, and when hot turn it out into a deep dish, and garnish round the edge with half-slices of lemon and small triangular pieces of dry toast arranged alternately. Soft-shell Crabs require well washing before being subjected to the cook’s hands. It is advisable to rinse them repeatedly, and then to lay them on the table to dry. They must be handled gently, or the claws will be broken off. Next, with a sharp knife cut a half-circle out of the body, passing the blade just behind the eyes— this will remove the eyes and sand-bag—then lift the apron or Hap at the back underpart of the body and cut it away. Boiled Soft-shell Crabs.—Take off the small claws and drop the bodies into boiling' salted water; boil them for a-quarter- of-an-hour, and when they are done, take them out, drain them, and serve with either mayonnaise, cream, butter, or parsley sauce. Broiled Soft-shell Crabs.—After preparing some Soft-shell Crabs, dip them into melted butter seasoned with pepper and salt, put them between the bars of a buttered double-wire Crabs—continued. broiler, and broil them until the shells are bright red and slightly browned. As soon as they are done, serve them hot with melted butter and lemon-juice, or with a lemon cut into quarters. Slices of hot, dry toast may be served under them. Fried Soft-shell Crabs. - Have ready a dish full of fine, dry breadcrumbs or cracker-dust mixed with a little pepper and salt, and on the stove a frying-kettle or large frying- pan half-full of smoking-hot fat; beat two eggs until they are quite mixed, roll the Crabs in the crumbs, dip them for an instant in the beaten eggs, taking care not to wash off the crumbs, then roll them again in the crumbs, and put them in the hot fat to fry ; they will be done as soon as they are brown all over. Take them out with a skimmer, lay for a moment on brown paper to free from grease, and serve hot. A lemon cut into quarters makes a good garnish for them, the juice being squeezed over the Crabs if desired. Sometimes the juice of a lemon is mixed with 1 table-spoon- ful of melted butter and a little pepper and salt, and poured over the Crabs just before sending them to table. Stewed Soft-shell Crabs with Okras.—Brown in a saucepan with Joz. of butter, a chopped onion, about loz. of raw ham cut into dice, half a green-pepper pod (also cut into small dice), J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper; moisten this with lqt. of white broth or consomme, add 1 table- spoonful of uncooked rice, six sliced okras, and a sliced tomato. Let all cook thoroughly for about twenty minutes, and five minutes before serving add the flesh of three well- washed, minced, Soft-shell Crabs. Oyster-Crabs are best known in America, where they form a very high-class dish. The modes of preparing them for the table are limited, and the Crabs themselves are none too plentiful for their quality. Fried Oyster-Crabs.—Wash and dry 1J pints of Oyster- Crabs, dip them first in flour, then in cold milk, and finally in cracker-dust or finely-sifted breadcrumbs; shake them well in a colander, and fry in hot fat for three minutes. Serve in croustades made of short-paste (see Fig. 542), garnish with parsley, and sprinkle a little salt over before serving. Stewed Oyster-Crabs a la Foulette.—Remove all the meat from 1J pints of Oyster-Crabs, put it into a saucepan with a little of the liquor from them, and add loz. of butter, a little each of salt and pepper ; parboil for three or four minutes, add gently 1 breakfast-cupful of Hollandaise sauce, stew for two minutes longer (but without boiling), add the juice of half a lemon and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley ; stir gently, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. CRAB-AFFIiES.—The fruit of the wild apple-tree is generally known by this name; but the American Crab- apple (Pyrus coronaria) is a cultivated tree bearing long- stalked fruit, which grows in clusters or bunches (see Fig. 543). Another variety is the Siberian Crab (Pyrus baccata), which is much smaller, cherry-like, and dark skinned; the ffesli being more or less red and pink throughout. Either of these is excellent for table pur- poses, when cooked and preserved. The following receipts are strongly recommended: American Crab-apple Cheese.—(1) Select as many Crab- apples as will fill a large wide-mouthed jar, and after carefully wiping them, cut away such parts as are bruised or unsoundTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 453 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Crab-apples—continued. in any way. Fill the jar to the shoulder, lay an inverted saucer over the top, and put it in a moderately hot oven. When the Crab-apples have stewed quite soft in their own steam, put them into a coarse canvas cloth and squeeze all the pulp and moisture that can be got out of them through the cloth. Weigh the result, and mix with it (stirring thoroughly) three-quarters of the weight of the pulp in caster sugar. Put the whole into an enamelled stewpan or pre- serving-pan, and boil gently for half-an-hour, removing the scum as it rises. When done, pour this into a mould or plain jar, and when it is set, it can be turned out on to a glass dish and served. (2) To make a clear cheese, the fruit must be cooked as for No. 1; but instead of being pressed it should be poured on to a cloth spread as for straining broth, and allowed to drain through. The fruit can afterwards be pressed to form a separate quantity. Proceed as before. Fig. 543. American Crab-apples. American Crab-apple Jam.—Remove all stalks and unsound parts from the fruit, well wipe it, and spread it out before a fire to make quite sure that the skins are thoroughly dried. Weigh the fruit, and put into a preserving-pan an equal quantity of preserving sugar, with sufficient white wine (of any kind) to moisten. Let this boil well, skim thoroughly, and whilst it is boiling, put in the fruit, and with it a few chopped slices of lemon-peel, or a small quantity of cloves. Continue to boil until the fruit begins to break, then put it into large glass jars. Tie down when cold. American Crab-apple Jelly. —Prepare the apples by removing the stalks and unsound parts, and wipe dry;'cut them into halves, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover the bottom. When the fruit is quite soft, pour off the water, and to every pint allow lib. of preserving sugar. Put this into a preserving-pan with some slices of lemon-peel, and let it boil' slowly for half-an-hour or so, removing the scum as it rises. Have ready dissolved in a little water loz. of gelatine to every quart of the liquor, and just before removing it from the fire, stir the gelatine in rapidly. Fill moulds or glasses with the jelly, and place them on ice to set. It will keep for some time. When required, dip the mould to the rim for an instant in hot water, wipe dry, and turn out the jelly on to a glass dish. If put into jelly-glasses they can be served' in them. The | fruit left can be used for a variety of purposes. Crab-apples—continued. Crystallised Siberian Crab-apples.—Prepare the Apples precisely as for Preserved American Cra-b-Appi.es, but leave the stalks long-. Partly boil, and pour hot syrup over them again and again, and then have ready a strong crystal- lising syrup. Lay the apples on the trays of the crystallising tin, plunge under the syrup, and leave until a hard crust forms over the top ; then pour off the loose syrup, take the apples out, and lay them on a sieve to stand in a drying- closet until they are dry and crisp. For decorative purposes ‘these crystallised Siberian Crab-apples are invaluable. Preserved American or Siberian Crab - apples. — Some enterprising American firms have been introducing the American Crab-apples in jars of thin syrup. The mode of preserving either these or the Siberian Crabs is as follows : Gather the apples just before ripe, carefully select, cut the stalks short, and then plunge the fruit into boiling water for a few minutes until the skin of any one of them begins to crack. Remove from the fire, strain through an earthenware colander, and they may then be easily peeled. Great care must be taken when peeling the apples to keep them scrupu- lously clean, and perfect in shape. Before starting to peel make a thin syrup of lib. of loaf sugar to 1 pint of water, and keep it boiling hot until all the apples are peeled and dropped into a large glass jar. When sufficient are peeled, pour the hot syrup over them, and put by in a cool pantry. The next day, strain off again, put the syrup into a stewpan with lib. more sugar to each pint; boil and skim. Return the apples to the jar and pour the hot syrup over a second time. If on the day following the syrup looks clear, and the fruit is soft, they may be considered ready for tying down. But there will be no harm in repeating the boiling process once or twice more so as to ensure immunity from mould. CRACKERS. — These are described as thin, dry biscuits, often hard or crisp; but as a matter of fact they are sometimes made thick. The ingredients are simple, being chiefly flour and water, and the quality of the Cracker depends principally upon the quality of the flour. In America they are used more commonly than bread, and the “ dust ” (or finely-rolled crumbs) is invaluable in some kinds of cooking. The following re- ceipts for their manufacture are somewhat similar : (1) Take 1 table-spoonful of lard and butter mixed in equal proportions, 1 pinch of salt, and work this into lqt. of biscuit- flour until the greasiness has all crumbled away. Make a stiff paste of this flour with water, and work the dough under the break (see Biscuits) until it blisters. Roll out thin, cut into biscuit shapes, dock, and bake quickly. (2) Rub l|oz. of butter into lib. of flour with 1 p'nch of salt in it, and add sufficient water to form a stiff dough; work it well with a biscuit-break, and roll it out to about -ijin. in thickness. Cut it into shapes, and bake on a sieve in a moderate oven. (3) Prepare a dough with lib. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, 2oz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and sufficient water to make it stiff. Work it well with a biscuit-break until it blisters, roll it out to Jin. in thickness, cut it into shapes, dock, and bake on a sheet in a moderate oven. Crackers in Cream.— Break up some Crackers and spread them over with butter, mustard, salt, and pepper, and put them into a buttered pudding dish; cover over with milk, or milk and cream, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. Serve hot. Cracker Pudding-.—(1) Put half-a-dozen or so of large soda Crackers into a basin and add jib. of cooking butter, 1 tea- cupful of sugar, and the strained juice and grated rind of two lemons, and pour over only as much boiling water as the Crackers will absorb. Put the yolks and whites of three eggs into separate basins, beat them well, and stir both gently in with the Crackers. Should the pudding re- quire sweetening, add sugar to the eggs before mixing them in. Pour the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven until done and of a light golden brown; then take it out, and serve. (2) Mix lOoz. of finely-pounded Crackers with 1 wineglassful of sherry, a little salt, half a grated nutmeg, 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed454 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Crackers—continued. butter. Beat eight eggs to a froth, mix with 3 pints of milk, and pour it over the rest of the ingredients. Let the whole remain till the Crackers soften; then bake in a moderate oven, and serve. Lemon-flavoured Crackers.—Bub 18oz. of butter into 131b. of flour, make a bay, and work in 2^1b. of sugar, loz. of am- monia, loz. of essence of lemon, and 3 pints of water. Work well, roll out the paste, cut it into small rounds, put them on a baking-sheet, and.bake in a moderate oven. Take them out, and use when cold. This quantity is useful for confec- tioners. Soda Crackers are made by adding from 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda to either of the foregoing receipts, or as follows : Make fib. of flour into a very stiff dough with sour milk, in which 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved; work into this 1 dessert-spoonful of mixed lard and butter, beat it well, and roll it very thin. Prick well with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven. CRACKERS (Bonbons, Cosaques, &c.). —• It would be quite impossible to give in these pages anything like a complete list of the numerous varieties of explosive Crackers manufactured in this and other countries for home use and exportation. The name of one maker alone—Tom Smith—is now proverbial, and his produc- tions are famous throughout the land, varying in price and quality from one extreme to the other; and there are numerous other makers whoke Crackers are exceed- Fig. 544. Crackers. ingly well made and amusing (see Fig. 544). Crackers might, for the sake of the amusement, be made at home; but no object of economy would be gained thereby, seeing that they would probably cost more to make than to buy. They afford much amusement amongst adults and children alike. CRACKLING. — There are two or three dishes of confectionery known by this term, for instance almond Cracklings, filbert Cracklings, &c., but the word com- monly means the scored and browned skin of roast pork. Charles Lamb says in one of his amusing essays, “There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted ‘ Crackling ’ as it is well called/’ CRACKNELS (Fr. Craquelins). — The French and English languages are somewhat confused over the words crackle (craqueter), crackling, cracknel (craquelin), &c., the same intention running throughout Cracknel is, therefore, probably a corruption, in spite of the fact that the word is used by the translators of the Bible in their enumeration of the gifts the wife of Jeroboam took to the prophet Ahijali. Unlike any other British cakes, these are hard, shiny, and shell-like on the outside (see Fig. 545), but soft and fluffy within. They are made as follows : (1) Mix up with 3|lb. of flue pastry flour, 1 pincln of salt, loz. of bicarbonate of soda, 1 flat teaspoonful of good Cracknels—continued. baking-powder, 3oz. of fresh butter, and 6oz. of caster sugar ; blend all thoroughly, form a well in the centre, pour in one dozen well-beaten eggs, and work into a stiff dough. Put into a cloth in a basin, and cover over for four or five Fig. 545. Cracknel. hours. Work this dough under the biscuit-break (see Bis- cuits), and then roll out 4in. thick. Shape out with an oval, round, or oak-leaf cutter (see Fig. 546), dock them in the centre, lay out on a tray in rows, cover with a damp cloth for a time, and then drop them one at a time into boiling water. Keep the water simmering until the Cracknels rise to the surface ; remove them with a skimmer and put them into a pail of cold water for an hour, remove from the cold water and lay upon a folded cloth or sieve to drain, brush them over with Fig. 546. Cracknel-cutter. white of egg, set on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven for about twelve minutes. When dropping into boiling- water, take care that the faces are uppermost, and let them boil so on the surface for a few minutes, so that the edges may turn up. (2) Beat up thirteen eggs with lib- of powdered loaf sugar until they are quite light; then stir in 31b. of flour and ioz. of volatile salts (carbonate of ammonia) reduced to a very fine powder. When these are well mixed together, roll out the paste to -Jin. in thickness, cut out the Cracknels, and proceed as for No. 1. (3) Bub 6oz. of butter into 3ilb. of flour, and mix in Goz. of powdered loaf or caster sugar; make a bay in the flour, pour in eight eggs and I pint of water, working into a firm dough ; break, roll, cut, and dock, and proceed as for No. 1. (4) A very superior Cracknel is made as follows: Sift a. small pinch of grated nutmeg into and with lib. of best biscuit flour; rub in ^lb. of fresh butter; make a bay in the centre of the flour, and gradually stir in two eggs beaten up with 1 wine- glassful of rose-water, adding water enough to make a stiff dough. In every other respect proceed as for No. 1. (5) Made with Cornflour.—Put lib. of cornflour on a board or table, and with the hands work in 1 teaspoonful of salt.455 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cracknels—co ntinu ed. loz. of bicarbonate of soda, and five eggs. When the dough becomes quite elastic, put it on a plate, cover with a cloth, and put it in a cool place for a day. Roll it out on a floured board to about jin. in thickness, cut it into shapes with a scalloped cracknel-cutter, prick them all over with a fork, and proceed as for No. 1. Dutch Cracknels.—Warm |lb. of butter and beat it lightly with Jib. of sugar ; when creamy, mix in Jib. of finely-sifted flour, the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of bruised coriander seeds, and 1 table-spoonful of sour cream. Work the mixture well, then divide it into small portions and cut into various shapes, such as rings, twists, etc. Dredge a baking-sheet with flour, lay the cracknels on it, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave them until cold, then keep them in biscuit tins for use. Philadelphia Cracknels. —Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, put them in.a mortar and pound them, and mix in gradually six well-beaten eggs. Slightly warm lib. of butter, and beat it well with lib. of caster sugar ; grate the yellow rind of two lemons, add them to the butter and sugar, and then mix the whole with the pounded almonds. Sift lib. of flour on to a paste-board, then mix the almond paste in with it, and knead it well. Dredge a little flour over the paste and roll it out, cut it into any shapes liked, brush them over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and dust them over with caster sugar. Lay the Cracknels on a buttered baking-tin and bake them in a moderate oven. When lightly browned, take them out of the oven. Care must be taken that they do not burn. CRA.CKNUTS.—This term is popularly applied to the common Spanish or Barcelona nuts, but it is also the name given to some very delicious cakes or wafer biscuits that are made according to the following receipt: Sift Jib. of caster sugar and lib. of biscuit flour together, and into that rub ^lb. of fresh butter until it is entirely taken up. Beat up six fresh eggs with a wineglassful of raisin or other sweet wine, pour this into a well made in the flour, and work it gradually in, adding water should more liquid be required to make a stiff paste. Roll the paste out as thin as paper, and cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter. Dust over with caraway-seeds, brush over with white of egg, dust with caster sugar, and slip them for a minute or two into a quick oven. As these Cracknuts would be too thin to move from a paste- board, it is usual to roll the paste on a sheet of greased paper, removing the pieces of paste from between the rounds. CRADLE-SPIT.—This is one of the most valuable of all roasting apparatus for poultry, small birds, game, or small pieces of meat that it would be better to cook without transfixing with the ordinary spit. Unfortunately there are not many small modern kitchens fitted with a smoke-jack, hence the value of the Cradle-spit is not sufficiently appreciated. A very good imitation can be arranged by tying the bird or meat with string and hanging it on to a bottle-jack. Fig. 547. Cradle-spit. The illustration (Fig. 547) shows two screw arrange- • ments, one at each end, by which the cradle can be opened for the purpose of charging it, or removing the cooked article. Some of these spits are 5Aft. long, and are worked by a chain round the wheel. See Roasting. CRAMBAMBOLI.—The precise meaning of this word is not quite clear, although to the German student it has a charm quite unknown to the uninitiated. At one time it may lie said to have ruled German feasts and festivities, and its preparation was the cause of con- siderable rivalry and duels. Two receipts for manufac- turing the famous bowl are given hereunder, and as they For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Crambamboli -continued. differ considerably it is probable that there have been as many modifications as professed makers. (1) Take lib. of loaf sugar in one large lump; pour 1 pint of rum into a punch-bowl, and set fire to it. Hold the sugar immediately over the flame with a pair of tongs until it has all melted into the bowl. If the rum burns away before all the sugar has melted, put what sugar remains into the bowl. Serve without delay. (2) Empty a bottle of Rhine wine into a punch-bowl, and - place iron skewers across the bowl. Procure a solid lump of sugar, about lib. in weight, baste it well with rum, then stand it on the skewers over the bowl. Set fire to the sugar, and let it burn until all is melted into the bowl. If the flame goes out before all the sugar has burnt, baste it with a few drops more rum. At the last empty in a bottle of champagne, and serve the bowl immediately. Arrack may be used instead of rum. CRANBERRIES (Fr. Airelles; Ger. Moosbeeren; Sp. Arandanos).-—There are two plants that bear this fruit, the one growing to a fine tree, and the other a very Fig. 548. Low or Marsh Cranberry-plant. small shrub (see Fig. 548): the former is commonly known as the High Cranberry (Viburnum Opulus), and the latter as Low, or Marsh Cranberry (Oxycoccus palustris) They are so exceedingly prolific that it has been computed a piece of ground about 18ft. square planted with either kind will produce enough fruit to make one hundred or more large pies. Cranberries grow abundantly in America, France and England, the smaller kind nourishing best in fenny districts and running water. There is a kind of Cranberry grown in Northern Russia which, notwithstanding its extreme acidity, is much used for making soups and sauces. According to Dr. Prior, they derive the name from the crane, which returns to the marshlands in spring when the Cranberries are ripe, and ready for it to feed upon. For making tarts, marma- lade, jelly, and certain sauces, they are higlily esteemed by epicures. Bottled Cranberries.—Gather the fruit in dry weather, and carefully remove the stalks. Put the berries into bottles, packed closely together but without bruising them, fill up the bottles with 26deg. syrup, cork up tightly, and tie them down. Cranberry Compote.—Pick the stalks off about lqt. of Cran- berries. Put Jib. of crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with li pints of water and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon, place the saucepan over a slow fire, and boil the contents until reduced to a thick syrup. Put in the Cranberries, and stir them constantly over the fire with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. At the end of that time take the Cranberries off the fire, leave until cold, then turn them into a compote- dish, or any kind of fancy dish, dust caster sugar over them, and serve. dec., r^'erred to, see under their special heads.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 456 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. Cranberries—continued. Cranberry Jam.—Take some berries, wash them well, weigh them, and allow an equal weight of sugar. Put the sugar with some water—say £ pint to lib. of berries—into a pre- serving-pan, place it on the fire, and boil for ten minutes, continually skimming. Add the berries, and finish boiling until they are quite soft and of a nice colour. When done, warm some glasses or jars, put in the preserve, and tie down with pieces of paper steeped in brandy laid on the top of each. The jars should be opened only when wanted, and be covered up again if all is not required at once, as exposure to the air spoils the jam. Cranberry Jelly.—(1) Take some Cranberries, wash them well, and pick them over. Measure them, and to every quart add lib. of sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Place this in a preserving-pan, and set it on the side of the fire to simmer for thirty minutes. Then pass the jelly through a strainer, and when quite cool put into pots ready for use. (2) Put |oz. of gelatine into sufficient water to cover it, and let it remain for thirty minutes. Put 4oz. of sugar into a pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil until it becomes a syrup ; then put in lib. of berries, and let them simmer by the side of the fire until quite tender. Add the gelatine and 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, Madeira, or any other white wine, a few drops of cochineal, and the juice of a lemon, and boil again for five minutes longer. Take a mould, put a jelly-pot in the centre, and pour round it the fruit; when it is cold and set, turn it out, removing the pot first, and fill the hollow in the centre with whipped cream. (3) Pick and wash 3qts. of Cranberries, put them on the stove in an enamelled saucepan with cold water enough to cover them, and let it simmer slowly till the berries are soft enough to be pressed through a hair sieve with a masher or the back of a wooden spoon. When all the pulp is pressed through, measure it, and to each breakfast-cupful add Rb. of finely- powdered white sugar ; put sugar and pulp together into a saucepan on the stove and let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring all the time. If at the end of that time a little, put into a saucer to cool, jellies, it is sufficiently boiled, and may be taken from the stove and poured into moulds wetted with cold water. Let the jelly stand till it is firm ; it is then ready for use, and may be turned out of the moulds when required. It is served with chicken pie ; or it may be used for Cranberry tart, or for sauce. Cranberry Jelly with. Sago.—Wash and pick 2qts. of fresh Cranberries, put them into a good thick saucepan, pour on only just enough cold water to cover them, set on the stove, and let them cook. Break or bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon as they become tender, and let them stew till all the juice is extracted. Squeeze in a clean straining-cloth or a muslin jelly-bag, and measure the juice. To each pint of juice when strained add Rb. of sugar and loz. of sago, and boil till the sago is perfectly transparent. Pour the jelly into glasses or moulds wetted inside with cold water, let it get quite cold, then turn out, and serve. Cranberry Patties.—Take lqt. of Cranberries, wash them, put them in a pan, and stew them. When done, take them out, strain, and add £lb. of sugar. Take some patty-pans, line the bottom with some light paste, fill up with fruit, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Cranberry Pie.—Take lqt. of Cranberries, plunge them into a pan of cold salted water, and let them stand for twelve hours, when they will require washing in several waters to remove the salt flavour ; then take them out, drain, and put on a cloth to dry. Pick them over carefully, and put into a basin with 4oz. of caster sugar and the juice of half a lemon squeezed over them. Mix well, and add, if thought desirable, a wine- glassful of any white wine. Fill up a pie-dish with the fruit, cover the top with a light paste, put the pie in the oven, and bake until done. Dust over with caster sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Cranberry Roll.—Put lqt. of Cranberries into a saucepan with sufficient water to prevent them from burning, and stew them ; press through a fine sieve, sweeten to taste, and let them cool. Roll out some good paste, spread the stewed Cranberries over, roll it up, tie in a cloth, and boil in plenty of water for about two hours. Turn the roll out when done, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Cranberries—continued. Cranberry Sauce.—Take 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Cranberries, wash them well, and put into a saucepan with 4 pint of water ; sprinkle I teacupful of moist sugar over the top, cover over the pan, and cook for thirty minutes; then mash the berries with a spoon, remove the pan from the fire, and stir up well; it is then ready for use. Cranberry Tart.—Put lqt. of Cranberries into a saucepan with 1 gill of water and 3oz. of powdered sugar, place it on a hot stove, stir lightly with the spatula, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire, rub the fruit through a sieve into a basin, and pour it into a flat dish lined with paste. Place it in the oven and bake for twenty minutes ; take it out and let it cool. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in 3oz. of powdered sugar; spread half of this over the tart, flatten the surface with a knife, put the remainder into a pastry-bag, and decorate with any design. Sprinkle over a good supply of caster sugar, brown the tart for about ten minutes in the oven, let it get cold, and serve. Cranberry Tartlets.—Line six fluted tart-moulds with 41b. of puff paste, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, over this put 12oz. of Cranberry sauce, dust them over with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take them out, dust the edges with more sugar, and glaze it in the oven. Take them out again and let them cool, turn them out of the moulds, cover with a thin coating of apple jelly, and serve. Cranberry Water.—Pick about 1 breakfast-cupful of Cran- berries, put them in a mortar, bruise, and mix with them | pint of cold water. Mix 1 table-spoonful of oatmeal with a small quantity of water, then put it in a saucepan with nearly 2qts. of water and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon. When boiling, stir the Cranberries in with the oatmeal, mix in 3 table-spoon- fuls of caster sugar and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Stir the above mixture and let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and leave it till cool before serving. CRANES.—These beautiful birds, of the genus Grus, like peacocks and herons, have occasionally, in this country, found their way to the tables of the wealthy. The American Crane, of which there are two or more varieties, is frecpiently made the mark of the sportsman ; but although its flesh has been pronounced delicate and fine flavoured, it probably derives more merit from rarity than from real quality. The following is considered the best mode of cooking it, although it is doubtless amenable to receipts given for other large birds, such as the turkey and bustard: Broiled Crane.—Cut the fillets off the breast of a Crane into two large pieces ; mix together in equal proportions some oil and vinegar, and season with salt and pepper. Dip the pieces of bird in this mixture, and wrap a thin slice of larding-pork round each piece ; pack them in an ice-box and leave them till the following morning. When ready, take the pieces of Crane out of the pork, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, arrange the meat on a hot dish, put a few small xheces of butter over it, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and serve. CRAP AUDINE.—This term is applied to a maimer of preparing partridges, quails, and pigeons for broiling, by flattening them and arranging the legs and wings in such a way as to make them in shape something like a crapaud or toad. CRAPE-FISH.—Salted codfish hardened by pressure. This was at one time considered a good method of pre- serving codfish for the use of travellers. CRAPIVA SOUP.—This is a favourite Russian dish that is worth knowing, but not likely to become much of a favourite in this country. The first thing to do is to procure a large bundle of young nettles, and the same quantity of spinach and sour sorrel, all of which grow plentifully in Russia. Wash them in several waters, and boil with a little salt until soft enough to rub through a coarse wire sieve. Slice an onion thinly, and chop it into lengths; fry these in butter, and when taking colourTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 457 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Crapiva Soup—continued. put in witli the onion the previously prepared puree. Fry all together for a few minutes, stirring, mixing, and dusting occa- sionally with flour from a dredger. Transfer this when nicely cooked, without being burnt, into a large saucepan, and gra- dually moisten it with 2qts. of beef broth. Let this boil up, and then move it to one side so that it will continue to simmer, and drop in six smoked sausages, either whole or cut into slices. Boil slowly for an hour, skim off the fat, and just before serving stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream. With this soup it is usual to serve a dish of halves of hard-boiled eggs, which may be either plain, stuffed, or fried. CHAPPIE.—The common name of a sort of fresh- water b&ss of the genus Pomoxys, found in the rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi vales. For inodes of cooking, see Bass. CRAYFISH or CRAWFISH (Fr. Ecrevisses; Ger. Bachkrebs).—There are two species of Crayfish or Craw- fish familiar to this country, the one diminutive, found in rivers, and the larger, caught in the sea. Of the latter it is not necessary to make mack comment, excepting \ \ Fig. 549. European River Crayfish. perhaps to observe that the flesh is much coarser than that of the lobster, and that it is by no means a favourite in England, although it is eaten very freely in France and other parts of the European Continent, where it is palmed off for lobster. Fig. 550. American River Crayfish. The river Crayfish (Astacus fluviatilis) is the idol of the artistic cook ; he uses it upon every available occasion, not always for the sake of its quaint form and pretty colour, but quite as often for the flesh of the tail, which lends Crayfish—continued. itself to so many decorative purposes. In Europe and America the flesh is highly esteemed by all classes. Our British rivers unfortunately provide but a few, no attempt having yet been made to cultivate them; in America the case is different, for some rivers there abound with them. Our deficiency is, however, made-up by importations from France and Germany, basketsful being sent over, not only in good preservation, but alive. As might be expected, the Crayfish common to Europe (see Fig. 549) differs iff some particulars of shape from the American Crayfish (Cambarus aftinis) (see Fig. 550), but in taste they agree. There are so many ways of serving Crayfish, and so many good uses to which they can be adapted by an ingenious cook, that after perusing the receipts contributed to this Encyclopaedia by several experts, numerous variations and modifications will suggest them- selves. First, then, for the River Crayfish.—-These should be supplied alive, and cooked by plunging into boiling water or thin stock in which certain herbs or flavourings have been immersed. It is advisable to fold the tail and tie it round with a piece of thin string or thread, so that the shock may not cause the Crayfish to injure itself or others. Death is in- stantaneous. Aspic of Crayfish with Salad.—Set a plain border-mould in ice, and have ready sufficient warm aspic jelly to fill it. Cut some truffles in halves and dip them in the jelly, as well as an equal number of Crayfish-tails, and as each is dipped stick them round the interior of the mould alternately (see Fig-. 551). Chop up the meat from the claws and stir into the jelly, pouring it at once into the border-mould. When cold, turn the border out on to a dish, after dipping the mould for an instant in hot water. Fill the centre of the border with shredded lettuce mixed with a thick mayonnaise, and pile this upi so that the Crayfish-tails may be arranged round and over it in rows. Garnish the dish with coarsely-chopped aspic, and put a few pieces on the topi. Serve very cold. Bisk of Crayfish.—See Bisk. Bouchees of Crayfish.—Take two dozen Crayfish and pint them in a stewptan with a little salt, a few pepipiercorns, some finely-choppjed vegetables, a bunch of piarsley, and a little vinegar or white wine ; cover over the pan, put it on a good fire, and boil for eight or ten minutes. Remove the pian from the fire, and when the fish have cooled a little, take out the flesh from the tails and claws and cut it up into small pieces, putting them into a small plan, and thickening with a little reduced white sauce. When wanted for serving, fill a dozen bouchees piatties with the preparation, and garnish over with lobster coral and parsley. Canapes of Crayfish-tails.— Take some slices of bread cut gin. in thickness, remove the crust, cut them up into smaller pfieces 2fin. long and ljin. wide, put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and fry until light brown. Take them out, drain them, and spread over some Crayfish butter. Put some trimmed Crayfish-tails on the centres of the slices of bread, with a border of finely-chopped piarsley round them, arrange these canapes on a folded napkin, and serve.458 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. Crayfish a la Bordelaise.—This is a very celebrated mode of dressing Crayfish. Put two dozen selected Crayfish into a pan with water and a little milk mixed, and let them soak for two hours; then take them out and put on a strainer to drain. In the meantime, make a good mi- repoix of vegetables with Bordeaux wine, and add to the liquor a bunch of parsley, a slice of uncooked ham, 1 small wineglassful of cognac, 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of Madeira, and a little salt. Put the lid on the stewpan, place it on the fire, and boil for five or six minutes; when boiling hot, put in the Crayfish, and let thorn remain for ten minutes, after which pour the liquor through a sieve; reduce it to half, adding gradually 1 pint of veloute sauce. When suffi- ciently reduced, strain it through a cloth into another pan, and stir in jib. of good butter, a little piece of Crayfish butter, and 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Take off the small claws, place them in a group on a cloth in the centre of the dish, and arrange the bodies round, garnishing all with a few sprigs of parsley. The sauce must be served separately. Tin. 553. Stand for Crayfish. Crayfish served en Buis- son.—A very pretty mode of serving Crayfish is that represented in Fig. 552. For this purpose a stand is re- quired (see Fig. 553), which may vary in shape according to fancy. There is no particular art in the arrangement, the idea bei-ng to show the Crayfish imbedded amongst parsley. A few short pieces of thin bouquet-wire would be found useful to secure the sprigs of parsley; the Crayfish are merely hung on by their tails. Crayfish a la Lorraine.—Take two dozen selected Crayfish, thoroughly clean them, put into a saucepan with suffi- cient white wine to cover them, and boil until done; Crayfish—continued. then take them out, drain, and put the liquor on one side for further use. Take lib. of uncooked ham and cut it into small dice, place it in a stewpan with a little butter to warm, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Fry all these together for a few minutes, adding a little boiled milk and the liquor of the Crayfish. Stir until it boils, and reduce till frothy and succulent, when the pan must be removed to the side and a lump of butter and a little parsley added. Remove the small claws, place the fish on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Crayfish a la Mariniere.—Take a dozen or two of Crayfish, remove the small claws, put them in a stewpan, and boil with wine until done; drain off the liquor, let it settle, and then pass it through a fine cloth to clarify it. Take an onion, chop it up finely, and fry lightly, so that it does not colour at all. Pour in a little of the Crayfish liquor and a little wine, and boil for two or three minutes; next put in a lump of butter worked into some breadcrumbs and finely- chopped parsley to thicken it, and lastly add a little cayenne and the juice of a lemon. Place the Crayfish on a dish and p ur the sauce over. Crayfish a la Polonaise. -Take three dozen selected Cray- fish, wash them well while still alive, and then put them on a strainer to drain. In the meantime take two onions, one large carrot, and a parsley- and a celery-root, chop them up very finely, fry in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and add a bottle of white wine. Place the stewpan back on the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil put in the Crayfish, some peppercorns, cumin-seed, a bunch of parsley and fennel, and a little salt. Put the cover on the pan and boil up quickly for eight minutes; then take out the fish, drain them, and remove their small claws, keeping the fish still hot. Take ilb. of butter, put it into a stewpan, warm it until it gets of a light brown colour, add 2 handfuls of breadcrumbs, and then the Crayfish. Pour in 1 pint of good sour cream, place the pan on the fire again, and toss the fish so as to get them well mixed with the sauce. Take them .out when done, and dust over with a little fresh fennel (chopped finely) and a pinch of pepper, and spread over them a lump of butter broken to pieces. Place on a dish and pour the sauce over. Crayfish a la Poulette. —Take any Crayfish that are too small for other uses, remove the small claws, put the fish in a cloth and shake them well, so that no water remains in them. Make a sauce in the usual way, with 4oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce, a little chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, which, when it becomes thick, put in the fish and serve hot. Crayfish a la Provenpale. -Select two dozen Crayfish and boil them in a pan in a mirepoix with white wine, sweet herbs, and a slice of ham. When done, take out and let them drain. Strain the liquor through a sieve, add a little good gravy, and then reduce it to half-glaze, mixing in 5 or (i table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. When it is sufficiently reduced, remove the pan to the side of the fire, let it simmer for a few minutes more, and add a little cayenne to season it. Take it from the side of the fire, and add to it 6oz. of butter pulled to small pieces to thicken it. Put the Crayfish on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve the sauce in a boat separately. Crayfish Boiled in Court Bouillon.—Put some butter into a stewpan and add a little celery-root, leek, and onion, all finely minced, place the pan on a rather slow fire, and fry them. Then add a little white wine, salt, a small bunch of parsley, and a few peppercorns. Boil for seven or eight minutes, and then put in twenty-five live Crayfish; cover over the pan, and boil for seven or eight minutes longer. Toss them a little in the pan, take them out, put on a strainer to drain, and place on a dish. Strain the liquid, reduce it by boiling to half its original bulk, add a little piece of butter, and pour it over. Crayfish Butter. -(1) Take the shells and small claws of some Crayfish, put them into a mortar with a large lump of butter, and pound them well until they become a paste. Put this into a stewpan, and put the stewpan into the bain- marie. When the mixture is quite hot, pass it through a tammy into a basin of cold water, and let the butter rise to the top ; it is then ready for use.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 459 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, At. , referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. (2) Pick the meat from the tails of twelve boiled Crayfish, dry the shells, and pound them all together in a mortar, adding loz. of good butter. Place the whole in a saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring until it clarifies, then strain it through a napkin, letting it drop into cold water. When congealed, take it out and place in a warm basin, stirring until it takes the colour. Crayfish Cheeses with Jelly. —Take three dozen Crayfish, boil them, remove the flesh from the tails and claws, cut it up into small cubes, and mix with them the fillets of four anchovies, also cut up into cubes, and 2 table-spoonfuls of capers. Thicken the mixture with mayonnaise sauce finished with a little aspic jelly. Take ten or twelve dariole- moulds, place them on a baking-sheet, and put ice all round ; put at the bottom of each a round of sliced gherkins pre- viously dipped into half-set aspic jelly. Mask the sides of the moulds with a layer of mayonnaise and aspic, and fill them with the prepared mixture ; lastly, mask the top with a layer of mayonnaise. Let the cheeses remain in the ice for an hour. When wanted to be served, turn them out and arrange on a dish, garnishing with parsley. Crayfish Croquettes. —Make a Crayfish salpigon, and keep it covered over. Take a little bechamel sauce, reduce it, and add a few table-spoonfuls of mushroom-liquor and a little cream ; when it is thick, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked mushrooms cut up small, and a little Crayfish but’.er. Take it off the fire, carefully put in the salpiQon, and pour the whole into a kitchen basin to cool. Shape the croquettes like corks, dip them in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat to a light brown colour. Take tliem out, put on a strainer to drain, and place in a group on a dish with a folded napkin laid on it. Crayfish for Garnish. — (1) Take the required number of fish and plunge them into boiling salted water in which a little vinegar and a few chopped vegetables have been cooked. Put the pan on the fire and boil for eight or ten minutes longer. Toss them in the pan frequently until they are done. (2) Take some Crayfish, and wash them well in several waters until quite clean and the water is left clear. Put a few slices of carrots, onions, a little parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, a little water, and salt and pepper into a saucepan, and boil for an hour; then drain off the liquor and put it into another saucepan upon the fish, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring slowly all the time. Let them remain in the liquor until wanted; then remove, drain, and take off all the small claws. They are then ready to serve. Crayfish Nudels.—Prepare the nudel-paste with the yolks of three eggs, working them together with sufficient flour to make a stiff dough ; divide this into six equal portions, shape them into balls, and roll them out. Put the nudels in a saucepan with sufficient milk to cook them, and boil until tender. Beat the yolks of four eggs and stir them in with the nudels, add 2oz. of Crayfish butter, and continue stirring until dis- solved. Season to taste with salt, and then mix in the whites of the four eggs, which should have been whisked to a stiff froth. Thickly butter the interior of a mould with Crayfish butter, turn the nudels into it, put a few bits of Crayfish butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. When the nudel mixture is browned and lightly caked over the top, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Crayfish Omelet. —(1) Take two dozen tails of boiled Cray- fish and cut them up into dice. Remove the flesh from the claws, chop it up with the trimmings of the tails and an equal quantity of fresh mushrooms, put them into a basin, and add ten eggs, a little salt and nutmeg to season, and a small pinch of finely-chopped parsley; whip them well for two or three minutes. Put 4oz. of butter into an omelet-pan and warm it, add the eggs, &c., let it thicken a little, and then put the tails—previously mixed with 1 table-spoonful of white sauce reduced with a little meat glaze—in the centre. Take out the omelet when cooked, roll it up, put it into an oblong dish, and serve. (2) Stew twelve Crayfish-tails in a saute-pan on the hot stove with Joz. of butter, letting them cook for five minutes. Break twelve eggs into a bowl, add 5 teacupful of cream and 1 pinch ■of finely-chopped parsley, season with 1 pinch of salt and Crayfish—continued. 'x pinch of pepper, then beat it up sharply for four minutes. Make an omelet and fold up the side opposite the handle of the pan. place the Crayfish right in the centre, fold up the other side, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Crayfish Pudding1. —(1) Put Jib. of breadcrumbs into a basin with some warm milk, and let them soak for five minutes ; then take them out, press well, and put them into a stewpan. Place the pan on the fire to warm, and with a spoon well work the crumbs ; then put the pan on the side of the fire »and add one eg'g, a little caster sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Warm 4oz. of Crayfish butter and 2oz. of other butter in a basin and thoroughly work with a spoon ; when beginning to cream, add, one at a time, the yolks of six eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar. When the mixture is quite frothy, add the breadcrumbs and the well-whisked whites of five eggs. Turn it at once into a cylinder-mould previously buttered and floured, and put it in the bain-marie for forty- five minutes, to poach. When ready, turn it out on to a dish and mask it with vanilla cream. (2) Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs in milk ; warm 2oz. of Crayfish butter, and beat it, adding gradually the yolks of five eggs ; then mix them with the soaked crumbs, and put in a small quantity of salt. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them gently in with the above mixture. Thickly coat the interior of a mould with Crayfish butter, and arrange tastefully round the sides ami at the bottom a few Crayfish-tails ; then pour in the above mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the mould. Place the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three- quarters its height, and steam it. Prepare a sufficient quantity of Crayfish sauce, flavouring with lemon-juice and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Crayfish. Quenelles (German).—Pick the flesh out of the shells of several fresh Crayfish, and chop it as fine as possible. Prepare ilb. of Crayfish butter, warm it slightly, beat it vigor- ously until it begins to get creamy, then mix it with the beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir it into the minced fish ; add about 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, k table-spoonful of minced chives, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Work the ingredients until well mixed, then divide the mixture with a table-spoon into small egg- shaped pieces; plunge these into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on a hot dish over a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Crayfish. Rissoles.—Take a dozen or so of middling-sized Cray- fish, and boil them in the ordinary way. Remove the flesh from the tails and claws, cut it up into small pieces, and put them in a basin with the same quantity of . cooked fish force- meat, likewise cut up. Then take the same bulk of mushrooms as of Crayfish, and put them into a saucepan with a few table-spoonluls of bechamel sauce. Place the pau on a sharp fire in order to reduce the quantity, adding afterwards a little of the liquor of the Crayfish. Stir it until it becomes thick, and then add the Crayfish and forcemeat. Let the whole boil up once, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs and a lump of Crayfish butter, also a little grated nutmeg to taste. Pour it into a basin and let it cool. Next make lib. of puff paste, cut it in halves, roll it out, one half after the other, into square thin flats. Put some small balls of tiie Crayfish mixture, about the size of a walnut, on the first flat about Ijin. apart. Damp the paste and fold it in a straight line so as to cover the mixture, and fix it between each ball by pressing it down with the finger. Take a plain or fluted biscuit-cutter about 2in. in diameter, and cut out the rissoles in the shape of a crescent. As soon as the first row of rissoles is ready, cut the flat straight with a knife, and commence another row in the same way, until all the mixture is used up. Put each rissole into well-beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs, rubbing them over with the hand to spread the crumbs over equally, and place them on a baking-sheet covered with buttered paper. Just previous to being served, throw them into boiling hog’s lard, and fry them for six or eight minutes, or until of a nice colour; then take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, and serve on a dish with a cloth or napkin spread over it.460 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. Crayfish Salad with Aspic.— (1) Select three dozen Crayfish and boil them; take them out when done, and let them cool. Remove the flesh from the tails and claws, put it into a basin, add a little seasoning, and cover with oil and vinegar. Take the small claws, remove the flesh from them, also the trimmings of the tails, mix them into a lettuce-and-cress salad cut up into shreds, season with salt, and add a little mayonnaise sauce to thicken. Take a plain border-mould, and put ice all round it. Next take four hard-boiled eggs, divide them in halves, dip them on one side only into a little half-set aspic jelly, and put them into the mould in an upright position with the points directed, to the bottom, cutting away a little of the sides to the shape of the side of the mould. In a few minutes’ time fill the mould up with aspic jelly, and let it get cold and set; about fifteen minutes before it is wanted, turn it out on to a dish (quite cold). Arrange the salad in the shape of a pyramid in the cavity of the border. Take the tails one at a time, and with the aid of a larding-needle place them in a circle on the salad (see Fig. 551). Garnish an attelette skewer with a truffle, and put it in the top. Serve a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce with this. (2) Many varieties of this very pretty salad can be arranged by artistic cooks. The half eggs may be omitted, and the jelly border ornamented with glaze (see Fig. 555). Fig. 555. Crayfish Salad with Asric (No. 2). Crayfish. Sauce.—Take ^lb. each of flour and butter, and moisten with a little water and the liquor that any fish has been cooked in (but having the fat removed), and with them make a sauce. When it thickens in boiling, add 3oz. of fresh butter, a small lump of Crayfish butter, and 5 table-spoonfuls of Crayfish-tails and claws, either cut up into small dice or put in whole. Crayfish Soup.—(1) Thoroughly wash fifty live Crayfish in plenty of cold water, and put them head first into 4qts. of boiling water with 1 table-spoonful of salt, a carrot scraped and sliced, one turnip and one onion (peeled and sliced), one Crayfish—continued. small sprig of parsley with the root attached, one red pepper, and a dozen whole cloves. Boil all these together for twenty minutes, then take out the Crayfish, and continue to boil the soup as before. When the Crayfish are cold enough to be handled, break the tails away from the bodies, remove the flesh of the tails entire, and put it by to use presently. Put the shells of the tails and the bodies of the Crayfish in a mortar and crush them ; then put them into tbe soup, and continue boiling it for an hour longer. When the soup has boiled an hour, strain it, pressing the vegetables and Crayfish shells with a wooden spoon in a fine sieve to extract all possible colour and flavour; next, mix together over the fire 2 heaped table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour until they are smoothly blended, and gradually add to them the strained soup, stirring constantly to prevent the formation of lumps. When all the soup has been stirred in, add 1 gill of cream and i pint of white wine, put in the Crayfish-tails, season with salt and cayenne, and serve at once. (2) Put two dozen Crayfish in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for fifteen minutes; then drain them, pick out the meat from the shells, and cover it over. Put the shells and small claws in a mortar and pound them well, mixing in by degrees 3oz. of butter; then put this in a stewpan, stir it over the fire until the butter is red, pour in 1 pint of clear broth, and boil gently for an hour. At the end of that time strain the soup into a large saucepan, pour in enough clear broth to mAkc 3 pints of soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, put in the meat of the Crayfish, and place it over the fire until very hot, but without letting it boil. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a soup-tureen, then pour the soup in gradually, stirring at the same time. Serve the soup while very hot, with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Crayfish Stock.—We are indebted to Baron Brisse for'this fine receipt. Boil three dozen Crayfish, put the bodies with the meat from the tails into a mortar, and pound well with one dozen blanched sweet almonds. Put 4oz. each of ham and veal into a saucepan with a few sliced onions, parsnips, and carrots; cook for a few minutes on the side of the fire, then add a small quantity of melted bacon-fat, and 1 tea- spoonful of Hour; stir the latter well in, and pour in the quantity of stock required; season with mushrooms, truffles, chives, cloves, parsley, basil, salt, and pepper, and add two or three small breadcrusts. Simmer gently until the veal is done, take it out, add the mashed Crayfish, and rub the whole through a fine sieve ; it is then ready for use. This stock may be used for moistening pies, patties, &c., or for cooking such vegetables as cardoons and cauliflowers, or it may simply be served with boiled rice. Potted Crayfish.—Pull out all the meat from about six dozen boiled Crayfish, put it into a mortar, and pound it well with ' IJoz. of butter and a seasoning of ground mace, salt, and pepper. When these ingredients are pounded to a smooth paste, stuff it into jars, cover over with warm butter, tie the jars over with bladder to prevent the air from getting into it, and the potted Crayfish will then be ready for use. Salpi^on of Crayfish. -Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from three Crayfish, all cut into dice ; thicken well, and let it cook for five minutes ; then serve. Scalloped Crayfish-Tails.—Remove the tails from some Crayfish, and cut them into three pieces. Put some veloute sauce into a stewpan with a little essence of mushrooms, and reduce it; then add a little fresh butter, and also a little Crayfish butter to thicken it. Next add the tails and an equal bulk of mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a little lemon-juice. Mix well, and fill some scallop-shells or tin shell-shapes, sprinkling a few fried breadcrumbs over the top, place them in the oven for a few minutes to warm, and then serve. Stewed Crayfish. — Put the bodies and shells from the tails of lqt. of Crayfish into a mortar, crush them a little, put them into a saucepan with £ pint of white wine, or water slightly acidulated with vinegar, and add half a blade of mace ; cook gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring well, and strain the liquor into another saucepan. Put in the Crayfish-tails, half a grated nutmeg, 2oz. of butter rolled in flour, and a slightTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 461 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c,, referred to, see under their special heads. Crayfish—continued. seasoning of salt. Toss the pan for a few minutes, and cook until the preparation is done, which should be within half- an-hour of the commencement. Cover the bottom of a dish with slices of toast, pour the Crayfish mixture over, and use the claws for a g'arnish. Timbale of Crayfish.—A great number of Crayfish are required for this dish, so that it would be sufficient for a large party. Having picked out the tails of some 150 Cray- fish, brush each over with warmed Crayfish butter. Have ready some very clear savoury jelly and a large timbale-mould, warm the jelly just to the liquid state, pick up each tail with a larding-needle or other convenient article, and dip each in the jelly ; then arrang'e them round the mould as shown Fig. 556. Timbale of Crayfish. in the drawing (see Fig. 556). The jelly will make them adhere to the mould. When the top is reached—remember the mould will be upside down, and should be packed in ice— leave the jelly fixing the tails to set. Pick out all the meat from the claws and bodies, and chop up very fine; mix this mince with sufficient warmed jelly to fill the timbale, and leave that also to set. When the jelly is firm, dip the mould for an instant in hot water, wipe the mould, and then turn the timbale out on to a dish. Garnish with croutons of jelly and an attelette decorated with truffles. Sea-Crayfish.—Although the flesh of these ungainly- looking fish is coarse ancl lacks flavour, it admits of very nice treatment, as is shown in the following receipts : Roasted Sea-Crayfish.— Fasten a Sea-Crayfish on the spit in front of a clear fire, and roast it, basting it frequently with a preparation of butter melted and mixed with cham- pagne and highly seasoned with salt and pepper. When the fish is done, which can be told by the softening of the shell, put it .on a dish, strain the basting liquor, flavour it with lemon-juice, add a little champagne, salt and pepper to taste, pour it over, and serve very hot. Sea-Crayfish a la Bordelaise.—Put a few shallots and one onion chopped very fine into a stewpan with a little oil, and fry them, but not enough to colour them, adding also two tails of uncooked Sea-Crayfish chopped up with the shells on. Toss the pan, and add a bunch of parsley garnished with a sprig of thyme, and a little cayenne and salt to season it; let them remain on the fire for two or three minutes, then add 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, put the cover over the pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take out the fish, drain it, wipe the shells clean outside, and put them on a dish, with chopped parsley dusted over them. Add a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce to the liquor to thicken it, and also a lump of butter, boil it up again, strain through a cloth, and pour it over the fish. Sea-Crayfish Patties.—Put 21b. of puff or brioche-paste on to a damped board, roll it out thin, and with a biscuit-cutter cut it up into two dozen rounds about 3in. in diameter. Prepare a little mixture with two Sea-Crayfish and fish forcemeat, put a small quantity of this on half the rounds of paste, cover over with the other half, press the edges well together, brush the patties over with beaten egg, put them in a sharp oven, and bake until done; then take them Crayfish—continued. out, and serve as hot as possible. If desired, after they have been egged over they may be plunged into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fried. Sea-Crayfish with Prawns.—Put two large Sea-Crayfish into some court bouillon, and boil them until quite done ; then take them out, drain on a sieve, and remove the flesh from the tails, breaking the under-shell so as to keep the flesh whole. Sponge the meat and shells, and put them on a dish, with the shells spread their full length upon a bunch of parsley put in the centre ; cut the meat of the tails into *. slices, and put them along the sides of the shells ; put four Fig. 557. Sea-Crayfish with Prawns. sauce, with the creamy part of the shells added, also seasoned with a little cayenne. Garnish with croutons of aspic (see Fig. 557). CREAM (Fr. Creme; Ger. Ralim; Sp. Crema; Ital. Crema).—The derivation of this term is somewhat obscure and confusing. Webster and other lexicographers give it as being akin to the Latin verb cremare, to burn; but fail to show the process by which this has come to signify the oily constituent of milk. It has been suggested that Cream alludes to the readiness with which milk burns in boiling; but if we go back to the French use of the word, we find that it was first applied to a custard, which was known to Continental cooks as English Cream—Cream in delicate allusion, probably, to the care required in its cook- ing. Every cook knows that a custard should be boiled in a water-bath, on account of the readiness with which it burns; a peculiarity that gave Continental cooks, who were jealous of England’s reputation with the custard, an opportunity of changing the name to creme an bain- marie. The famous Careme appears to have been still more dissatisfied even with this subterfuge, therefore lie contrived to convert the English custard (creme Anglaise) into creme Franchise by the addition of a small quantity of isinglass to the mixture. In an unfortunate moment the word Cream was adopted into the English language as applying to the thick olea- ginous fluid which rises to the top of milk after standing, and from which butter and cheese are made. With a know- ledge of Continental cookery we became familiar with the Continental adaptation of the term, hence our acceptation of the word is not only extensive but somewhat contradic- tory and confusing, unless we are content to regard as Cream every thickened fluid that has the oily parts of milk for its foundation. Of the liqueurs called cremes, such as creme de noyeau, these may be considered fancy names ; also Creams in confectionery, as chocolate Creams. These will be fully described under their particular headings, so also will custards, cullis, and other terms that might be confused with Cream. Creaming, or Separating as it is technically called, is brought about in either of two ways : by setting the milk in large earthen pans in a dairy kept at an even temperature, taking the Cream off with a skimmer as it rises and accumulates on the surface; or by the use of a machine called a “ separator.” By the first, or “ setting ” system, the oleaginous particles of the milk rise to theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 462 For details respectin'7 Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <1referred to, see under their special heads. Fig 55S. Cream-bowl (Dairy Supply Company). Cream—continued. surface and collect in a thin stratum, provided the milk is left quite undisturbed for some time. The now celebrated Dr. Laval discovered that violent agitation would have the same effect, and invented machines called “ separators,” small ones being worked by hand, while larger ones - require steam power. One of the hand-power machines, called “ the Baby,” is especially calculated to render good service where only, two or three cows are kept. Experience shows that this machine will extract some 20 or 30 per cent, more Cream from the milk than can be obtained by “setting.” It operates on new milk at once, just as it comes from the cow, the cylinder at the top being sometimes fitted with a cold- water jacket so as to reduce the temperature of the milk if warm. The operation is very simple: the milk is put into the cylinder at the top, and by a rapid turning of the handle the Cream is separated from the milk by a centrifugal action, and after being collected by a specially arranged apparatus, trickles out of one pipe, whilst the “ separated ” milk pours out from the other. Cream-setting pans are made of various sizes, styles, and materials—those stamped solid from silver-tinned steel are excellent, being very strong and durable; those of white porcelain with lips, are much used, and look very clean and attractive, but need not be preferred to the steel pans so far as results are concerned. A Cream-spoon is very useful for collecting the Cream as it forms, but it is not so frequently used as the skimmer. A small bowl (see Fig. 558) receives the Cream as it is skimmed off. When the Cream is required to keep for any length of time, or for frequent serving, a covered earthenware jar, or “steen” (see Fig. 559) is found to be very convenient, and the Cream is poured into it from the collecting bowl. The following receipts refer more especially to the preparations evolved from the principle already described. See also Butteb, Cheese (for Cream cheeses, &c.), Cus- tards, and several sauces, such as Veloute (velvet sauce), Bechamel, Mayonnaise, and varieties of these. Bavarian Cream.—This Cream is served cold, or is sometimes used to fill a charlotte russe. (1) Take 1 pint of thick Cream, add sufficient caster sugar to sweeten it, and flavour with vanilla or lemon. Whisk the Cream to a froth, which remove as fast as it appears and put in a glass dish. Take 1| table- spopnfuls of gelatine, dissolve it in warm water, and when it has quite dissolved, add it to the froth, and mix for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Put it on the ice or in a very cool place for a few hours, when it will be ready for use. (2) Dissolve |oz. of gelatine in cold water until it has quite disappeared, and then add 3 pints of Cream or milk, and put it into a saircepan. Place the pan on the fire, and stir well until scalding hot; then remove it from the fire, and put in 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and the yolks of eight eggs, added a little at a time to the other ingredients, taking care to stir well while doing so. Replace the mixture on the fire, and keep it there till quite hot again. Take it off, and add the whites of the eight eggs well beaten with 8 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract. Pour it into moulds, and place it on the ice until wanted. Fig 559. Cream-jar (Dairy Supply Company). Cream—continued. (3) Put II pints of milk into a saucepan with 6oz. of sugar and loz. of gelatine, and stir it over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved, but do not let it boil. Strain it through a sieve into a freezer, work well, and when it has nearly set, add 1 teacupfnl of Cream beaten up for ten minutes, and the whites of six eggs whipped and put into the Cream, and then beat up all for five minutes more. While beating, add the flavouring required, such as lemon, vanika, or almond, or any other selected. (4) Put foz. of gelatine over the fire with 1 gill of hot water, and stir until it is dissolved, when it may be set near enough to the fire to keep it liquid. Whip the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and gradually pour the liquid gelatine into it, whipping until it begins to set; then cool for five minutes, whip again, and stir into it 4oz. of pulverised sugar, five drops of lemon- and ten of vanilla-essence, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. In the meantime prepare 1 pint of whipped Cream ; when the whipped Cream is ready, whisk the yolk of one egg for one minute, and then beat it into the prepared gelatine ; last of all add the pint of whipped Cream, stirring it in very gently and thoroughly, and use the Cream fo fill a charlotte-monkl lined with sponge-cake or lady’s- fingers. The Bavarian Cream is sometimes cooled in a mould, Fig. 560. Bavarian Cream. and turned out on a base of whippe 1 Cream decorated with half-cherries (see Fig. 560). Boston Cream Puffs.—Put I pint of water into a saucepan with lib. of lard and a little salt, and boil; then add gib. of flour, or a little more if required, and stir over the fire for five minutes longer, or until it becomes a smooth paste. Take it off the fire, and mix in five eggs, one at a time. Take a spoon, and drop small quantities of the mixture on to slightly- buttered baking-tins, giving an inch or so of distance between each. Put the sheet into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Open the puffs by making an incision in the sides, and fill them with Cream. Bourbon Cream Ice. Put 2oz. of currants, well washed and dried, into a bowl, with the same quantity each of candied orange-peel, citron-peel, dried cherries, cut pine-apple, and a little essence of vanilla, and add to these 1 teacupful of maraschino and let them soak in it. Make a custard with 1 pint of milk, fib. of caster sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs, and mix in with it | pint of milk of almonds made with Goz. of blanched Jordan almonds and twelve bitter ones. The vanilla essence may be added to the latter and not the former mixture, which is a decided improvement. Put the milk of almonds and custard into a basin together, and place them on the ice to freeze; then add the fruits, work well with a spoon, and freeze until quite firm, when it can be put into moulds, and left on ice until wanted for use. Burnt Cream. Put 1 pint of Cream in a saucepan with the thinly-pared yellow rind of one lemon, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and boil it. Put four whole eggs in a basin with the yolks of two, 1 table-spoonful of flour and i wineglassfnl each ot ratafia and orange-flower water, and beat them well. Strain the Creamthrough a fine hair sieve, leave it until nearly cold, then stir it in with the beaten eggs. Turn the mixture into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil, then turn it into a dish. Put about 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a small saucepan with a small quantity of water, and place it over the fire until browned ; then take it off and stir it. Pour the sugar fancifully over the top of the Cream, and serve it either hot or cold.463 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads, Cream—continued. Burnt Cream Sauce.—The following sauce can be used for either custard or batter pudding. Put 2oz. of caster sugar into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire till dark brown ; pour in slowly with the sugar 1 teacupful of thin Cream, or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk and 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream. Continue stirring the sauce over the fire till the Cream is hot, then turn it into a sauceboat, and serve. Chateaubriand Cream.—Set a jelly-mould upon the ice and pour some liquid jelly round it, turning it round sideways so as to let it set; stick some shredded alnjonds round the sides and top until the mould is covered, put a little more of the jelly round, and when set give it another coating. When this is done satisactorily, fill in the cavity with noyeau Cream. Clouted or Clotted Cream.—This is a favourite in the West of Eng-land. Put the milk into a bell-metal vessel and let it remain for twenty-four hours, then put it over a wood fire so that it will be thoroughly heated. When it has been over the fire for an-hour-and-a-half and is about to simmer, strike the vessel with the knuckles, and when it ceases to ring, or at the appearance of the first bubble, it must be removed, for the great secret is not allowing it to more than simmer. Take it off the fire and let it stand for twenty-four hours longer, when the Cream will have risen thick enough to be cut with a knife. It must then be skimmed off and put into jars for use. Confectioners’ Cream (Creme Patissiere).—Put 1 pint of cold milk into a saucepan, and place it on the stove. Mix in another vessel 2oz. of powdered sugar with loz. of wheat-flour and Joz. of cornflour ; break in two whole eggs, and beat well together with the whisk for two minutes. When the milk is boiling, add it to the preparation, and after stirring for one minute longer put it into another saucepan, and place it on the stove. Beat well until it comes to a boil; then remove from the fire, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Mix thoroughly again for one minute longer; then pour it into a bowl, and let it get cold. This is used for many confectioners’ purposes. Cream a la Diplomate.—Put loz. of gelatine into 1 teacupful of cold water, and let it soak. Put 1 pint of Cream into a saucepan, and place it over the fire for a few minutes to slightly warm. Whip it, and remove the froth. Then add sufficient milk to the cream that is left to make 1 pint altogether, put in 6oz. of of sugar, and boil up. When it boils, add the gelatine, stirring- well until the latter dissolves ; then strain it through a sieve into a basin in which the whites of four eggs have been previously whipped, and add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring- and 1 tablespoonful of light wine. Stir well, and when it begins to thicken add the whipped Cream and, when thick enough to drop, 1 breakfast-cupful of mixed candied fruit. Put it into a mould on ice, and when quite set turn it out and garnish with angelica leaves, wine-jelly, or fruit. A pint of blanched almonds or pistachio-nuts finely chopped may be used instead of, or as well as, the candied fruit. Cream a la Patissiere.—Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs, and beat the whites to a stiff froth with 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar -, put the yolks of the eggs into a basin with a little less than a teacupful of milk, and beat them well. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a lined saucepan with J table-spoonful of potato-flour and three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of milk; then mix in the beaten yolks of the six eggs, place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until thick; but they must not boil, or the eggs will curdle. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in gradually the beaten whites of the eggs. Dissolve Joz. of gelatine in warm water and strain it into the above mixture; season to taste with any kind of essence, and turn it into a mould. When the Cream is a little cooler, pack the mould in pounded ice and salt until ready to serve. Cream and Ancliovy Toast.—Cut four slices of bread about J,in. in thickness, then cut each into halves and trim off the crusts. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until the blue smoke rises, then put in the pieces of bread and fry them a golden brown. When fried, put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin and mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped olives, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy paste, 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, and 2oz. of butter. Season to taste with cayenne pepper and mushroom ketchup. Stand the basin in a saucepan Cream—continued. with hot water to about three-parts its height, place it over the fire, and stir the contents until thick. Put the squares of fried bread on a dish, pour the contents of the basin over them, and leave until cold. Skin and bone five or six anchovies, Fig. 561. Cream and Anchovy Toast. and divide each into four fillets; whip J pint of Cream to a stiff froth, and pile it on the top of the anchovy mixture when quite cold. Lay the fillets of anchovies lightly on the top of the Cream, and serve (see Pig. 561). Cream -with Barley (Creme d'Org-e).—Put 1 pint each of milk and water into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of pearl barley, and boil until the latter is soft. Bub the barley through a fine sieve, and mix in with it 1 pint of Cream, 2oz. of butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, two whole eggs well whisked, and a quarter of a grated nutmeg. Put this mixture into the saucepan again, and place it on the fire to simmer gently for an hour, stirring continually. It may be either served in glasses or baked in a dish; in either case from three to four more eggs will be required. Cream Biscuits. — (1) Put Jib. of flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre and work in J teacupful of Cream, the whites of three eggs, loz. of sugar, a wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of salt. When quite smooth, roll the paste out very thin, cut it into rounds with a cutter 2in. in diameter, prick them all over with a docker or fork, put them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a sharp oven until done. Turn them out, let them get cold, and rise as desired. (2) Prepare a biscuit dough with 81b. of flour, Joz. of butter, 12oz. of sugar, four eggs, 4oz. of bicarbonate of soda, 2oz. of carbonate of ammonia, Joz. of cream of tartar, 1 teacupful of water, and sufficient oil of lemon to flavour. Work this into a soft dough with Cream. When well kneaded, roll it out to the required thickness and cut it out into shapes ; drop those for a minute into boiling water, then put them into cold water, and drain on a cloth. Put them on a baking-sheet, at a little distance apart, and bake them in a moderate oven. (3) Beat up the yolks of six eggs with 6oz. of powdered white sugar, and when they are well beaten together add and beat in gradually 6oz. of flour. Beat the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in with the beaten yolks, sugar and flour; add then J breakfast-cupful of whipped Cream, and stir it in very carefully and gently. Pour this mixture into moulds, and bake. (4) Mix the yolks of six eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar; add a tiny pinch of salt. Beat the above ingredients well, sifting- in at the same time sufficient flour to make a stiff batter ; then add the well-whipped whites of the six eggs and 1 teacupful of whipped thick Cream. Make some small paper cases, fill them with the above mixture, dust some caster sugar on the tops, and put them in a moderate oven. In a quarter-of-an- hour’s time take the cases of biscuits out, put them on a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper on a hot di-h, and serve them as quickly as possible. Cream Buckets.—Prepare a soft almond paste, and spread it in a rather thick layer upon a long-shaped baking-sheet that has been waxed and floured, and bake it. When cooked, cut ’ the paste into strips about 3in. wide, and long enough to enclose the bucket-models. Shape rounds to fit the models, cut the edg-es of the strips slantwise in the. same direction, lay on the bottom rounds, and roll the strips round the models (blocks of wood) made for this purpose ; fasten with icing- sugar, and trim carefully, keeping in form with paper fastened round the paste, and leave till the paste is cold. Remove the blocks, and solder the joins with a support ofTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 464 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. paste, fastening with icing sugar. Fix on tha tops of the buckets little handles made with the same paste, and pierced through; surround the bodies of the buckets with two or three thin strips for hoops, fix them on the centre of a dish, and, when ready to serve, fill them with whipped Cream (see Fig. 562). Cream with Burnt Sugar.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar into a small saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of water, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the burnt sugar, flavouring to taste with orange-flower or rose-water. Stir the milk over the fire and boil for eight or ten minutes, then move it to the side ; beat the yolks of four eggs, and stir them gradually into the above ingredients. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and fill some small cups with it; stand them in a stewpan with hot water to three-parts their height, and leave them at the side of the fire until the Cream is thick. Take the cups out of the stewpan, dust caster sugar over them, and when a little cooled, stand them on ice. In lialf-an-hour’s time they will be ready for serving. Cream Cakes.—(1) Grease well with butter eight jelly-cake tins, and have a hot oven ready, so that the cakes may be put into it as quickly as possible when they are mixed. Mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour with 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar, and rub them together; put 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of cream of tartar on a plate, with the back of a spoon rub out the lumps, and mix them with the sugar and flour. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, and drop in and mix, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs ; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir this into the batter. Put an equal portion of batter in each of the eight cake-tins, and bake in the oven for seven minutes. While the cakes are in the oven, put 1 pint of milk and 1 teaspoonful of salt into a saucepan, and let it boil; beat two eggs very light, stir into them 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 4 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. When the milk boils, take it from the fire, let it cool for a minute, then pour it over the mixture of eggs, flour, and sugar, stir together, and pour back into the saucepan ; keep stirring, and let it boil for one minute. Take the saucepan from the fire, and diop into it twelve drops of essence of almonds. Take the cakes from the tins, put them on a dish one on top of the other, with a layer of Cream from the saucepan between them, sprinkle a little powdered white sugar over the top, and serve. (2) Butter well some small cup-tins; put 3 teacupfuls of flour, 3 teacupfuls of sugar, and Jib. of butter into a basin, and rub the butter ar.d sugar into the flour with the hands ; when thoroughly mixed, take * teaspoonful of cream of tartar and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, put them on a plate, rub them quite smooth with the back of a spoon, then mix them with the flour, &c., in the basin. Beat three eggs till they are very light, add to them 1 tea- cupful of sour Cream and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; when this is well mixed together, add it to the dry ingredients, and mix quickly and thoroughly. Then half fill the buttered tins, and bake in a rather quick oven for ten minutes. (3) Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan with 4oz. of caster sugar, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 pint of Cream. Place the ingredients over the fire until beginning to boil, then move the saucepan to the side, and take out the lemon-peel. Stir in gradually snflflcient Cream—continued. flour to form a stiff paste, then put it over the fire again, and continue stirring for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a basin, and mix in gradually, one at a time, as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers. Put the paste on a pastry-slab, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, and mould them into round cakes. Lay the cakes a short distance from each other on floured baking- sheets, and bake in a brisk oven. (4) Sift lib. of flour on to a paste-board, and make a well in the centre, in which put a small quantity of salt and i pint of clotted Cream; work the flour in gradually with the Cream until all is mixed, then cover the dough with a cloth, and let it stand for half-an-hour. Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it until creamy, then work it into the paste ; fold and roll the paste out five times, as for puff paste, then with a tin cutter, about ljin. in diameter, cut the paste into small cakes. Lay them on floured baking- sheets, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of eggs to glaze them, and bake in a brisk oven. (5) Beat well together 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 2 break- fast-cupfuls of sugar, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Cream. Pour into square tins, and bake in a quick oven; when done, take them out; and when cold, cut into squares. (C) Put 1 teacupful of butter into J pint of hot water in which J teaspoonful of salt has been dissolved, add 1J breakfast-cupfuls of flour when boiling, and stir for five minutes; allow it to cool, then add five eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and mix with the hand. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop the mixture on it in table-spoonfuls at a little distance from 'each other. Bake until they are brown and nicely puffed, which will take about thirty minutes. When cool, split them, and fill with sweet Cream. (7) Separate the yolks and whites of eight eggs; put the whites in a basin with 8oz. of caster sugar, and beat them well, then add the grated rind of one lemon. Spread a sheet of white paper over a baking-tin, and drop the mixture on it in small quantities, allowing a short space between them; sift caster sugar over them, and put in a moderate oven. When lightly coloured, take the cakes out of the oven, mask the bottom of each with a small quantity of raspberry jam, and stick them together in twos. Put the Cakes in a cool oven to dry, then take them out, and serve. (8) Put 11b. of sifted flour in a basin, and make a round bay or well in the centre ; warm Jib. of butter, put it into the flour with three eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of Cream, 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and. 1 teaspoonful of salt; work all the ingredients together until well mixed. Divide the paste into small quantities, and give them any shape preferred; lay the cakes on a buttered baking-tin, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, put them in the oven, and bake till delicately coloured. Arrange the cakes in a pyramid on a dish that has been covered with a lace-edged dish-paper, dust them with caster sugar, and serve. (9) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan, and set it over the fire until melted; then mix in a little over lib. of flour, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Mix J pint of water gradually in with the browned flour, and continue stirring over the fire until -reduced to a paste; then trrrn it into a basin, and leave until cold. Mix eight or nine eggs with the paste, and knead it with the hands until soft; then divide it into small equal- sized pieces, and mould them into round cakes. Lay the cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, make a dent in the centre of each with the tip of the finger, and bake in a moderate oven until of a light golden colour. When cooked, take the cakes out of the oven, put a small quantity of clotted Cream in the hollow of each, arrange them on a dish that has been covered with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (10) Sift lib. of flour on to a pastry-slab, and make a bay in the centre, in which put 1 teaspoonful of salt, the whites of six eggs, and the strained juice of two lemons. Stir the above ingredients until well mixed, then knead the mix- ture to a soft paste with the hands, dipping them occasionally in olive oil or warmed butter; divide the paste into small equal-sized pieces, then roll them out. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot, put in the cakes, and fry them until nicely browned. As the cakes are cooked, put themTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 465 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. on a sieve, so that all the fat may run from them. Have a saucepan of boiling syrup by the fire, and as the cakes are drained, immerse them in it; take them out immediately. Lay half of them on a baking-dish, one over the other, mask them with a thick layer of clotted Cream, and cover with the remaining pieces of paste. Moisten them with f pint of milk, stand the tin over a slow fire, and let the milk boil until the cakes are soft. Pour a few drops of essence of rose-water over them, dust with powdered cinna- mon, and serve. Cream Candy (Marbled).—Put over the fire lib. of white sugar, 1 gill of cold water, 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, foz. of butter with a very little bicarbonate of soda rubbed into it (not quite as much as will lie on a threepenny-piece), and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar; stir all together, and boil very fast till it is a thick syrup. Mix 3 dessert-spoonfuls of grated chocolate with 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, flavour with vanilla, put it over the fire in another saucepan, and stir till quite thick; then add pint of the thick syrup. Pour the rest of the syrup on a flat dish, and pour over it here and there spoonfuls of the chocolate syrup. As soon as it is cool enough to touch, pull it into ropes with the fingers. If well managed it will be streaked white and brown. Cream Caramel.—(1) Take 2 handfuls of caster sugar, put it into a sugar-boiler, and put the pan on a very slow fire until the sugar becomes a dark colour; then pour it into the bottom of a charlotte-mould, and let it get cool. Take seven or eight eggs, and put them into a kitchen basin with two or three more yolks added, mix them well, and add lqt. of milk, lOoz. of caster sugar, and a little lemon flavouring. Let them remain for ten minutes or so, and then pour them into the mould, having previously buttered the sides. Put the mould into a stewpan on a small stand, and pour boiling water round it to about half the height of the mould. Place the pan on the fire, and boil the water up once; then take it off, and leave it at the side of the fire so as to keep the heat in, without boiling. Then put the cover on the pan, pile hot ashes on it, and let the mixture poach for an hour. Let the Cream cool, and turn it out on to a dish. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, about lin. of stick cinnamon, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and a small quantity of coriander-seeds into a sauce- pan, and let all these simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Boil ^Ib. of sugar in ^ tumblerful of water till it is a dark brown, then take it from the fire, and stir into the Cream ; put the Cream over the fire again till the sugar is thoroughly mixed with it, and strain into the dish in which it is to be served. Then stand it in a saucepan of hot water over some hot ashes, cover the saucepan closely, put fire over the lid, let it boil till the Cream is set, and serve while it is hot. Cream witli Chocolate.—Put 4oz. of the best chocolate into a saucepan with 2oz. of caster sugar and J teacupful of water, place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until the chocolate has thoroughly dissolved; then stir in gradually lj pints of milk, and boil it for eight Fig. 563. Cream with Chocolate. or ten minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the white of one ; take the milk, &c., off the fire, and mix in the beaten eggs, stirring well; then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Pill some small Cream-cups with the mixture (see Fig. 563), and place them in the bain-marie or a stewpan with hot water to three-parts their height. When the Cream Cream—continued. thickens, take the cups out of the pan, dust them over with caster sugar, and when cooled a little, place them on ice until wanted for use. Cream flavoured with Cinnamon.—(l) Put 2oz. of caster sugar into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, and add |oz. of cinnamon broken in pieces; place the pan on the fire and boil for fifteen minutes. In the meantime beat up the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and while the Cream, &c., is boiling, pour them in; boil gently for a minute or two longer, strain it on a dish, sprinkle a little sugar over, and add a little orange-flower water; salamander it to give a light 'brown colour, and serve. (2) Put fib. of sugar into a stewpan with 1J pints of Cream, the yolks of eight eggs, and a large stick of cinnamon slightly bruised; place the pan over a good fire, and stir continually until the mixture begins to thicken, then pass it through a strainer into a basin, put on the ice, and freeze it. It is then ready for use. (3) Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of potato-flour into a basin with 1 toaspoonful of ground cinnamon and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar ; beat four eggs with 1 pint of milk, then stir it in gradually with the above ingredients. Pour the mixture into either a plain or fluted mould, then stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil gently. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. When cooked, take the mould out of the saucepan, and leave it until cooled, then place it in a bowl, surround it with broken ice and salt, and leave until wanted for serving. Dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents at the sides, wipe it, then turn the Cream on to a fancy dish. Cream flavoured with Coffee.—(1) Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs ; put the yolks in a basin with 4oz. of caster sugar, whip them well, then mix in sufficient strong fresh-made coffee to flavour. Put 1 pint of milk in a sauce- pan over the fire until on the point of boiling, then stir it in gradually with the beaten eggs. Strain the mixture through a fine wire sieve, and pour it into Cream-cups. Put them in a stewpan, with boiling water to three-parts their height (not more, or it will enter the cups and spoil the Cream), and boil gently until the Cream is firm, with the exception of a little spot in the middle. When cold, turn the Cream out of the cups on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of eight eggs with Jib. of caster sugar and sufficient strong fresh-made coffee to flavour. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire until boiling, then stir it in gradually with the beaten eggs, mixing all thoroughly. Put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of pulverised sugar in a mould, place it over a slow fire, and as the sugar melts and browns, turn the mould about to give the whole of the interior a good coating. Pour the Cream into the mould, stand it in a pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and let it simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour. At the end of that time, put the pan with the mould into a brisk oven, and finish cooking. When cooked, turn the Cream carefully out of the mould on to a dish, and leave it until cold before serving. Cream Cuite.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then break in two eggs and beat all well. Stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, place the saucepan over a moderate fire, and continue stirring the mixture until thick, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle. Flavour the Cream to taste with any kind of essence, leave it until cold, when it will be ready for use. It is generally used for filling confectionery or cakes. Cream Flawn.— (1) Put four eggs into a basin with 4 table- spoonfuls of flour and the same quantity of sugar, mix well, and pour in 1 pint of milk ; strain this through a sieve into a saucepan, adding a lump of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped almonds, and a small pinch of salt. Place it over the fire and stir until it becomes thick. Let it boil for a few minutes, then remove from the fire and add 3oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of lemon sugar. Take a flawn-mould, butter it well, line it with a little short-paste, and pour in the Cream mixture, which must be cool. Put the flawn into a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. When done, turn it out of the mould and let it get cool; mask it first with orange marmalade, and then with some sugar icing; or it may be masked with a meringue, when the surface must be decorated 2 qTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 466 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. and the meringue dusted over with finely-powdered caster sugar, and put in the oven to colour slightly. (2) Put 3joz. of sugar into a basin with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, and add four eggs, one at a time. Moisten with 1 pint of milk and strain through a sieve, then add a little lemon flavouring, and stir over the fire for two minutes. Take a flawn-mould (see Flawns), butter it well, and line with some puff paste rolled quite thin, and pour in the mixture. Place the mould in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes to bake. When the preparation begins to set, put some paper over the top. When it is done, remove the paper, sprinkle a little sugar over, take away the mould, and it is ready for use. (3) Russian.—Take a flawn-mould and line it with some trimmings of puff paste, and cover the bottom to half the height of the mould with a layer of vanilla-Cream frangipane, place a round of paper over this, and put it into a moderate oven until the paste is nearly done ; then take it out, remove the paper, and cover over with a layer of raspberry marmalade that has been through a sieve. Cover this again with another layer of frangipane until the mould is quite full. Cover over the sur- face slightly with some crushed macaroons, then a little sugar, and put it back into the oven for ten minutes longer. Cream Fritters.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of flour into a basin with an equal quantity of pounded macaroons, a few dried orange- flowers that have been browned in sugar, 2oz. of finely-shred candied lemon-peel, and one or two small lumps of sugar. Beat the yolks of nine eggs, mix them with £ pint of milk and \ pint of Cream, and stir in gradually with the other ingre- dients, then add the beaten whites of three eggs. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick and boiling. Pour the mixture into a well-floured dish, dredge flour over it, and leave it until cold. Cut the paste into small pieces, roll them round, put them in a frying-pan with some hot butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the fritters, arrange them on a hot dish over Which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and dust over with caster sugar. Serve while hot. (2) Grate Jib. of sponge biscuits in a basin; beat the yolks of four eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of milk or Cream, then mix all the ingredients together. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and, when boiling, throw in the fritters with a knife from a plate. When nicely browned, strain the fritters on a slice, then arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish; sift some caster sugar and squeeze some orange-juice over them, and serve. Cream for Fruit Pies.—Put 1 pint of milk into a stewpan with the rind of a lemon and a little cinnamon. In the mean- time take the yolks of two eggs and whisk them well with 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, and put them into a stewpan. Put the pan containing the milk on to the fire and let it simmer, and just as it boils add it gradu- ally to the eggs, putting the pan containing them over the fire and whisking until of the consistence of Cream ; then take it off the fire, and as it gets a little cool put in 1 table-spoonful of orange- or rose-flower water. Let it get quite cold. Remove the crust from a fruit pie and pour in the Cream, replacing the crust. Some cooks cut it into quarters, but it is not required. Great care must always be taken not to let the Cream boil, as it soon curdles. Cream Glazed.—(1) Take Jib. of sugar and J pint of water, put them into a stewpan, and boil until the syrup forms into a ball when rubbed between the thumb and finger. Take the whites of three eggs, whisk them well up, and pour in the syrup, and continue to beat until the mixture is stiff and cold. Stir it into any frozen Cream made with a little less than the usual quantity of sugar. Glaze as for No. 2. (2) Put the yolks of six or seven eggs into a basin, and mix them up well with 1 table-spoonful of flour or ground rice and Jib. of caster sugar. Moisten this with 1J pints of milk, and strain it through a sieve into a saucepan. Put it over the fire and stir until it is thick and nearly boiling; then remove it to the side, and mix in the thin rind (zest) of a lemon. Pour this into a basin and let it get cool, constantly stirring- it. Take out the zest, pour the Cream into a deep dish, dust it over with sifted sugar,' and, Cream—continued. in order to glaze it, put it in the oven or brown it with a salamander. If it is required to be marbled, little spots of caramel must be dropped all over it at a little distance from one another, so as to form a marbling. This Cream may be flavoured with either vanilla or orange-blossoms. Cream Ice.—(1) The sort of Cream ice usually made is composed of milk and a small proportion of Cream, with eggs and sugar added to it. Dissolve Jib. of sugar in lqt. of milk, place it over the fire, and let it heat to the Fig. 564. Cream Ice Freezer. boiling-point. In the meantime beat three eggs to a cream, pour the boiling milk into them, return to the fire, and stir until it begins to thicken. Then remove it from the fire, stir until it is smooth, flavour, and let it cool. When it is cool, freeze it in the freezer (see Fig. 564). (2) Beat the whites of four eggs light and mix them in a pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, previously moistened with a little cold water. Put 3qts. of milk in a saucepan and boil it, then pour it over the eggs. Put the pan on the fire and stir until its contents thicken a little. Let it get cold. When it is cold, add lqt. of Cream, any flavouring that may be desired, and sweeten to taste. Put it into a freezer until wanted for use. Cream Ice with Filberts.—Roast Jib. of filberts in a frying-pan or oven; boil 3oz. of sugar to the caramel (see Sugar-boiling), then mix the roasted filberts with it; agitate the mixture, brush a baking-sheet lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in oil, pour the mixture on it, and leave it to harden. Pound it coarsely. Pour lqt. of thin Cream into a saucepan, add 9oz. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, add the well- beaten yolks of eight eggs, continue stirring till thick, then put in the pounded filberts. Pour the Cream into a basin, leave it to cool, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot and freeze it. Cream Jelly with. Fruit.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in J pint of milk for four hours. Then scald 1J pints of milk, and pour over it, adding at the same time Jib. of powdered white sugar. Stir over the fire till nearly boiling-, then strain, and divide into two equal parts. Put one half in a saucepan over the fire, and stir into it the beaten yolks of three eggs ; stir till it begins to thicken, then pour it into a basin, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and beat up, hut not with the whites of the eggs, 1 pint of rich Cream to a stiff froth. Divide the frothed white of egg into two separate heaps. As the white gelatine begins to set, whip into it gradually one-half of the white-of-egg froth in small quantities, alternately with all the whipped Cream. Into the yellow gelatine whip in by degrees and in small quantities the other half of the frothed white of egg. Then stir into the yellow gelatine a flavour-467 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. ing of vanilla, and to the white gelatine the strained juice of a lemon. Wet the inside of a deep, fluted mould with cold water, lay in the bottom of it a row of crystallised cherries, then pour in a layer of white gelatine ; let it set, and put over it a layer of slices of crystallised apricots or peaches, pour over them a layer of the yellow gelatine, then a border of cherries, then white gelatine, and so on alter- nately till the mould is filled. Set the mould on ice, and when quite firm, dip a cloth in hot water, wring it out, wrap it round the mould for an instant, and turn it out on a glass dish. Serve Cream with it. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of preserved raspberries, the same quantity of preserved strawberries, and the same of red-currant jelly, with as much Cream as will nearly fill a quart mould. Rub the mixed Cream and preserves through a sieve. Soak and dissolve foz. of isinglass in £ pint of hot water; when this is nearly cold, stir it into the Cream, mixing all well together, and pour it into the mould. Put it in an ice-closet or other cold place, let it stand all night, and turn it out the following day. Cream flavoured with Lemon.— Put 1 pint of milk and the thinly-pared yellow rind of a small lemon into a sauce- pan, place it over a slow fire, and boil for five minutes. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a basin, with the yolks of four eggs, and beat them well, then stir in gradually the boiling milk, removing the lemon-peel. Pour the Cream into small cups, stand them in a flat stewpan with boiling water to half their height, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. If the water comes above the half of the cups, it is likely to enter them and spoil the Cream. Leave the Cream until cold, then turn it out of the cups on to a dish, and serve. Cream Meringues.—(1) Take the whites of six eggs, and whip them to a white froth, and until they are very light and dry; then mix in |lb. of caster sugar quickly but gently. Take some paraffin-paper, and spread it over three boards, about 9in. by 12in. in measurement; next with a spoon take the mixture out and drop it in oblong shapes on to the paper, say about twelve on each piece. Put them into a warm place or closet to dry for two hours ; then take them from the board, and remove the soft part with a spoon. In the meantime take 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream, and season it with 1 table-spoonful of wine or a little vanilla, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Whip it until it becomes a stiff froth, then fill the shells with it, and join them together. These meringues must not be exposed to any very great heat, or they will spoil. (2) Have ready a large thick board, which will go into the oven, covered with glazed letter-paper. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and gently mix with them £lb. of pulverised sugar, taking care not to break down the eggs; work very quickly and lightly, and as soon as the sugar is incorporated with the eggs, heap the meringue so made upon the paper, either in two large mounds or in an even number of small ones, and push the board containing them into a very slow oven, where the meringues will dry out rather than bake. If the oven is too hot, leave the door open, and shift the board frequently, so that the heat may affect the meringues evenly. When they are light brown, cool them a little, take them off the paper, turn them over on the hand, and, without breaking, take out the soft centre, and press the rest back with the bowl of a spoon to form a hollow shell; dust the inside with powdered sugar, lay the shells, bottom upwards, on clean paper on the board, and place in a cool oven to dry. Meanwhile, either prepare whipped Cream to fill them, or make an Italian Cream, as follows: dissolve lfoz. of isinglass over the fire in 1 gill of hot water, and keep it hot enough to remain liquid ; prepare 1 pint of whipped Cream; put in a thick saucepan over the fire 1 pint of Cream, the yolks of eight raw eggs, ^lb. of macaroons, Jib. of powdered sugar, and 1 wineglassful of curaijoa; stir these ingredients constantly until they begin to thicken, then take them off the fire, and beat in the dissolved isinglass. While the Cream is still liquid enough to run through a wire sieve, strain it; after straining, mix in very gently the pint of whipped Cream, reserve enough of an Italian Cream to fill the meringues, and pour the rest into a mould to be Cream— continued. cooled and iced ; serve the cold Italian Cream with a border of whipped Cream. Cream Meringues, Iced.—Prepare some meringues as for Cream Meringues, and when they are done and filled with whipped Cream and closed together, take them up on a fork, and dip them in transparent icing. Cream Meringues, Iced with Preserves.—These are pre- pared the same as for Cream Meringues, Iced, with the exception of being masked on the inside with any kind of preserve before the whipped Cream is added. Cream with Orange.—Put the thinly-pared rind of an orange in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and place it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a basin with the yolks of four eggs, and beat them well; then, while still beating, pour in by degrees the boiling milk. Strain the whole through a fine hair sieve, fill small cups with it, and stand them in a pan with boiling water to three-parts their height. Keep simmering at the side of the fire until the Cream thickens. Take the cups out of the water, leave them until slightly cooled, then stand them on ice until wanted for serving. Cream Pancakes.- -Make a batter with the whites of three eggs and the yolks of four; put them into a basin, and whisk them well, then add 1 teacupful of Cream, a little sugar, and enough flour to make the batter ; a piece of butter about the size of an egg may be added with advantage. Put this, in small quantities at a time, into a frying-pan with plenty of boiling fat in it, and fry for about five or six minutes, first one side and then the other, turning when the top is set. When done, take them out, and serve with lemon and caster sugar. Cream Paste flavoured with Coffee.—Put 6oz. of coffee to roast; when it becomes oily, put it into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, cover over the pan, let it remain until nearly cold, and strain through a cloth. A small quantity should now be mixed with the yolks of six eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with a little salt in it, the whole put into a saucepan, and boiled slowly until it is of such a consistence that it adheres to the spoon while being stirred. Add 3oz. of butter very slightly coloured in a sauce- pan, also ilb. of crushed loaf sugar and the same quantity of powdered macaroons; stirring the whole until smooth and compact. Cream Paste flavoured with Lemon.—Prepare a paste in a saucepan with the yolks of six eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; mix in gradually 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling Cream and a little salt, stir well with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture sticks to the spoon, remove from the fire, and work for two or three minutes, or until it is per- fectly smooth, then stir over the fire for ten or twelve minutes longer. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and let it slightly colour, and mix this in with the Cream. Rub 4oz. of sugar on half a rind of lemon, scrape it into the saucepan containing the Cream, and work in 4oz. of powdered sweet macaroons, with a few bitter ones, and stir well until the Cream is stiff. Should it be too thick, add a little more Cream, and if the reverse, add the yolks of one or two eggs. Cream Pie.—(1) Mix |lb. of sugar, lqt. of milk, 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and the yolks of six eggs together, and put them into a saucepan ; season with a little wine, grated nutmeg, vanilla, or lemon, and boil for twenty minutes. Pre- pare some rich pastry, line a shallow dish, bake lightly, and fill up with the Cream, then bake again until quite done.468 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &C., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. Cream—continued. Take some of the whites of the eggs and a little sugar and make a meringue, pour it over the pie, and put it into the 1 hot closet or warm oven to brown lightly. See Pig. 565. (2) Put into a saucepan lqt. of sweet, rich milk, 3 table- | spoonfuls of cornflour or wheat-flour, fib. of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, or 1 teaspoonful of vanilla sugar or extract, and three eggs. Stir well, place the saucepan on the fire, and continue to stir until the mixture thickens. Have ready j a paste crust, baked in any desired shape, pour in the Cream, smooth over the surface, dust over grated nutmeg or powdered | cinnamon, and serve. (3) Beat 6oz. of sugar and 2oz. of butter in a basin to a l cream, stir in four eggs, the juice of an orange and half a lemon, and lastly 3oz. of flour. Pour lqt. of milk into a saucepan, add the mixture when thoroughly incorporated, stir over the fire until it thickens a little, pour it into pans lined with paste, and hake in a quick oven. Turn them out carefully, and serve hot or cold. Cream Plombidre with Bananas.—Peel some ripe bananas, and pass them through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Mix with the fruit puree about If pints of thick vanilla Cream, then pass the whole again through the fine hair sieve. Turn the Cream into a freezer, and leave it till thickened. Whisk 1 pint of Cream with sugar to taste, mix it with the frozen Cream, and add 1 wineglassful of Madeira. Arrange the Cream, rock shape, on a folded napkin, and serve. Cream Pudding (Baked).—(1) Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the rind of a lemon (grated) with six eggs well beaten to a froth. Take lib. of flour, 1 pint of milk, and 2 ! teaspoonfuls of salt, and mix them together. When thoroughly incorporated, add the sugar and eggs. Just before serving, add 1 pint of thick Cream. Pour this into small cups or pudding-dishes, and bake until done. (2) Warm a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, beat it until creamy, then mix in the yolks of four eggs, one at a time, and 4 table-spoonfuls of thick Cream, sift in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them lastly with the other ingredients. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, dredge it with flour, then shake out all that does not adhere to the butter, and pour in the mixture. Put it in a moderate oven to bake. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a folded napkin, or an orna- mental dish-paper, that has been laid on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of fruit sauce. (3) Take lqt. of milk, put 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot into a bowl, blend it smooth with a little of the milk, and add to it 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg; break Jib. of butter into small pieces, and throw them into the bowl. Put what remains of the quart of milk into a saucepan, boil it up quickly, pour it while boiling on to the butter and arrowroot, and stir quickly till the butter is melted. Beat up in another bowl four eggs and 2oz. of sugar till the eggs are very light, then mix all together, pour into a pudding- dish, and bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes. (4) Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 pint of new milk, stir into it fib. of flour, and keep on stirring till it is smooth; then add 1 pint of sour Cream and the beaten yolks of six eggs; now beat up the whites, and stir them in. Bake slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour. For the sauce, beat up fib. of butter till it is white, stir in by degrees fib. of finely-powdered white sugar, continue beat- ing the butter and sugar till it is a Cream, then pile it on a glass dish, grate a little nutmeg over, and serve with the pudding. (5) Boiled.—Put 1 pint of Cream in a saucepan with a blade or two of mace, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and caster sugar to taste. Boil the whole, take out the lemon-peel, put it in a mortar, pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Pour the Cream over the lemon-peel, and leave it till nearly cold, then stir in gradually the well-beaten yolks of six or seven eggs. When the ingredients are well incorporated, turn the mixture into a mould—one with a lid to it, if possible—put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil it over a slow fire for thirty minutes. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and leave till cold. Dissolve some currant jelly, pour it over the pudding, and serve. Cream Puffs.— (1) Slightly warm fib. of butter, and beat it well with fib. of caster sugar, then mix in two eggs. Put lflb. of sifted flour in a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of baking- powder, stir in the beaten mixture, and work until quite smooth. Shape the dough into cakes, and bake them in a brisk oven. Beat two eggs well with 4oz. of caster sugar and 1 pint of milk, then stir them in with fib. of sifted flour. When smooth, turn the mixture into a stewpan, and stir it over a moderate fire until thick. When cooked, cut the cakes in halves, scoop out a little of the soft paste, and fill them with the Cream. Arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and serve. (2) Put If pints of water into a round-bottomed, porcelain- lined pan, set on the fire, bring it to the boil, add 4oz. of butter, and as soon as it is melted stir in rapidly Jib. of flour and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, both sifted together. Remove the pan from the fire, the contents being a stiffish dough, let it cool slightly, work in with the spatula six eggs, adding two at a time, and continue to work until the paste is rather soft. Have ready well-greased baking-tins, and with a table-spoon put the paste in lumps on them, keeping them a little apart; hake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, or until they have a fawn colour. Take them out, let them cool, and open them on one side. In the meantime prepare the following Cream: Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of corn- flour with a little milk, put it into a saucepan with more milk, making the quantity used altogether 1 pint, 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and two eggs. Stir well over the fire until the mixture thickens, flavour with lemon or vanilla essence, let it get cold, fill the cakes with it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (3) Boston.—Put barely fib. of lard or butter into a saucepan with f pint of water and 1 pinch of salt, and boil it. Put in, all at once, with the above mixture fib. of flour, and stir it over the fire till it is cooked to a smooth paste. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and beat in five eggs, one at the time. Slightly grease some baking-sheets, and drop dessert-spoonfuls of the mixture on to them, allowing a space of about tin. between them. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready a pastry Cream prepared in the j. Fig. 66. Boston Cream Puffs. V / - py x '' i t 1 ' X following manner: Boil lqt. of milk with a lump of sugar in it to prevent burning, mix fib. of caster sugar with fib. of flour, then dredge them into the boiling milk, beating it all the while ; stir it for five minutes over the fire, add loz. of butter to the above mixture, beat five eggs, and stir them in. Move the saucepan to the back of the range, put the lid on, and let the contents cook about ten minutes longer. When nearly cold, flavour the Cream with lemon or vanilla. When cooked, cut a slit in the sides of the puffs, and fill them with the Cream (see Pig. 566). The difficulty in making Cream puffs is the baking in the uneven heat of a stove or range. They are nothing if they do not rise round and hollow, and the stove must be slackened down to suit. The more the paste is beaten against the sides of the pan as the eggs are added, and after, the more the puffs will expand in baking. If it can possibly be avoided, the oven door should not be opened during the whole time of baking. (4) French.—Put 1 pint of water into a saucepan with 7oz. of butter and 3oz. of sugar, and boil them. Then add lOoz. of flour, and stir until it becomes a thick paste. Take it off the fire, and mix in six eggs, one at a time, beating it with a spoon against the side of the pan. When the last of the six eggs is about to be put in, add to it 2 teaspoonfuls of extract of vanilla. The more the pasteTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 469 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. is beaten, so much the lighter will the puffs turn out. Take some baking-sheets, grease them, and then wipe clean. Put the paste on in pieces the size of a walnut, giving plenty of room between them, and shape with a knife and spoon; put the sheets into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. The puffs being hollow in the centre, cut them open, and fill with some pastry Cream and fruit jelly. Cream Quenelles. —Put f pint of Cream in a saucepan with loz. of butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of black pepper; give the Cream two or three boils, then stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. Leave the mixture till cold, then stir in, one at a time, enough eggs to convert it into a thin paste, so that it will easily drop from the spoon. Put some water in a flat stewpan over the fire, and when it boils drop in the paste, a tea- spoonful at a time. Poach the quenelles for ten minutes, then drain them, and they are ready for serving. Cream Rockwork.—Put lqt. of milk, or milk and Cream, over the fire in a stewpan, and dissolve in it gib. of sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table- spoonful of powdered white sugar, and when the milk boils, put in this froth, a table-spoonful at a time, and cook in the boiling milk, turning it once. Do not put so many spoonfuls in at once that they will run together. Lift out the spoon- fuls of froth carefully, as they are done, with a skimmer, Fig. 567. -Cream Rockwork. and lay them on a sieve; when all are done, put them in a cool place, still keeping them on the sieve. Beat up the yolks of six eggs, add them to the milk, with a little more sugar, and stir constantly till it begins to thicken, then take it from the fire and let it cool, stirring occasionally. When quite cold, stir into it 1 dessert-spoonful of essence of vanilla, pour it into a deep glass dish or bowl, and pile the cooked froth as rocky as possible (see Fig. 567). Serve sponge cake with it. Cream Salad Dressing.—Take two eggs and beat them well, adding 1 teaspoonful of sugar, ^ saltspoonful of salt, and the same of mustard, next 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and lastly 1 table-spoonful of Cream. Put the basin 01- bowl containing these into another basin of boiling water, and stir until the mixture becomes as thick as rich Cream. The water in the bowl should be kept boiling all the time, and it will then only take about five minutes to finish it. Remove the basin, and let it get cool, when it will be ready for use. See Salads. Cream Sauce.—(1) Put into a saucepan 2oz. of butter and loz. of flour; place it on a slow fire, and with a spatula stir lightly for two minutes, adding 2ot,. of caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and 1 teacupful of Cream. Stir well again for two minutes, to avoid its coming to a boil; take it from the fire, and immediately add 1 wineglassful of rum, stirring it lightly again. Pour the Cream into a sauce-bowl, and serve as required. (2) Beat gib. of butter in a bowl till it is very light ; add gib. of powdered white sugar and g pint of Cream, place the bowl in a basin of hot water, and keep stirring till the contents are creamy—a few minutes ought to be sufficient. (3) Put f pint of Cream into a saucepan, with salt and pepper added to taste; place the pan on the fire, and boil. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of cold Cream Cream—continued. until it becomes a smooth paste, add it to the boiling Cream, boil for three minutes longer, and it is ready for use. (4) Put into a frying-pan 1 table-spoonful of butter, and make it quite hot, but not enough to brown; then stir in 1 teaspoonful of flour until it is quite smooth, and gradually add f pint of milk. Boil it up once, with a little salt and pepper to taste, and it is then ready for use. The butter may be omitted and more Cream irsed, if preferred. (5) Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan. Break into a basin two eggs, add loz. of wheat-flour, g-oz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula. When the milk is boiling, add it gradually to this, stirring continually for two minutes. Return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it comes to a boil; then remove, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. (6) Take pint of bechamel sauce and goz. of butter; beat together thoroughly, and add J breakfast-cupful of sweet Cream. Then serve. (7) Pour 1 pint of Cream into a saucepan, and make it quite hot. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into another pan, place it on the fire, and when the butter begins to bubble stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour. Mix it well, with one- tliird of the cream, stirring till it boils and thickens. Then add more Cream and boil again, and when perfectly smooth stir in the remainder of the Cream, when the sauce should be quite thick, almost like batter. Season with g teaspoonful of salt, the same of celery salt, g saltspoonful of pepper, and a little cayenne, and when it is quite thick and hot serve with the fish or meat it is intended to be used with. (8) Take 3oz. of butter and gib. of sugar; work them together till the mixture is quite smooth and white, grate in a little nutmeg, and add and stir in boiling milk till the sauce is of the consistency of thick Cream. Cream Sauce for Venison. —Pour A pint of Cream over the venison when cooked, and catch it in a dish. Strain the Cream into a saucepan, put 1 table-spoonful of chopped, cooked onions in it, and a small lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour; stir the sauce over the fire till boiling and the flour is cooked, then move the pan to the side and mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it till well thickened, but do not let it boil again ; and serve the sauce in a sauceboat with the venison. Fig. 568. Cream Scones. Cream Sauce with Vinegar. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until mixed, but not browned; then pour in gradually g pint of Cream, and continue stirring until thick and boiling. Season the sauce with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, or a sufficient quantity of vinegar to give it an acid flavour, then serve. Cream Scones.—Put g pint of Cream into a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling, sift in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, stirring all the time ; add 1 pinch of salt. Roll the paste out on a floured board to about gin. in thickness, and cut into rounds with a circular tin cutter. Put a griddle over a clear, brisk fire, and when hot lay the scones on it; when browned one side, turn them, and brown the other. They will take from ten to twelve minutes to cook. Put the scones on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. See Fig. 568. Cream Shape-Pudding.—Mix 1 teacupful of ground rice with 1 pint of Cream till quite smooth; stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling, then add 1 teacupful of caster sugar and a piece of butter about the size of an egg. Continue stirring, and boil the mixture till thick. Move the mixture470 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. off the fire, leave it till cool, then stir in the beaten yolks of six eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and loz. of mixed blanched and pounded sweet and bitter almonds. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the above mixture, line the sides of a mould with strips of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the pudding to settle for a minute, then turn it carefully out on to a hot dish, sift some caster sugar over, and serve. Cream Sherbet.—Beat loz. of caster sugar into 1 pint of Cream and the whites of six eggs previously beaten to a stiff froth. Dissolve another ounce of caster sugar in 3qts. of water, and pour this upon four lemons thinly sliced; mix well with the other, strain, and put it into a freezer until ready for serving. Cream with Sherry.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a stewpan with 1 pint of Cream and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Put the pan on the fire, and let the Cream simmer for about an hour; then let it cool, and add 1 large wineglassful of sherry (or Marsala). Pass through a fine sieve into glasses, and sprinkle a little cinnamon on the top of each. Cream Souffles.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of flour into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until it is well mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of Cream, and continue stirring until it boils. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy; then beat in gradually the yolks of ten eggs and 3oz. of vanilla sugar. Whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them with the other eggs into the cooled mixture. Thickly butter the interior of a souffle-mould, and strew it over with breadcrumbs, shaking out the superfluous ones ; pour in the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper- over the top. Stand the mould in a saucepan, pour round it boiling water to three-parts its height, taking care not to let any go in the mould, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When the souffle is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Cream Strudels.—(1) Put 7oz. of flour, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 2oz. of butter into a stewpan on the fire; stir in gradually 1 pint of Cream, and continue stirring until cooked. Remove the pan, stir until nearly cold, and mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Put 1 pint of milk and a stick of vanilla into another stewpan, and place over the fire to boil. Divide the mixture into pieces about the size of a walnut, roll them out to about 2in. in length, and put into the Cream, and boil for five minutes. Take them out of the Cream, and put them on a sieve to drain. Boil the Cream until reduced to half the quantity, mix the beaten yolks of four eggs into it, and sweeten to taste. Place the strudels on a buttered dish, pour the custard over them, and bake in a moderate oven until evenly glazed. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauce- boatful of vanilla Cream sauce. (2) Prepare a strudel-paste with the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, a small quantity of salt, and sufficient flour to form a stiff dough. When well kneaded, divide the dough into small, equal-sized quantities, shape them into balls, and roll out as thinly as possible to an oval shape. Spread a thick layer of sour Cream over each of them, and dust with a small quantity of salt; then roll them over, lay them on a buttered baking-dish, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top of each, and set them in the oven. When they have risen, and are just beginning to brown, baste with a few table- spoonfuls of boiling milk, and finish cooking them. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Cream Syrup.—(1) Put i pint each of fresh Cream and milk into a bottle with lib. of powdered loaf sugar, and shake them well together. The addition of a few grains of bicarbonate of soda will prevent souring. Keep in a cool place. (2) Dissolve by gentle heat lib. of caster sugar in J pint of fresh milk, and when cool, stir in i pint of rich Cream. Cream Tart.-—Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan, flavour it with vanilla, place it over the fire, stir in gradually 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of the finest sifted flour, sweeten to tajjste Cream—continued. with caster sugar, and continue stirring over the fire till thick. When ready, move the Cream to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of six eggs, taking care to keep the mixture smooth and free from lumps. Rub ^lb. of butter in lib. of flour till quite smooth, and add the beaten yolk of one egg and sufficient milk or milk-and-water to make a stiff paste. Dust a little flour over the table, roll the paste out, stick about 2oz. of butter over it in little pieces, fold it over, roll out again, stick over with more butter, fold in three, and leave for half-an-hour to rise. Beat the paste with a rolling-pin, stick it again with butter, dust over with flour, roll it out, fold over, and again leave for half-an-hour ; then beat the paste again with the rolling-pin, dust it over with a little more flour, and roll it out. Butter a tart-dish, line it with the paste, and pour in the prepared Cream, using the trimmings of the paste to make a rim to the tart and strips across. Brush the paste over with a feather or a fine brush dipped in the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick oven. Serve either hot or cold. Cream Tartlets.—(1) Line some small tartlet-pans with rich paste, and bake. When done and quite cold, fill them with some whipped Cream, put a little jelly in the centre of each, and serve. (2) Butter a dozen tartlet-moulds, line them with some short paste, fill with apple marmalade, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, mask with some apricot marmalade, and over that put some well-whipped vanilla Cream. With a knife or spatula smooth this over, and make it into a pyramidical shape. Cream flavoured, -with Tea (Creme du The).—(1) Soak |oz. of gelatine in | pint of milk for four hours; add |lb. of loaf sugar, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of very good, hot tea. When the gelatine and sugar are quite dissolved, strain the preparation through fine muslin and let it cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and when the gelatine mixture is quite cold, beat it in by degrees to the frothed whites of the eggs, and whip in 1 pint of rich Cream that has been beaten to a froth. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and stand it in ice for eight or ten hours; then turn out on to a glass dish, and serve Cream with it. (2) Beat the yolks of eight eggs with jib. of caster sugar, and mix in sufficient freshly-made, strong tea to flavour. Put lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten eggs. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve, fill small cups with it; stand them in the bain-marie, and keep simmering gently at the side of the fire for ten minutes. At the end of that time put the pan and cups into a moderate oven, and bake for a quarter-of-an-hour. When the Cream is firm, take the cups out of the pan, leave until cooled, and stand them on ice until ready to serve. Cream Toasts.—(1) Cut some slices of bread ^in. thick, and trim off the crust. Have ready on the range a bowl half full of boiling water, with loz. of butter in it; toast the slices of bread a pale brown, and as each slice is done, dip it in the boiling water and butter for a second, sprinkle with a little salt, and lay it in a deep, hot dish (the one in which it is to be served). Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan over the fire, thicken with loz. of cornflour (or less, if Cream Fig. 569. Cream Toasts. is mixed with the milk), stir in 2oz. of butter, let it simmer till all the toast is ready, and stir into it the whites of three eggs (which should have been beaten to a stiff froth before the bread was cut). Let this just come to a boil, and pour it over the toast, lifting the slices one by one to let the mixture run in between them (see Pig. 569). Cover the471 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. dish closely, and put it in the oven for two or three minutes before serving. (2) Cut up half-a-dozen stale Trench rolls into slices, and into slips lin. by 2jin. long, put them on a dish, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of Cream and 1 teacupful of milk, and dust over the top some cinnamon sugar. Let the bread soak well in the Cream, then dip in egg, pop them into a frying- pan with boiling oil or butter, and fry for ten minutes, or until they are a light brown colour. Serve on a folded napkin after allowing them to drain. Cream Toffy.—Put 4j-lb. of sugar into a saucepan with lqt. of rich Cream or milk, boil to the ball degree (see Sugar- boiling), add lOoz. of butter, and stir well until the latter is dissolved and thoroughly incorporated. Boil to the crack degree, turn it out on to a buttered marble slab, and when sufficiently cool turn in the edges, cut it up into the required shapes, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. Cream Trifle.—(1) Sweeten lqt. of Cream with powdered white sugar, and add to it the grated peel of a lemon. Put 1 gill of white wine into a bowl, pour over the sweetened Cream, and whisk to a froth, which as it is formed lay to drain on a sieve turned upside down; return the Cream that drains from it to the bowl, and whisk it to froth. Take a deep glass dish, and at the bottom of it put a layer of the frothed Cream ; cut some Naples biscuits as thin as possible, arrange a layer of them lightly over the froth, and put some red currant jelly over; then begin again with the froth, put over it biscuits sliced as before, red currant jelly next, and finish with a layer of froth. Pour what may remain of the Cream gently into the dish, and garnish with some candied orange- and citron-peel cut into thin shreds. (2) Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and stir in gradually 1J- pints of milk. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of best wheat-flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the grated peel of one lemon; stir the beaten eggs and milk in with this, pour all into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire. Put idb. of small ratafias at the bottom of a shallow dish, and when the Cream is sufficiently boiled pour it through a fine hair sieve upon the cakes. When cold, dust some finely- powdered cinnamon over the top, and serve. Cream a la Versailles.—Put 1 teacupful of sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and stir gently until it is of a light brown. Pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of water, stir for a minute, and mix in lqt. of milk. Add ^ teaspoonful of salt, beaten up with seven eggs, and ^ teaspoonful of vanilla extract; turn the whole into a charlotte-russe mould, after slightly buttering it, set it in a pan of warm water, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Push a knife down the centre to test it, and if the custard is not milky, it is done. Put it in a cool place, let it remain until quite cold, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with caramel sauce poured over. Cream Whey.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of skimmed milk into a saucepan, make it hot without boiling, add 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and let it remain until it curdles; then strain the milk through muslin into a bowl, add 2 table-spoonfuls of Cream, and sugar to taste, and serve. Cream Whips.—Put 1 pint of Cream into a bowl or basin, and mix in with it J- pint of pale sherry, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 1 teacupful of sugar, and the whites of two eggs lightly beaten. When the sugar is dissolved, whip the mixture well, skim off the froth, and put it on a sieve for a few minutes. Take the Cream left in the bowl and put it into jelly glasses, and fill up with the froth. Cream with White Wine.—Put the thinly-pared rind of one lemon into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and a small quantity of coriander seeds; pour in lj pints of white wine, and boil the mixture for fifteen minutes. Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin with \ teaspoonful of flour, and beat them well; then stir in gradually the boiling wine. Leave the mixture until half cold, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a mould. Place the mould in a stewpan three-quarters full of boiling water, stand it over a slow fire, and let it simmer gently until the Cream has set; then take the mould out of the water, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn the Cream out of the mould on to a dish. Cream—continued. Devonshire Cream.—Put some new milk into a Cream-pan, and place it on a hot stove, without allowing the milk to boil. If left for from twenty minutes to lialf-an-hour, the scum will have risen very considerably, and then the pan should be removed, and the milk left to get cold. When cold, it must be skimmed, and the Cream is ready for use. If butter is to be made from it, although it may be converted by working slowly with a stick or the hand for a few minutes or so, the best and cheapest plan is the churn. But what is generally known as Devonshire Cream is the above put into jars. Devonshire Cream White Pot.—Beat up eight eggs in lqt. of Cream, add a little sugar and nutmeg to flavour, and put the mixture on some thin slices of bread. Place these in a pie-dish, put small pieces of butter on the top, cover the dish over tightly with paper, and bake for about an hour in a moderate oven; or it may be made by merely mixing flour, milk, or Cream, and eggs to a batter, baking slightly, and serving with lemon-juice and sugar. Fairy Cream.—Put l^oz. of gelatine into a basin with lj wine- glassfuls of maraschino, and let it soak. Line a fancy mould with any kind of fruit—such as currants, cherries, or even blanched almonds—by dipping them into the dissolved gelatine, to make them adhere. When they are set, well whip two breakfast-cupfuls of Cream, pour into this 1 wine- glassful of lemon syrup, and the remainder of the gelatine and maraschino, and pour the whole into the mould. Serve at once. Floating1 Islands of Cream.—Put 1 teacupful of jam or jelly into a' basin with the whites of two eggs, and beat them well. Whip 1 pint of Cream, and when well frothed turn & > ^ \,, r ?' "'y -'" ' r. j ; j j t \ { f j J J Fig. 570. Floating Islands of Cream. it into an oval- or round-shaped glass dish. With a table- spoon drop the whipped jelly about on the Cream (see Fig. 570). It is then ready for serving, and makes a really very pretty dish. French Cream Ice.—Boil lqt. of Cream with a long vanilla bean, and then cool and strain it. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs smooth with fib. of sugar, mix the flavoured Cream with the eggs, stir over the fire, take it off directly it begins to thicken, and stir for five minutes; then cool and freeze it. Fried Creams.—Boil in a stewpan 1 pint of milk, with a stick of cinnamon. Beat well together 4oz. of sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of cornflour, 1 table-spoonful of wheat-flour, the yolks of three eggs, i teacupful of Cream, and a saltspoonful of salt, and pour over this the boiling milk. Pass the whole through a strainer into a double-boiler, and boil for a quarter-of-an- hour, stirring frequently; then add 1 teaspoonful of butter and one of vanilla extract, pour it into a buttered cake- tin, put it to cool, and when it is very hard turn it out on to a board sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and cut it into pieces 2|in. long and lin. wide, or into square- or diamond- shaped slices. Roll these first in breadcrumbs, then dip them into egg, roll in the crumbs again, and put them into a frying-pan with boiling lard, and fry to a nice brown colour. Dust sugar over them, and serve hot. German Cream.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Cream into a saucepan with fioz. of sugar and the thin rind of a lemon; bring it to the boil, remove the pan at once from the fire, and let it remain until the contents are nearly cold. Squeeze in the juice of two lemons, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour the whole into a jug, and turn it from one jug to another for about fifteen minutes, by which time it should be ready to be served ; but it should always be made at least twelve hours before being used.472 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. Harlequin. Cream.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour with a small quantity of cold milk until quite smooth, turn it into a saucepan with J a pint of boiling milk, sweeten it with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick and boiling. Binse out a mould with cold water, and pour in the Cream. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a saucepan, mix it smooth with a little cold water, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned-apricot juice, add 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire until thick. Colour the cornflour yellow with a small quantity of saffron dissolved in hot water, and turn it into the mould with the Cream. Prepare more cornflour as last described, sub- stituting red fruit-juice for the apricot, and if not sufficiently coloured using a small quantity of cochineal, and turn it on to the top of the other. Make another lot of cornflour with greengage juice, colour it with spinach green and pour it into the mould with the rest. When quite cold and set, turn the cream out of the mould into a fancy dish, and serve. Harlequin Cream Bars.—Cover the inside of a tin (with edges 2in. deep) with well-greased paper, pour in the required quantity of Cream (prepared as for cream for Chocolate Creams, and flavoured with vanilla), covering the tin to about Jin. thick; let this set, and pour over an equal quantity of the Cream, coloured red and flavoured with raspberry essence, and when this is set pour over more Cream, coloured yellow and flavoured with lemon. Let the cake of Cream thoroughly set, turn it out of the tin, carefully removing the paper, and mask it top and bottom with melted chocolate paste. Put it away to dry and harden, cut it up into bars, and it is ready for use, or it may be packed away in boxes. Imitation Cream.—(1) A fresh egg well beaten up in a basin, and a little hot tea or water poured over it slowly, resembles Cream in flavour and richness. (2) Put | pint of milk into a basin, and beat up with it the yolks of two eggs. Pass this through a sieve into a saucepan and place it on the fire, but do not let it boil; continue stirring, and after a while add 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar to sweeten, and let the mixture cool. It is then ready for use. (3) Put 1 pint of milk and two lumps of sugar into a stewpan, and place it on a slow fire ; when it is warm add the yolks of two eggs, and stir well one way only until quite thick, when it is ready for use. Imperial Cream.—Squeeze the juice of three large oranges into a basin, keeping back the pips, sweeten with 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar, stir until dissolved, and pour it into a glass dish. Put 1 pint of thick Cream into a saucepan, sweeten it with caster sugar, and stir over the fire till just warm. Pour the Cream into a teapot or a similar article, add 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour the Cream slowly on to the juice from as high a position as possible, thus making it curdle and look like honeycomb. Serve the Cream as soon as possible, or it will get flat. Indian Cream (Mallie).—Put any quantity of milk into a saucepan over a slack fire, and boil until it is reduced to rather less than half its original quantity. Let it get cold, and it will be as strong and thick as blanc-mange. All the best sweetmeats made in India have this for an in- gredient. Italian Cream.—(1) Add loz. of gelatine to a hot custard made with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt; put it into the double- boiler, with 1 pint of milk, and place on the fire until it thickens. Well beat the whites of three eggs in a basin, and pour over them the milk and gelatine, which should have been previously strained through a fine sieve. When the ingredients are all properly mixed, add lemon, vanilla, or other flavouring, and pour the mixture into moulds. Then set on ice, or in the cold; turn out when set, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan, with Jib. of ratafias, the grated rind of a lemon, 1 pinch of powdered cinnamon, J gill of curaijoa, sufficient sugar to sweeten, and 1 pint of Cream. Stir this upon the stove to set the egg yolks, then strain it all through a tammy into a basin, and add another I pint of whipped Cream and loz. of dissolved isinglass; Cream—continued. mix well, pour into a mould, and set upon ice to get firm. Garnish with sweet biscuits (see Fig. 571). (3) Put J pint of milk into a saucepan with 1 pint of Cream, and when it boils add the peel of a lemon or orange to infuse with Jib. of sugar and a little salt; let this remain until the flavour is thoroughly imparted to the Cream, then stir in the yolks of eight eggs, beat all well, and put on the fire again to make it of an equal thickness. When thick enough, and the eggs quite done, add a little isinglass that has been melted in water, and pass it all through a fine cloth or tammy. Put a little in a mould to try, and if it sets well it is done ; if not, a little more isinglass must be added. Pour it into a mould when quite ready, and put it on the ice to freeze. If preferred, the Cream may be whipped before it is put into the moulds, and in that case the isinglass must not be added until the Cream is nearly done. When wanted to be served, dip a cloth into warm water, wipe round the sides of the mould, and turn it out. Fig. 571. Italian Cream. (4) Put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of coriander-seeds and a small piece of stick cinnamon, pour in lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, boil until reduced to half the original quantity, and leave until cool. Beat the yolks of six eggs and mix with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring in the boiled milk. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand this in a saucepan of water, and stir over the fire. When the Cream is cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a dish, brown it under a salamander or in a brisk oven, and serve. (5) Break two eggs into a stewpan, and gradually beat in 1 teacupful of thick, rich Cream and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then add a few drops of orange-flower water, and stir the mixture over the fire until thick, without letting it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Pour the Cream into a dish that will bear the heat of the oven and can be served at table, place another dish on the top of that, and pack them in hot ashes. When the Cream has quite set, dredge it with caster sugar, and serve when cool. (6) Put loz. of gelatine into a small saucepan, pour over it 1 teacupful of milk, and let it soak for ten minutes; then put the saucepan over a slow fire, stir till the gelatine is com- pletely melted, and draw the saucepan on one side. Into a larger saucepan put lqt. of good, rich Cream, add to it the grated rind of two lemons, about 2in. of stick cinnamon, and Jib. of sugar; let the Cream boil, and then take it from the fire. Put the yolks of twelve eggs into a large bowl, beat them well, and add the milk and gelatine; pour it all into the saucepan with the Cream, and put it on the fire for three minutes, stirring all the time. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will be spoiled. Take the saucepan from the fire, remove the cinnamon, and continue stirring till quite cool. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the Cream into it, and let it set. When firmly set, turn it out, and serve.473 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, Ace., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Cream—continued. (7) Prepare a Cream with the yolks of eight eggs, lqt. of milk, and nine sheets of gelatine, sweetening it to taste, and flavouring with any kind of essence. Pour it in equal portions into three basins ; colour one a deep red (using cochineal), and another green (using spinach-green): the basins should be kept in the bain-marie while the colouring is being added, and until used. Pack the required shaped mould in ice, pour in the red-coloured Cream to Jin. deep, a similar thickness of the plain Cream, and lastly the green-coloured Cream, letting each layer set before another is added. Con- tinue in this way until the mould is full, or all the ingredients used up; let the whole set as stiff as possible, dip the mould into lukewarm water, turn the Cream out on to a cold dish, and serve. Care must be taken to have the layers of equal thickness, or the effect will be spoilt. Italian Cream Ice.—Put 1J pints of milk or Cream into a stewpan with fib. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, 6oz. of burnt almonds bruised to a pulp, twelve bruised coriander-seeds, three cloves, the rind of two oranges, and a little powdered cinnamon or mixed spice. Put the pan on the fire, stir the mixture until it gets thick, and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin. Pour 1 teacupful of brandy over 6oz. of mixed candied orange-, lemon-, and citron-peel, chopped up fine ; leave this a short time to soak, then add to the other ingredients, and mix them well; pour into a freezer or mould, and when firm, turn it out, and it is ready for use. Light Cream.—Separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs; put the yolks into a lined saucepan with 6 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a little more than J breakfast-cupful of milk, and beat them well. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until thickened, but on no account let them boil, or the eggs will curdle. When ready, flavour the mixture witli a few drops of any kind of essence, and turn it on to a dish until cold. Put the whites of the six eggs into a basin, and beat them to a stiff froth with a wire whisk; continue beat- ing, and mix in at the same time about 3 table-spoon- fuls of the cold mixture. Take the whisk out, put in the remainder of the mixture, and stir it very lightly with a wooden spoon. After the whipping is done the Cream should be stirred as little as possible, or it will become liquid. This Cream can be served as it is, or used for filling Chantilly baskets, &c. Mauritius Cream.—Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a small quantity of milk till smooth, and porn- in quickly 1 pint of boiling milk. Beat the yolks of six eggs to a froth, mix them with the milk and arrowroot, pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire till thick and of a rich yellow colour, taking care not to let it boil, or the eggs will Fig. 572. Mauritius Cream. curdle. Flavour the Cream with 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, and when nearly cold mix J wineglassful of brandy with it, and pour it into a fancy glass dish. Whip the whites of six eggs with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar to a foam, pile it up rockily on the Cream (see Fig. 572), ornament it with pink sugar, and serve. Muscovite Cream.—Put loz. of gelatine into a stewpan with 3 pints of milk, boil until all is dissolved, then add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs and 5oz. of caster sugar. Mix well, boil again until done, pass it through a fine sieve, and let it cool. Put the whites of the four eggs into a bowl, whip them to a stiff froth, and when the Cream is Cream—continued. nearly congealed, beat them into it. Add any flavouring that is desired, and pour into a mould. Put this by on the ice, and use when wanted. Neapolitan Cream.—Mix in a basin 1 table-spoonful each of flour and custard-powder with 1 teacupful of milk; when smooth, turn it into a saucepan with 1 pint of fresh fruit juice, stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon, and boil until thickened, sweetening to taste with caster sugar. Move the Cream to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs; whisk the whites of the two eggs, and stir them lightly in. Pour the Cream into a china bowl, and serve. Neapolitan Cream Ice. —Make 1 pint of vanilla Cream ice, 1 pint of pistachio Cream ice, and l pint of raspberry-water ice. Take a long brick-form mould holding 3 pints, put the raspberry-water ice at the bottom, arrange the vanilla Cream on top, and fill up with the pistachio, and cover tightly. Set the mould on broken ice mixed with rock- salt at the bottom of a pail; fill up the pail with more ice and salt, and freeze for two hours. Plunge the mould in warm water to wash off the ice and salt, and turn the Cream on to a piece of paper laid on the table. Dip a long knife in warm water, cut the brick lengthwise through the centre, divide each piece into three, so that the Neapoli- tan will then be in six equal-sized square pieces, each having the three kinds of Cream. Dress on a cold dish with a fancy paper over, and serve. Newport Whipped Cream.—Put 1 pint of sour or sweet Cream into a bowl with J pint of new milk, half a lemon cut into slices, and sugar and wine to taste, and whip them well together. Take off the froth, and serve it in jelly- glasses. New York Cream Ice.—Put into a saucepan 3 breakfast- cupfuls of milk, 10 table-spoonfuls of sugar, Jib. of gelatine, and a vanilla bean, and set the saucepan at the side of the range, whore the milk will heat up gradually, and thus give the gelatine time to dissolve; stir frequently from the bottom until the milk boils. Put a little more milk in a bowl with the yolks of ten eggs, well whisk them, pour the boiling milk over, and strain into a freezer. The vanilla bean may be wiped, and put away to be used again. When the custard has become cold, and begun to freeze, whisk the cup of Cream to froth, stir it in, and finish the freezing as usual, working the Cream until it is twice its original bulk. It is then ready for serving. Pastry Cream.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk and 1 pint of Cream into a stewpan, place it on the fire, stirring continually with a wooden spoon, and after it has boiled put in 2oz. of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a little salt, and let it remain until the peel is infused in the Cream. Add the yolks of eight eggs and beat up, keeping the pan over the fire. When the Cream is of a good consistence pass it through a fine sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon, into a basin, where it can be kept until wanted for use. If the Cream is preferred very thick, more eggs may be added. (2) Mix in a stewpan 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour with the yolks of six eggs, beating- them with a wooden spoon; when well mixed, add 1J pints of boiling Cream and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire, and when the mixture begins to boil take it off and beat it up again, putting it back on the fire for twelve minutes or so. Next put Jib. of fresh butter into a stewpan to clarify, and add it to the mixture in the other stewpan ; turn the lot out into a basin to get cool. Take some sugar (sufficient to sweeten), rub it well on the rind of a lemon, put it into a basin, add loz. of macaroons, and stir into the paste. If the paste be too thick, add another table-spoonful of Cream; and if too thin, the yolks of two more eggs. It can be flavoured in various ways, such as with coffee, orange, vanilla, &c. Cream cheese mixed with this makes a very nice tartlet: Line some small, well-buttered tartlet-moulds with trimmings of puff paste, put 1 table-spoonful of the Cream over, and a little piece of the paste cut into the shape of a star in the middle, and bake in a sharp oven; dust with finely-powdered sugar, using the salamander so as to glaze the star, and serve. (3) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan with 2oz. of sugar, and boil. Take 6oz. more sugar and 4-oz. of flour, and pass this through a sieve into the boiling milk; beat it up well, and boil for five minutes longer. Add loz. of butter and five eggsTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 474 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. beat up again, cover over the saucepan, and cook at the side of the fire for about ten minutes. When it is done, let it get cold, adding any flavouring desired. Plombiere Cream Ice.—Put into a stewpan 1J pints of Cream or milk, 14oz. of caster sugar, 6oz. of ground almonds and fifteen bitter ones (previously well pounded with 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water), 3oz. of apricot jam diluted with 1 teacupful of water, and the yolks of eight eggs, and place the pan on the fire, stirring the contents continually ; when the mixture begins to get thick, take it off, stir for a few minutes, and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin. Pour the preparation into a freezer, twisting the pan with a vigorous movement and sometimes working with a spatula or knife. When the mixture is nearly stiff, add two whites of Italian meringue and work well again, adding last of all J pint of well-whipped Cream. It can either be turned out into moulds, or served on a dish with a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper. Heap it up in layers with apricot jam between, and surrounded at the base with some almond cakes (see Fig. 573). Portuguese Cream Ice.—Put Jib. of sugar into a pan, place it on the fire and keep stirring until it begins to boil; then remove it, and put it in the oven to bake. Take it out when done, add a stick of cinnamon, bruised, and the thin rind of a lemon. Replace it in the oven, and let it remain for a few minutes more. Then pour J pint of water into a basin con- taining the yolks of ten eggs, lib. of caster sugar, and 1J pints of milk; mix these well together, and pour into the pan, on the fire, stir until it thickens, and then pass through a fine sieve into a bowl or basin. Add 1 wineglassful of curaijoa, place the basin on the ice to freeze the contents, and mix in, just before it is completed, 1 breakfast-cupful of well-whipped Cream, 3oz. of sliced pistachios, and the same quantity of finely-minced candied orange-peel. When it has frozen sufficiently it is ready to be served. Potted Cream with Lemon.—Measure 6 small cream- potfuls of new milk, put it into a basin with the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of five, and Jib. of caster sugar. Whisk the eggs well with an egg-whisk, put in the peel of half a lemon, infuse it for twelve or fifteen minutes, and pass through a fine hair sieve; fill some small cream-pots with the mixture, stand the pots in a stewpan with water to half their height, place the stewpan over the fire till the water begins to boil, then move it to the side, and put some hot ashes on the lid. When the Cream has set, take the pots out of the water, wipe them, and leave till cool. When ready to serve, turn the Cream out of the pots on to a fancy or glass dish. Princess Cream.—Put 1 pint of whipped Cream into a basin and add to it 6oz. of mixed fi'uit, such as drained preserved cherries (red and white) and pears. Cut the cherries into halves and the pears into small dice shapes, removing the cores of the last-named before doing so; then add 1 wineglassful of brandy, sweeten to taste, stir in loz. of dissolved isinglass, pour into a mould, and when ready for use turn out in the usual way. Prussian Cream.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth with Jib. of sugar, some lumps of which have been rubbed on the peel of a lemon, and put into a saucepan with 1 pint of Cream ; whisk for a few minutes, then set over the fire, and continue whisking till it boils. Pour the Cream into a dish, and serve it when cold. It is nice eaten with stewed fruit or preserves. Cream—continued. Rhenish Cream. — (1) Soak for ten minutes loz. of gelatine in sufficient cold water to cover it. Beat well the yolks of six eggs, mix in the juice of two lemons, and add the yellow rinds of the lemons cut off very thin; mix in next 1 breakfast- cupful of sherry, and sugar to taste. Pour 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water on to the soaked gelatine, stir it into the mixture of eggs and wine, put the whole into a saucepan on the stove, and let it heat till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Strain it into a basin, stir it till it is cool, and pour into a mould. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Rhenish wine into a sauce- pan with Jib. of loaf sugar and a stick of cinnamon, and place it over the fire. Beat well with an egg-whisk the yolks and whites of seven eggs. When the wine boils, take it off the fire, and remove the cinnamon. Add the wine by degrees, while very hot, to the beaten eggs, and continue to whisk rapidly till thick enough to be lifted on the point of a knife. Add a little orange-flower water and the strained juice of a lemon, pour the Cream on a dish, and garnish with sugar, small biscuits, or pieces of citron. (3) Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water, add the yolks of five eggs, with the juice and peel of two lemons, J pint of white wine, and Jib. of white sugar. Stir the mixture together, and boil gently till thick enough to put into the mould; it is then ready for use. (4) Put loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of boiling water, stir till dissolved, and let it stand till cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs with J breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, then mix them with the dissolved isinglass, and add the grated peel and strained juice of three lemons, and J pint of white wine. Stir the mixture well, and boil it over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, then pour it into a well-oiled mould, and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the Cream out of the mould on to a glass or fancy dish. Rock Cream.—Mash 1 breakfast-cupful of well-boiled rice to a paste, mix with it the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 6oz. of caster sugar, stir in 6 table-spoonfuls of rich fresh Cream and 20 drops of essence of almonds or extract of rose. Put it into a mould till quite cold and firm, turn it out on a glass dish, garnish with preserves, and serve with Cream or milk. Roman Cream.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, a small piece of cinnamon, and loz. of gelatine, and place it on the side of the fire; let the gelatine dissolve, and then whisk it well. Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them up until they are light as for custard, and put them into the saucepan, but do not let the mixture boil. Strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, and when nearly cold whip to a froth, and add 1 teacupful of cura^oa or 1 wineglassful of wine. Turn the Cream out into glasses, and keep them on the ice until wanted. Rose Cream.—Sweeten lqt. of milk with caster sugar, and put it over the fire until boiling. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, drop the froth in small quantities into the milk, turn them over once or twice, then take out, and lay them on a fine hair sieve to drain. When all the white of egg has been thus used, beat the yolks of the six eggs, and stir them into the milk, adding more sugar if required. Stir the Cream at the edge of the fire until thick, but without letting it boil, or the eggs will curdle, then turn it into a basin, and stir it occasionally until half cold. Flavour the Cream with a few drops of rose-water and J wineglassful of brandy, turn if into a glass or fancy china dish, and arrange the poached whites of eggs on the top. Strew nonpareils thickly over, and serve. Royal Cream. Put Joz. of gelatine into a basin with lqt. of milk, and let it stand for half-an-hour. Add the yolks of three eggs, beaten up with 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and stir well; also a little flavouring of vanilla. Put the basin into a pan of hot water, and stir continually until the mixture thickens. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the basin immediately it is removed from the hot water; stir well again, pour the mixture into moulds, and set them away to harden. Turn them out, and serve with or without sauce. Sherbet Cream Ice.—Beat up very light the yolks of three eggs, with 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water, then mix in by degrees lqt. of Cream. Turn this into a saucepan over the475 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. fire, close the lid, and as soon as it boils, strain it through a sieve, and mix into it 6oz. of powdered white sugar. As soon as the sugar is quite melted, pour the Cream into an ice-pail, and stand it in a refrigerator till frozen. Sicilian Cream Ice.—Take l.V pints of Cream, fib. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs, and put them into a stew- pan with the rind of two oranges rubbed off with the sugar. Place the pan on the fire, and stir until the Cream begins to get thick ; then pour it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and add 1 teacupful of citron liqueur. Stand the preparation on the ice, and let it freeze quite stiff ; then add 2oz. each of diavolini, shred pistachios, and chopped dried cherries. Mix thoroughly together, and place in moulds on the ice until wanted, then turn out in the usual way. Snow Cream.—(1) Pour 1 pint of Cream into a basin, sprinkle in 4oz. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar, and mix in the grated rind of three lemons and the juice of two. Whisk well and vigorously, until the preparation is quite thick, turn it into a sieve of sufficient size to just hold it, and let it remain for a day. Put it on a dish, and serve. (2) Put i table-spoonful of flour into a lined saucepan, stir in gradually 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and continue stirring over the fire until it boils. Move the milk to the side of the fire, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir until the eggs have thickened, without letting the mixture boil; then turn it into a deep dish. When cool, stir J wineglassful of brandy into this custard. Mix 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar with the whites of the four eggs, and whisk them to a stiff froth. Put 1 pint of milk-and-water into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire to boil. With 2 dessert-spoons take up small quantities of the beaten white of egg, which mould so as to leave the impression of the spoons on them, and drop into the pan of milk-and-water. As each lot are cooked, take them out of the pan, and lay them on a sieve, over which has been spread a folded napkin, to drain. When all the white of egg is used, pile the shapes lightly over the top of the custard, and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Brandy.—Mix j- pint of brandy with two whites of Italian meringues, and add 1 pint of double well-whipped Cream and 3oz. of small ginger comfits. Mix these well together, put them into a mould embedded in finely- pounded ice mixed with salt and saltpetre, and lot it freeze. When quite firm, turn it out of the mould, and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Maraschino.—Mix 1 teacupful of maraschino with two whites of Italian meringues when they are quite cold. Add 1 pint of well-whipped Cream and the kernels of eighteen walnuts (the walnuts being picked before they are quite ripe, and the skins removed from the kernels). See that these are thoroughly incorporated with the other ingredients, and then pour the preparation into a mould, which is to be packed in ice well pounded and mixed with salt and saltpetre. When frozen, turn out, and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Mering-ue.—Make a custard with the yolks of six eggs, lj teacupfuls of pine-apple syrup, and a stick of vanilla. Mix this with two whites of Italian meringue and \ teacupful of noyeau or maraschino, and then stir in well 1 pint of Cream, previously whipped, and lastly 2oz. of chocolate pastilles and jib. of pineapple cut up very small. When thoroughly incorporated, pour into a mould and place on the ice to freeze. When firm, turn it out and serve. Souffle Cream Ice with Vanilla.—Take two whites of Italian meringue, and when they are cold mix them with loz. of vanilla sugar and a pint of well-whipped Cream. Place a mould on the ice, and pour in the mixture ; cover over the \ mould, and pack it in pounded ice mixed with salt. When hard, turn out, and serve. Sour Cream Dumplings (German Spatzbn).—Put 1 pint of sour Cream into a saucepan over the fire, stir in gradually, with a wooden spoon, sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, and continue boiling it until cooked. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Beat three eggs, dust in a small quantity of salt, and mix with the paste. Place the mixture in small portions in a saucepan of boiling milk, and boil them for five minutes. Strain the dumplings, place them Cream—continued. on a hot dish, put a few pieces of butter on the tops and serve. Sour Ci’eam Snowballs. -Mix f pint of sour Cream with three well-beaten eggs, then mix flour in gradually and smoothly till the batter is so thick that a spoon will stand in it. Stir in i pint of beer, sweeten to taste with brown sugar, put in a few cardamoms, beat well, and drop into boiling lard or butter, a dessert-spoonful at a time. Fry them a pale brown, and lay them on white paper to drain. Fold a napkin in a dish, lay the fried snowballs on it, dredge sifted sugar over, and serve hot. Sour Cream Soup (German).- -Peel and finely chop an onion, put it into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire until nicely browned, then pour in 1 pint of sour Cream and 1 pint of pea soup. Season the soup to taste with salt and grated nutmeg, and boil it for five or ten minutes. Put some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread in a soup tureen, pour the soup over them and serve. Spanish. Cream.—(1) The same as Italian Cream, with the exception of the gelatine being put into cold water first, and then into hot water to dissolve, instead of into the custard. (2) Dissolve ioz. of isinglass in pint of water, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with lqt. of milk ; turn this into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then turn it out, and let it cool a little. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, stir them gradually in with the milk, add a wineglassful of white wine, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. When the mixture is quite cold, pour it into a dome- shaped mould, and pack it in pounded ice for a few hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water to loosen the contents at the sides, then turn the Cream on to a dish. Spanish Cream Custard (Lecha Crema).—This Spanish dish is prepared as follows: Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a saucepan with a small quantity of grated lemon; stir in very gradually 1 pint of new milk and the beaten eggs, and continue stirring over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side, and let it thicken. Put some small ratafias at the bottom of a dish, and soak them with brandy or sherry, and put a layer of any description of preserves on the top. Pour the Cream over the cakes, and leave till cold before serving. Stone Cream.—(1) Put loz. of isinglass into a lined saucepan with lqt. of Cream, stir it over the fire until dissolved, then strain it through a fine wire sieve, and continue stirring until nearly cold. Spread a layer of apricot jam at the bottom Fig. 574. Stone Cream. of a glass dish, pour 1 teacupful of orange wine over it; pour the cream over the jam, and leave it until quite cold and firm. Blanch loz. of sweet almonds, and split them length- wise into halves; stick them on the t.op of the Cream when ready, garnish with ratafias, and serve (see Fig. 574). (2) Dissolve ^oz. of isinglass in a small quantity of boiling water, strain it, and mix it in a saucepan with 1 pint of Cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir the Cream over the fire until boiling; pour it into a bowl and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Pile some preserved cherries, or any other kind of preserved fruit, in the centre of a glass dish, and grate the peel of one large lemon, and squeeze theTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 476 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Cream—continued. juice of two lemons over. When just tepid, pour the Cream round the fruit and serve. (3) Put any kind of preserved fruit at the bottom of a g-lass dish, pour over it the juice of a lemon and 1 wineglassful of Maderia or white wine, and dust over with a little grated nutmeg. Put foz. of isinglass into a little water to dissolve, pour it into a pint of Cream in a saucepan, add 2oz. of sugar, place the pan on the fire and bring it to the boil; then remove the pan to the side, and stir until nearly cold. Pour the Cream gently over the preserved fruit, and when it is perfectly cold, serve. Swiss Cream.—(1) Mix the yolks of eight eggs, 1J- tea- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and the grated yellow peel of one lemon, in a basin, and put this in a larger one containing boiling water. Beat the eggs well, then whisk in gradually i pint of French white wine. Turn the Cream into a glass dish, and serve it immediately. (2) Put 1 pint of good milk into a lined saucepan, sweeten it to taste with lemon-flavoured sugar, and boil it; then take it off the fire, and let it get nearly cold. Mix 3 teaspoonfuls of flour quite smooth with 3 table-spoonfuls of lemon juice and a little of the boiled milk, then add the remainder of the milk, and stir over the fire until thickened and boiling. Arrange some lady fingers and macaroons in a dish, and pour the Cream over them. When quite cold, spread § pint of thick and well-whipped Cream on the top, strew a few chopped preserved cherries and pieces of candied peel over, and serve. Thick Cream.—Mix the juice of two small lemons and 1 wine- glassful of brandy in 1 pint of Cream, and sweeten it to taste with caster sugar. Pass the Cream backwards and forwards from one basin to another until it is thick, then turn it into a glass dish, and serve. Turkish Cream Pie.—Make about Hlb. of flaky pastry, roll it out as thin as possible on a floured table or pastry board, and divide it into rounds of about 5in. diameter. Butter a round baking-tin, the same diameter as the pieces of pastry, and put in half, one upon the other, brushing over each with a paste- brush dipped in warm butter. Put ilb. of ground rice into a saucepan with lj pints of milk, boil until reduced to a thick pulp, turn it into a basin, and leave it till cold; then put in the whites of two eggs, and work the rice mixture until of the consistency of clotted Cream. Spread this over the pastry, and cover it with the remaining rounds, moistening between them with butter, as before. Cut the pastry across into strips about 2in. broad, and bake it in a moderate oven until delicately coloured. When cooked, arrange the strips of pastry on a hot dish, pour hot syrup over, dust with caster sugar, and serve. Velvet Cream.—(1) Put into a pan on the fire loz. of gelatine with £ pint of sherry, and add the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and 1| breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. When the gela- tine is all dissolved, strain, and leave the mixture to cool, but before it begins to stiffen, add 1| pints of Cream. Beat all together until it is nearly thick enough to drop, then pour it into moulds, and place them on the ice until the preparation is as stiff as blanc-mange. (2) Put 1 pint of Cream into a saiicepan, add loz. of isinglass dissolved in 1 teacupful of water, place the pan on the fire, and boil up ; then add 1 tablespoonful of noyeau, remove the pan from the fire, and stir until nearly cold. Put a layer of apricot marmalade at the bottom of a dish, pour the Cream over, put a little marmalade or a whole apricot in the centre, and serve. (3) Whisk lip 1 pint of Cream with sufficient caster sugar to sweeten it, and add loz. of isinglass dissolved in a little water. This may be flavoured with any kind of jam, preserved fruits, or flavouring. Fresh fruits chopped up small make a very favourite addition. Put the Cream into a mould, set on ice, and turn out on to a glass dish garnished round with sweet biscuits. (4) Soak loz. of gelatine for two minutes in enough cold water to cover it. From 3oz. of lump sugar take three or four lumps, rub them on the rind of a lemon, and put them into an enamelled saucepan. Squeeze over them the juice of the | lemon, and add pint of white wine, the remainder of the lump sugar, and the soaked gelatine. Put the whole on the stove, and keep stirring till the gelatine is quite melted, then strain it I Cream—continued. into a bowl, and let it cool. Whip a pint of rich Cream with a whisk till it is a stiff froth, and when the wine mixture is quite cold, lightly mix this in, pour it into a mould packed in ice, let it freeze till it is firm enough to turn out, and serve. Versailles Cream.—Put 4oz. of caster sugar into a small frying-pan, place it on the fire, and stir until it is of a light brown colour; add 2 table-spoonfuls of water, stir up for a little while, and mix it into lqt. of milk. Beat seven eggs in a basin, and add § teaspoonful of salt. Put this into the milk, with % teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Butter well a two-quart Charlotte Russe mould, pour the mixture into it, place the mould in a basin of warm water, and put it in the oven until the custard is firm in the centre, which can be ascertained by thrusting a knife into it. If the custard is not milky, it is done. It will take about forty minutes in a moderate oven, but only thirty minutes if the oven is very hot. When done, remove it to a cool place until wanted, then it must be served as cold as ice, with some caramel sauce poured over. Virginia Cream.—Put ^ pint of Cream into a saucepan with lqt. of milk and a little sugar and lemon-peel, and boil it until it is reduced to half its original bulk. Then take it off the fire, and when it is nearly cold, mix in the yolks of eight eggs, and pass through a strainer into a pan, which should be put into the bain-marie to thicken the mixture. Continue straining it, and when it is done, pour it into a deep dish. Next whip up the whites of the eight eggs with a whisk, and as the froth rises put it in a heap over the Cream. When no more froth can be obtained, sprinkle over a little sugar, and glaze it in the oven or with a salamander. Whipped Cream.—(1) This is made from Cream that has been left for a day before being skimmed from the milk. It should be put into a large basin and set on ice, so that it may be kept cool while it is being whipped. This is done with a whisk, and has to be continued until the Cream is froth. A little white of egg and gum-water will make it stand better, and it should only be made just before it is wanted for use, the sugar required to sweeten it and the flavouring being put in last. By taking off the froth with a spoon as it forms, and putting it on a coarse hair sieve, the free Cream runs through, leaving froth only ; the liquid Cream may be put back to the other Cream being whipped. (2) Put lqt. of good Cream into a bowl or basin, and in another basin mix the white of an egg with some sifted sugar and orange- or rose-water. When the latter preparation is well mixed, stir it into the Cream, and whisk it well. When the froth rises, take it off with a spoon, and pile it on a dish. It may be garnished with candied peels, or eaten with cooked fruits or cake. (3) Put 2qts. of the richest Cream (double Cream, if possible) into a copper basin, place it on a pail filled with ice, and beat it well with a wire whisk. Remove the froth with a per- forated skimmer as it comes to the surface, and lay it upon a sieve to drain. When it is all converted into froth, put the sieve in a cool place for a couple of hours; then add gradually, and gently work into it, 6oz. of the finest powdered sugar and 2oz. of vanilla sugar. It is then ready for use, and may be employed to fill meringues, or for any other purpose. (4) Whip £ pint of Cream to a strong froth, after mixing with it some finely-rasped lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon-juice, ^ wineglassful of sweet wine, and a little caster sugar. Lay it on a sieve in a heap, and the next day put it on a dish and garnish round it with very light puft'-paste biscuits, made in shapes the length of a finger and about the thickness of two, over which should be strewn caster sugar. The edge of the dish may be garnished with macaroons. Whipped Cream flavoured with Brandy, Coffee, Curacoa, Rum, &C.—Put 1 pint of fresh Cream into a basin, and set it over a larger basin containing broken ice. Beat the Cream with a wire whisk, slowly at first, but quicker as the froth begins to form, and then whip in I gill of brandy, liquid extract of coffee, or other flavouring. Beat until all this is thoroughly worked in, and then turn the Cream froth into a glass dish and place it in an ice chest to keep cool until required for serving. The froth may be set on a fine silk sieve to drain, and the Cream dripping from it, if any, returned to the basin for further whipping.