ACTION DOKS 22101453869 F.L S. iI Med K10372 \ > . VDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28104699PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK COMPILED AND WRITTEN UNDER DIRECTION OF Bernarr Macfadden BY MRS. MARY RICHARDSON Assisted by GEO. PROPHETER Copyrighted, 1901, by Bernarr Macfadden in U. S. A. Entered at Stationers Hall, London, Eng. All Rights Reserved PUBLISHED BY THE PHYSICAL CULTURE PUBLISHING CO. Townsend Building, 25th St. and Broadway flEw York, U. S. A.3^/7/0 For AlphaLbetica>.l Index see paLge 221 Preface and first three chapters written by Mr. Macfadden WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No GitPREFACE. The art of cooking should be taught in every public school. Every boy and girl should not only know how to cook, but should be able to quickly detect and understand the causes of bad cooking. Though there may come a day when foods can be tastily and wholesomely prepared without cooking, such a vast change is unques- tionably far removed from the present age. Therefore, knowledge of cooking is of almost as much importance as that of reading or writ- ing. Thousands become regular patrons of the doctors simply because of inferior cooking. The best food in the world can be made indi- gestible and almost devoid of nourishment from the same cause. The contents of this book will plainly setPREFACE. 4 forth the best methods of preparing all the foods now used on the table of the average English-speaking family. Too often cooking is looked upon merely as the art of preparing food to tickle the palate of gourmands whose sense of taste is so dead- ened that no food, not highly seasoned, can be enjoyed. Such persons have lost the power to appreciate the delicate flavor of the whole- some, nourishing foods. It is the taste of the seasoning alone that they crave. The preparation here advised is meant to bring out to the greatest degree the most deli- cate flavor of food, and therefore but little seasoning is used with the exception of salt. Food, properly cooked, properly eaten, in proper quantities, has a vast influence upon the strength, beauty and suppleness of the body. The brain, too, draws all its nourishment from the same source, and clear and strong mental faculties depend more upon competent cookery at the present day than wc imaging,5 THE rtlYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. The suggestions contained herein are pre- sented with the hope that they will be of mate- rial assistance to the reader in building the highest degree of physical and mental powers through the aid of nourishing foods properl}'- and palatably prepared.CHAPTER I. The following- bills of fare were used at the Physical Culture Health Home for some time: Dinner was served at lo o’clock and supper at 5 o’clock. Usually fruit of some kind was passed around early in the morning. To those who are compelled to eat at the regular hours of those accustomed to three meals per day, would suggest that they eat some light' fruit either at the noon or the morning meal, and the two heavy meals at the other meal hours. Recipes for cooking or preparing the various dishes in the bills of fare will be found on the pages given in parenthesis to the right of each dish mentioned. Salt is the only seasoning allowed. Fruit' always means bananas or apples and two other varieties. Especial care necessary to see that all fruit is served at proper ripeness. Whole wheat bread served at every meal.8 the physical culture cook book. Stewed prunes at all suppers. Strained honey is used instead of sugar. Milk and water served at all meals. Guests are especially requested to abstain from drink- ing unless to actually satisfy thirst. SUNDAY. DINNER. Chicken Soup, 77 Mashed Potatoes, 50 Squash, 65 Graham Flour Cake Roast Beef, 89 Butter Beans, 64 Tomatoes (stewed), 61 Fruit SUPPER. Fruit Eggs fried in butter Hot Corn-Bread Whole Wheat, 15 Beet Salad, 130 Honey Nuts and Dates. MONDAY. DINNER. Split Pea Soup, 75 Lentils, Cutlets, 64 Beets, 56 Mashed Potatoes, 50 Turnips, 54 Dessert (Custard Pudding), 165 FruitTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 9 SUPPER. Fruit Scrambled Eggs, ii6 Lettuce Salad, 130 Nuts Whole Wheat, 15 Hominy, 125 Corn Muffins, hot, 39 Figs TUESDAY. DINNER. Baked Potatoes, 50 Asparagus, 65 Carrots, 53 Fruit Baked Kidney Beans (dry). Baked Rolled Oats (with 63 butter), 125 SUPPER. Fruit Cheese Omelet, 118 Water Cress, 130 Whole Wheat, 17 Whole-Wheat Muffins (hot), 35 Honey Nuts WEDNESDAY. DINNER. Roast Chicken, 103 Tomatoes (stewed), 61 Peas, au Gratin, 64 Dessert (Floating Island), Egg Plant, 66 165 Baked Sweet Potatoes Fruit (same as Irish potatoes), 50THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. lO Fruit Boiled Eggs, 115 Tomato Salad, 130 SUPPER Whole Wheat, 15 Macaroni with Cheese, 69 Hot Corn Muffins, 39 Honey. THURSDAY. DINNER. Thick Tomato Soup, 74 Boiled Potatoes, 49 Lima Beans, 63 Cauliflower, 57 Green Sugar-Corn, 61 Fruit SUPPER. Fruit Eggs (Omelet), 116 Honey Hot Whole-Wheat Muffins, 35 Whole Wheat, 15 Rice with Grated Cheese, 68 Nuts Lettuce Salad, 130 FRIDAY. DINNER. Baked Fish, 82 Baked Lentils Boiled Potatoes, 49 Creamed Cabbage, 57 Onions (stewed), 56 Fruit Custard Pudding, 16511 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. SUPPER. Fruit Poached Eggs, ii6 Honey Tomato Salad, 129 Whole Wheat, 15 Creamed Potatoes, 50 Hot Corn-Muffins, 39 Nuts and Dates. SATURDAY. DINNER. Split Bean Soup, 75 Green Peas, 64 Parsnips, 54 Pumpkin Pie with Graham Fruit Crust, 178, 183 Baked Sweet Potatoes (same as Irish Potatoes), 50 SUPPER. Fruit Whole Wheat, 15 Savory Omelet, 116 Spaghetti with Cheese, 69 Hot Graham Muffins, 37 Honey Nuts and DatesCHAPTER II. PREPARATION OF WHEAT AND OTHER WHOLE GRAINS. Unquestionably some of the most nourish- ing and most wholesome foods can be obtained from whole grains just as they are furnished by Nature, without an}^ milling or other process. In a recent editorial in one of my magazines, I stated very clearly my opinion of the average health food and their manu- facturers. Most all of these health foods are simply poor imitations of the whole grain from which they have been manufactured, and in nearly every instance when properly prepared the whole grain itself makes a superior food. Many of these health foods are valuable and most all are far superior in every way toTill: ITIYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 13 the many defective foods such as white bread used throug-hout the country. In many of these prepared foods the extreme outer cover- ing of the grain has been removed. This con- tains the fiber which is valuable as a means of adding bulk to the food and as a means of assisting in digestion, assimilation and speedy evacuation. Where these parts of the grain have been removed its actual food value has not seriously depreciated. The nourishment is all there. Constipation will, however, in many cases be induced by continuing the use of such a food, because of the need of that stimulation to the peristaltic action of the bowels furnished by the fibrous element con- tained in the outer covering of the grain. The principal advantage of the health foods over the entire grain lies in their ease of prep- aration. Many of these foods have been cooked by steam, and they can simply be placed on the stove, in milk or water, and when brought to a boil are ready to serve. In fact, some of them are so well cooked that the mere addi- tion of boiling milk or boiling water will be sufficient to prepare them for the table,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 14 Beware of all concentrated foods. They are harmful in nearly every instance. There must' be a certain bulk to all foods in order to bring about the proper results. For instance, it is a well known fact that a horse fed on grain alone will never thrive. A certain amount of hay is necessary to give the necessary bulk to the food and to furnish that fibrous element needed to properly stimulate the bowels. A horse not fed on hay will frequently begin to eat the wood of which the stall is composed, as a sub- stitute, thus proving conclusively the necessity for this fibrous, woody element. Do not be deceived by the claim that many of these health foods are partly digested by some special preparation. They may be styled “pre-digested foods.” In many cases this so- called process has in no way accomplished this result. Even admitting that food has been partly digested it actually has less food value because of this. About the easiest method to weaken a strong arm is to lessen the labor which is its daily habit to perform, and the same rule applies to the stomach. If this or- gan was supplied with partly digested foods,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 15 the necessity for the regular performance of its normal functions would disappear, and in- stead of becoming stronger it would neces- sarily grow weaker. Natural foods, just as nature made them, and just as they were intended for man and other animals, cannot be improved upon by man. Wheat is unquestionably the most perfect food known. It supplies in almost exact pro- portions the elements needed to perfectly nourish the body. I will describe the process whereby this whole grain just as it comes from the field can be so prepared as to make a very palatable and nourishing food. Put a quantity of this wheat in a vessel and soak it over night in water. In the morning salt to taste, pour milk over it and simmer— not boil—for from three to five hours. The longer it simmers the softer it will become and the more delicious it will taste when first placed in the mouth, though it would be well to remember that thorough chewing will bring out slowly but surely the full delicacy of its flavor even if not cooked until soft. ThisTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. i6 wheat can be eaten with butter, honey, cream or cream and sug-ar, though if the taste is not' accustomed to ‘‘palate ticklers” of this char- acter it will be found appetizing without any addition whatever. If it is desired to make the dish especially rich, it can be soaked in milk instead of water over night. If milk can- not be had, water can be used for boiling in- stead, though, of course, it will not taste so palatable. Now the process which I have described for preparing wheat can be applied to almost any of the whole grains, such as corn, barley, rye, etc., and they will be found very palatable and very nourishing. The variety of dishes which can be made from grains in this way is almost unlimited. For instance eggs can be poached or prepared in most any way, and served on boiled wheat or other grains, and it will be found a very palatable and nourishing dish. Grains pre- pared in this way can be added to a salad and will greatly increase its nourishing and appe- tizing qualities. It can also be served withTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 17 Steak and other meats. In fact, a well informed housekeeper can originate an unlimited variety of dishes in which boiled whole grains can be used to great advantage. In case you should be caught without flour at any time, bread can be made of any one of these whole grains by the following process: Soak the grains over night in water. In the morning salt and simmer until soft. When possible put in enough water to cook the grain to a proper degree of softness without adding more. When the water has all evaporated and the grains have become soft, remove from the stove and place a small quantity at a time in a jar, and put through the same process re- quired in mashing potatoes. This will reduce it to a pulpy mass. Now, using gem pans, place in a hot oven and allow it to remain until baked through to a proper hardness. Serve with butter or as ordinary bread. In preparing this be careful to see that the grain has been cooked to a proper degree of softness, as other- wise it will not macerate sufficiently. Foods of this character are not only the18 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. cheapest, but the most wholesome, the most nourishing and about the most easily digested. Furthermore, if actual nourishment is needed and if the taste has not been deadened by strong condiments or sauces, there is nothing that tastes more delicious.CHAPTER III. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS. The following comments must be given special attention by all who make any use of the recipes found in this book. We do not use pepper in any of our recipes. If so accus- tomed to the use of this particular condiment that no dish is appetizing when omitted, it can be added wherever desired. One hygienist suggests that where pepper is absolutely nec- essary take a small piece of red pepper, a quarter or half of an inch square, and place it in the food. After this pepper has remained for awhile it can be removed and the food will then be seasoned without any part of the pep- per remaining. Wherever flour is mentioned, the reader will please understand that we mean whole- wheat flour. Please give particular attention to this. Frequently through the book you will find the word “fry” mentioned. Please distinctly20 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. understand that we do not in any way recom- mend the use of fried foods as the term is or- dinarily understood. Whenever this is men- tioned we mean that the food is to be fried in a vessel containing sufficient pure vegetable oil to entirely immerse it, the oil being heated to a smoking degree. When the food is cooked in this manner a thiin crust is formed imme- diately the oil comes in contact with it, and this crust prevents the oil from penetrating the food. If the oil is not heated sufficiently it will penetrate and saturate the food. Frequently through the book you will find baking powder mentioned. There are, of course, several good brands of baking powder on the market, but absolutely pure baking powder is easily made. It is composed of two parts of cream of tartar and one part bicar- bonate of soda. These two elements can be kept in every -kitchen in separate bottles well corked, and may be used in proportion to suit. This baking powder is cheaper, purer and more reliable than any brand on the market. You will find a few recipes for “devilled” dishes. One hygienist remarked that all dishes21 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. of this nature are so devilish that it would have been better to have left them out en- tirely. However, if our readers desire to run the risk it is their affair, though we desire to warn them that dishes of this nature can only be digested by strong stomachs. A good brand of yeast is put up in small dry cakes enclosed in round cans, and can be bought in most any grocery store, and can be used wherever yeast is recommended. We thoroughly realize that we cannot con- vert the public to the strictest hygienic meth- ods, and there are several recipes for dishes that we do not personally recommend and would not eat ourselves. Those, however, who are in the habit of using such dishes and must be regularly supplied with them will find the method of preparation here advised superior to the ordinary methods. For instance you will find recipes for pre- paring pork, lamb, and veal. Pork should never be eaten at any time under any circum- stances. Lamb, veal and all immature meats are preferably avoided.CHAPTER IV. A WORD ON COOKING. This little book has two chief aims. First, it is designed to serve as a guide to whole- some cookery and hygienic diet, and so dishes which contain much condiment, very high seasoning or unhealthful combinations are omitted. Since the chemistry of cooking is a study in itself, this book does not pretend to teach it thoroughly; but some hints have been given, in the various chapters, in regard to the value of foods, their proper combination, etc. Every housewife, hov/ever, ought to know something of the chemistry of cookery, and every member of the household should take enough interest in his own welfare to under- stand and follow a few of the simplest rules of hygiene. The most careful preparing will not make food digestible unless it be well masti- cated, for instance; nor can one continually23 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. overeat of the simplest food with impunity. On the other hand, enough must be taken to nourish the system, and each must judge for himself just how much that should be. The proper combination of foods is another im- portant branch of the subject, and a few ex- planations, hints and examples will be found in the chapter on menus. The second aim of this book is to provide some simple and explicit receipts which can be easily followed. Too many cook-books are so vague and general as to be quite useless to the beginner, and others give such elaborate and expensive dishes that only a small minor- ity of the housekeepers find them available. The following recipes are the result of years of experience in cooking and of study to make the daily meals of a family nourishing and wholesome. Most of them have been tried and found useful as well as tasty. Too many cooks make no distinction in their manner of cooking different articles of food. To most of them it simply means starting a raging fire, popping everything into water and boiling it as fast as possible; or into a very24 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. hot oven, with the sole object of finishing quickly. While the nature of some few dishes requires that they cook quickly, many foods are improved in nutritive value and in flavor by long, slow cooking, i.e., at a low temperature. Rapid boiling renders many things indigest- ible, unpalatable and unfit for the stomach; whereas, if cooked properly they would be quite wholesome. Without going deeply into the chemical changes which take place in cooking, let us look at a simple example of the value of slow cooking. It is an accepted fact that an egg is more digestible if cooked slowly in water at a temperature of i6o° F. than at 212°, or boiling point. In this case it is because the albumen of the egg is coagulated and rendered less soluble at the higher temperature. For other reasons, meat is often improved by slow cook- ing. Rapid boiling toughens the fibers of the meat, while slow cooking, in it's own juices, makes it tender and palatable. The cheaper cuts, especially, which really contain just as much if not more nourishment than the ex-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 25 pensive steaks and fillets, should be cooked long and slowly, and will be found very tasty. The grains are much improved by the slow method. The Scotch, who use so much oat- meal, cook it for hours, sometimes all day. As we Americans use oatmeal, largely as a break- fast cereal, it would seem hardly possible to get it done in time without rising in the middle of the night to start it. It is a good plan, how- ever, to put the oatmeal for to-morrow’s break- fast on the back of the stove, with plenty of water, in a covered pot, after the fire has been banked up for the night, and leave it until morning, when it may be pushed forward and allowed to boil briskly for a time if necessary. Corn-meal mush is also improved in digesti- bility, and a sweet, nutty flavor is imparted to it if cooked slowly two or three hours. Rice may be prepared for convalescents, or persons of weak digestion, by cooking four or five hours, and it will be found very nutritious. Many vegetables are improved by this method. The legumes can be cooked slowly all day to advantage. An excellent nourishing soup may be made by setting a pot of beans26 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. (with, of course, water, seasonings, etc.) on the back of the stove in the morning and leav- ing them to cook very gently and slowly until the soup is dished for dinner. Many of the old or dried vegetables, too, may be cooked long. In fact', the list of foods which require slow cooking is a long one. For the following chapters, the proper time required for cooking each dish is given.CHAPTER V. BREAD, ROLLS, BISCUITS, ETC. Bread made of the whole grain flours forms a most important article of diet, since the grains contain more nourishment than any other foods. It would seem almost unneces- sary, in this age of hygienic reform, to speak at any length of the unwholesomeness of the ordinary bolted “white” flour as compared with the entire wheat or other coarser flours. Yet we see “white bread” served at so many tables, and so little use made of the whole wheat flour, that one must needs conclude that many people are unacquainted with the hy- gienic value of the latter. In making the white flour, much of the nourishing part of the grain is bolted away, leaving little but the starchy element, whereas in the entire or2 8 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. whole wheat flour, the gluten and phosphates, so necessary to build muscle, to make bone, to enrich the blood, are retained. Whole-wheat bread is easier of digestion, better for the teeth and much more nourishing than the white, and as all kinds of biscuits and rolls, and even cakes and pies, can be made from the whole- wheat flour, it is used in most of the following recipes. Try it, and I doubt if you will ever go back to the other flour. Above all, give it to the children, whose growing bodies need just the elements it contains. For shortening, use pure olive oil instead of lard. In making bread a few general directions must be carefully followed. Sift the flour and do not let it be too cold—it is best to set it in a warm place for an hour or so before using, have the water or milk warm, and dissolve the yeast in warm water; make a soft dough; set in a warm place, out of draughts, and cover with a pan and a cloth, to rise over night. When in the pans, the dough should only one- half or one-third fill them; the pans should be put in a warm place for the second rising. I29 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. put mine on the plate warmer if the fire is not too hot. The oven must be moderately hot. Try it by putting your bare arm in, and if you cannot count thirty without withdrawing your arm it is too hot. The heat should be steady while the bread is baking. Put the loaves on the bottom of the oven at first, and lay a piece of brown paper over them, or on the grate of the oven, to prevent the crust from getting too brown. In making muffins or biscuits, have the dough soft; bake quickly, of course; always mix the baking powder with the flour, and sift with the other ingredients. I. Whole-Wheat Bread No. i (Excellent). —Two quarts flour, one quart lukewarm milk, one-half cake compressed yeast, one-half cup molasses, one tablespoonful shortening, two teaspoonfuls salt. Dissolve the yeast in a little of the warm water. Sift and warm the flour, work in the shortening, and add other ingredients. Mix well, either with a spoon or with the hands. The dough will be too soft to knead, but must be mixed or beaten. Let it rise over night. In30 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. the morning mix well again. Put into two greased bread pans, cover and set in a warm place to rise again for about one hour or until risen to the tops of the pans. Bake 1^4 hours in a moderate oven. 2. Whole-Wheat Bread No. 2.—Two-quaris flour, one-half pint lukewarm water, one pint warm milk, one-half cake yeast, one-half cup molasses, two teaspoonfuls salt, four potatoes. Peel and boil the potatoes in as little water as possible. When soft, mash and add suffi- cient of the warm water and milk to make one quart liquid. Proceed as for whole- wheat bread No. i. 3. Graham Bread No. i.—One quart' Graham flour, one pint white flour, one handful Indian meal, one-half cup molasses, one-half yeast cake, enough warm milk or milk water to mix to a dough as stifle as you can stir it. Let rise over night, covered, in a warm place. In the morning stir again and fill two bread pans about one-third full, and set to rise again for an.hour or until the pans are full. Bake in a moderate oven i to 134 hours. 4. Graham Bread No. 2.—One-half yeast cake, one cup of molasses (or one-half cup, if you do not wish the bread so sweet), one tea-31 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. spoonful salt, one tablespoonful shortening, one pint warm water, enough Graham flour to make a soft dough. Mix and stir well, and let rise over night. In the morning mix again, put in greased pan, let rise again and bake i]/2 hours in moderate oven. 5. Rye Bread.—One pint white flour, one tablespoonful shortening, one-third yeast cake dissolved in one pint warm water, one table- spoonful brown sugar. Mix well and set to rise over night. In the morning add one pint warm milk, one teaspoonful salt, a small pinch of soda dissolved in very little warm water and rye flour to make a pliable dough not quite stiff enough to handle. Mix well, put in a greased pan to rise again, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 6. Aerated or Peptic Bread.—Two cups en- tire wheat flour, one cup sweet milk, two tea- spoonfuls baking powder, two tablespoonfuls brown sugar, one-quarter small teaspoonful baking soda, pinch salt. Sift baking-powder and soda with the flour; add the other ingre- dients and stir thoroughly and quickly. Put in well-greased pan and bake in a moderate oven hours. When done, cover with a clean cloth while cooking.32 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 7. “Peptic” Graham Bread.—For one loaf. Three cups Graham flour, one cup white flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls salt, two and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Put these ingredients in a bcwl, mix well with a spoon. Make a well in center, pour in due large fablespoonful New Orleans molasses and one pint of water. With a large spoon stir quickly and thoroughly together. When all the flour is wet stir it a moment longer, then turn at once into a well-greased baking pan. Smooth the top of the dough with a knife dipped in melted butter. Bake at once, jn a moderate oven, one hour and a quarter. As soon as baked remove from the pan and wrap in a cloth until cool. 8. “Boston Brown Bread.”—One even cup of Indian meal, one heaping cup of rye meal, one cup entire-wheat flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of molasses. Mix very thoroughly together, the meal, salt and soda. Add one pint of hot water t'o the molasses and stir; pour the molasses and water into the middle of the meal, and stir till smooth batter. Put in a buttered tin boiler, cover tightly, and set in a covered iron kettle to boil three hours, adding water as may be necessary. When done set the bread boiler inTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 33 the oven for one-half hour. Milk may be used instead of water if desired. 8a. Brown Bread.—Three cups Indian meal, one-half teaspoonful salt, two cups warm water, two cups sour milk, two tablespoonfuls cream, two teaspoonfuls soda, two and a half cups flour, or enough to thicken. Mix well and bake in a very slow oven four to six hours. If possible, use a covered pan to bake in. 9. Gluten Bread.—One-sixth cake dry hop yeast, one cup warm water, one heaping tea- spoonful butter, and two and one-half cups gluten flour. Mix thoroughly, cover closely, and let rise over night. Knead into loaves in the morning, using as little gluten flour as possible, let rise and bake one-half hour. 10. Tea Rolls.—In the morning take three pints of entire wheat flour, rub into it two tea- spoonfuls of butter. Then add one teaspoon- ful salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, about one-half of a compressed yeast cake dissolved in water or milk, slightly warmed, using suffi- cient to knead a soft dough. Cover and let rise until light and spongy. Then roll out about three-fourths of an inch thick and cut round and spread each one with melted butter34 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. and fold. Then lay them close in a tin and let rise again. 11. Breakfast Rolls.—One quart whole wheat flour, one-half pint milk, one-half pint water, one-third yeast cake, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls shortening, pinch salt. Mix thoroughly at night and set' to rise. In the morning mix again and make into small rolls. Put in a greased pan and let rise twenty minutes, or until light'. Brush over the tops with melted butter or milk and bake one-half hour. Or take some risen bread dough, work into it in the morning one tablespoonful butter and proceed as above. 12. Whole-Wheat Gems (Good).—One quart whole-wheat flour, one quart water, one tablespoonful melted shortening, two table- spoonfuls sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking jiowder, a pinch salt. Beat thoroughly, put into hot greased gem pans and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 13. Graham Gems (No. i).—One pint water, one pint milk, enough Graham flour to make a batter which will drop from a spoon and not run. Stir very thoroughly, put in hot, well- greased gem pang and bake quickly in a hotTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 35 oven. These gems are recommended as whole- some by several authorities. Experience will help in the matter of the softness of the dough, etc. 14. Graham Gems (No. 2).—Three cups Gra- ham flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one egg, one cup milk, one cup water, one-half teaspoonful salt. Beat thoroughly and pour in heated gem pans. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes, 15. Rye Gems.—One cup rye flour, one cup cornmeal, one cup Graham flour, one tcaspoon- ful salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and one pint sweet milk or water. Bake in hot gem pans twenty minutes. 16. Sally Lunn.—Three eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, three cups flour, two tea- spoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt. Stir the butter, melted, into the beaten yolks; add the milk, the flour (into which the baking powder has been sifted), and the whites last. Bake in one loaf, in a steady oven. 17. Whole-Wheat Muffins (No. i).—Table- spoonful of pure olive oil; tablespoonful of honey or sugar; one egg beaten with a cup of milk; one and one-half cups of whole-wheat$6 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. flour; one teaspoonful baking powder; salt- spoonful of salt. Beat the olive oil, sugar and egg together, then add the cup of milk. Mix the flour, bak- ing powder and salt well; then mix all well together. Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. This portion will make twelve muflins. 18. Whole-Wheat Muffins (No. 2).—Two cups entire-wheat flour, two cups milk, one egg well beaten, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- der. Mix powder and flour, stir in egg and milk thoroughly and pour into hot gem pans. Bake in hot oven one-half hour, or until done. 19. Whole-Wheat Muffins (No. 3) (Deli- cious).—One quart flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, one tablespoonful sugar, a lit- tle salt, water to make a batter a little stiffer than for pancakes. Bake in greased muffin rings on a hot-greased griddle. Serve at once. Do not hesitate to try this recipe because it calls for no milk and eggs; it makes the light- est and tenderest of muffi'ns. 20. Muffins.—Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one pint sweet milk, one tablespoonful melted butter, two teaspoonfulsTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 37 baking powder, flour enough to stiffen. Bake twenty to thirty minutes in a hot even. 21. Breakfast Muffins.—One cup sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful melted butter, one pint sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful salt. Mix well, put in hot buttered pans, and bake twen- ty to thirty minutes. This amount makes twelve muffins. 22. Rye Muffins (No. i).—One cup rye flour, one-quarter cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cup- ful white flour, one egg, one cupful sweet milk. Mix well, put in hot muffin pans and bake in a hot oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 23. Rye Muffins (No. 2).—One cup rye flour, one cup Graham flour, one cup wheat flour, half a teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls bak- ing powder, one tablespoonful sugar, two eggs, two cups milk or water. Bake in muffin rings fifteen to twenty minutes. 24. Graham Muffins.—One quart Graham flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, tv/o tablespoonfuls sugar, a little salt, one table- spoonful butter, egg and two cups milk. Bake in small pans at once in a good oven, fifteen minutes.38 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 25. Rice Muffins (No. i).—Take one cup cold boiled rice, two cups flour, two eggs, two cups milk, one tablespoonful butter and one tea- spoonful salt. Beat very hard and bake quickly. 26. Rice Muffins (No. 2).—One cup boiled rice, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, two table- spoonfuls melted butter, one teaspoonful sugar, two of baking powder, and enough flour to make a batter; beat hard and add the baking powder the last thing. Bake in muffin rings. 27. Barley Muffins.—One cup barley flour, two table spoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful melted butter, one egg, one cup milk, one tea- spoonful baking powder, a little salt. Mix well, beat up and bake in greased muffin pans about twenty to thirty minutes. 28. English Muffins.—One quart' flour, one- half teaspoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one and one- quarter pints sweet milk. Have batter a little stiffer than for griddle cakes. Have a griddle hot and greased, lay greased muffin rings on it, fill them half full, and when risen to the top turn with cake turner. Do not bake too brown. When done, pull apart, toast slightly, and butter. Serve at once.39 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 29. Corn Muffins (No. i) (Good).—Two cups Indian meal, oine cup flour, two cups milk, one tablespoonful sugar, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- der, three eggs, a pinch salt, beaten separately. Mix meal, milk, yolks of the eggs, sugar, but- ter, add the flour mixed with the baking pow- der, lastly the whites of the eggs. Beat well and bake in hot-greased pans in a hot oven. This makes twelve muffins. 30. Corn Muffins (No. 2) (Good).—Two cups corn-meal, one and one-half cups flour, two and one-half cups sour milk, two eggs beaten separately, one teaspoonful shortening, one teaspoonful salt, one-half cup molasses, one-half teaspoonful baking soda, one tea- spoonful baking powder. Beat well and quickly, put in hot gem pans, and bake one- half to three-quarters of an hour. This quan- tity makes twelve muffins. The soda must be put into the sour milk, of course. Some cooks leave out the baking powder and use more soda, but I like the other way better. These muffins will be found nicer than those made with sweet milk. Buttermilk also may be used. 31. Grandmas Johnny Cake (Delicious).— Pour one quart boiling water over one quart40 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. corn-meal and let cool; add two tablespoonfiils melted butter, two tablespoonfuls molasses, two eggs, beaten separately, one full pint sour milk, in which mix one teaspoonful soda, three tablespoonfuls white flour, in which mix one teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful salt. Beat well, adding the whites of the eggs last. Bake in a sheet (in a greased dripping- pan) three-cjuarters to one hour in a hot oven. If no sour milk is at hand, omit the soda and use two good teaspoonfuls baking powder. 32. Corn-Pone.—One quart Indian meal, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls melted butter or shortening, cold water to make a soft dough. Bake in a thin cake, in a hot oven. 33. Graham Puffs No. i.—Beat one egg, then add one pint sweet milk, one pint Graham flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat all briskly with egg beater, pour in hot-greased gem pans, and bake in hot oven. This amount makes twelve puffs. Hot cups, greased, are better than tins. 34. German Puffs No. 2.-—One pint sweet milk, one-half pound flour, two ounces butter, nnd four eggs. Separate the eggs and beat the41 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. yolks until thick; warm the butter and milk until the butter is melted; when cold, stir in, slowly, the yolks of the eggs; mix with the flour. Whisk the whites dry, stir through very lightly and bake in buttered cups not half full. 35. Pop-Overs.—One egg, white and yolk beaten separately, one cup sweet milk, one cup flour, a pinch salt. Bake twenty minutes in greased cups. 36. Whole-Wheat Pop-Overs.—One and one-half cups entire-wheat flour, one-half cup white flour, one tablespoonful sugar, one tea- spoonful salt, one tablesponful melted but- ter, three eggs, beaten separately. Beat batter well and bake in buttered stoneware cups for twenty minutes in hot oven, then reduce the heat and bake twenty minutes more. They will rise to three or four times their height. 37. Crumpets.—Two cups milk, three cups flour, three tablespoonfuls butter, saltspoonful salt, half yeast cake dissolved in warm water. Warm the milk; beat in the salted flour, the melted butter, and the yeast. Let this sponge stand in a warm place until light. Bake in greased mufiin rings on a hot griddle, or in patty pans in the oven. In either case fill the42 the physical culture cook book. pans or rings only half full, as the crumpets will rise in baking. 38. Waffles, I.—Three cups flour, one table- spoonful butter, two eggs, two cups milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt. Beat the eggs until light, add the milk, butter and salt. Stir in the flour with the baking powder last. Grease your waffle-irons well. 39. Waffles, 2.—The following recipe is perfect: To one quart of flour add one pint of warm (not hot) corn-meal mush, salt to taste, seven eggs beaten light separately, one tea- cupful sweet cream, and fresh milk sufficient to make a thin batter. Stir the cream and beaten egg yolks into the mush, then add the flour and fresh milk, stirring well and mixing perfectly smooth. The egg-white, beaten to a stiff froth, should be added just before cooking. The batter should be as thin as buttermilk, and the waffle- irons well heated and greased. Raw meal will not do; it must be made into mush. 40. Maryland or Beaten Biscuit.—Rub one tablespoonful each of butter and lard into one quart of sifted flour, with one teaspoonful of salt; gradually add milk enough to makeTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 43 a stiff dough, mixing it with the hand. When the dough is mixed, lay it on a floured bread-board and beat it with the roll- ing pin, turning it continually, until it blis- ters and cracks loudly. It will require to be beaten about half an hour. When the blisters are abundant tear off pieces of the dough as large as an egg, mold them in the form of bis- cuit’s, prick the tops with a fork, and bake in a rather quick oven. 41. Barley Meal Scones.—Two pounds bar- ley meal, three-fourths ^ teaspoonful baking soda, three-fourths teaspoonful cream of tar- tar, half a teaspoonful salt, and buttermilk. Mix, and add enough buttermilk to make a nice, soft dough; then sprinkle a little meal on the baking board, and roll out to a fourth of an inch thick. Cut in three and bake on a not too hot griddle. 42. Whole-Wheat Griddle Cakes (Good).— Three cups entire-wheat flour, one cup Indian or corn-meal, three teaspoonfuls baking pow- der, one teaspoon salt, enough water to make a batter. Beat well and fry on a hot griddle. This recipe sounds almost too simple to be good, but it makes the lightest, most delicious cakes, and, if properly cooked, are wholesome.44 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. Do not put too much grease on the griddle— use just enough to keep the cakes from stick- ing. If the cakes are too thick, when cooked, add a little more water. 43. Rice Griddle Cakes.—One and a half cups cold rice, two cups flour, two eggs, one heaping teaspoonful baking powder, milk to make a thin batter, half a teaspoonful salt. Cook on a hot griddle. 44. Graham Wafers.—Two cups Graham flour, one cup sweet milk, pinch of salt. Mix quickly and thoroughly, roll out as thin as pos- sible. Prick and bake in a quick oven. 45. Graham Wheatlets.—Scald one pint Gra- ham flour with nearly a pint of boiling water or milk. Add salt and flour to make a dough as soft as you can handle it. Roll one-half inch thick, cut in round cakes and bake in a very hot oven on a hot buttered tin. 46. Oatmeal Wafers.—Sift together one cup fine oatmeal, one cup rolled oats, two cups flour, one-quarter cup sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful soda, and mix well. Pour one-half cup of hot water on one- quarter cup of butter, and when melted add to the other ingredients. Roll out as thin asTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 45 possible, cut into round cookies and bake in slow oven. 47. “Hot Cross Buns.’'—Three cups sweet milk, one-half yeast cake, flour to make a thick batter. Set to rise over night. In the morn- ing add one cup sugar, one-half cup melted butter, grated nutmeg, a little salt, flour enough to handle. Knead well and set to rise. Roll one-half inch thick, cut into round cakes and put in buttered baking pan. Let rise one- half hour, make a cross on each and bake to a light brown and brush with white of an egg. Sprinkle powdered sugar on top if desired. 48. Cream Toast.—Heat one pint milk, stir into it one large tablespoonful flour wet with a little cold milk. Add one large teaspoonful butter, and one cup cream if you have it. Place on the back of stove to keep hot, then toast nicely some bread, dip into the cream, put into a dish, and when you have sufficient toast pour the cream over it and serve.CHAPTER VI. VEGETABLES. Vegetables are very wholesome and nutri- tious and have many medicinal qualities. As a race, Americans eat far too much meat and too little vegetable food. The legumes (dried peas, beans, etc.) contain almost’ double the amount of muscle-making food to be found in beef, at a far less expense. Of course, vege- tables must be properly cooked and properly combined with other foods to be at their best. Dried or old vegetables require slow, long cooking; most of the young or green ones should be boiled only until tender. They should be put into boiling water, salted, and boiled, not too fast'. Use only enough water to cook them, as many of their useful salts are wasted when there is much water left to “drain off” when the vegetables are served. SoftTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 47 water is preferable to hard, and the very nicest way to cook them is to steam them. The starchy vegetables, as the potato, rice, etc., are heat producers; the legumes, flesh and muscle builders; while the green vegetables, such as spinach, cabbage, young peas, etc., are useful for the salts they contain and furnish necessary bulk. Their medicinal properties are important. For instance, spinach affords relief in kidney troubles, asparagus purges the blood, celery acts on the nervous system, let- tuce is cooling in its effect, etc. In arranging meals starchy vegetables must be combined with watery ones, legumes with food contain- ing fat or oil, etc. For instance, potatoes sup- ply carboUj in which beef is deficient; there- fore, potatoes and beef form a rational com- bination. The turnip and carrot contain a large amount of water, and should be used with glutinous foods. The tomato contains a useful acid, but care must be taken in com- bining it with other acidulous vegetables or fruits. Many vegetable and fruit acids cannot be used together, but vegetable acids usually48 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. combine well with citric acid, as contained in oranges, lemons, etc. Slow, long cooking improves some vegeta- bles and makes them more digestible. Beans, dried peas and lentils should be cooked slowly for six to eight hours, and the skins should be removed. Turnips, carrots, parsnips, in short, all old tubers, should be so cooked. TIME FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. Boiling. Asparagus—15 to 20 minutes. Beans (Lima)—^ hour, slowly. Beans (string)—2 hours. Beans (dried)—4 to 6 hours, slowly. Beets (young)—45 to 60 minutes. Beets (old)—3 to 4 hours. Cabbage—30 to 45 minutes. Carrots (young)—45 to 60 minutes. Carrots (old)—2 to 4 hours, slowly. Cauliflower—30 to 45 minutes. Celery—30 minutes. Corn (green, fresh)—8 to 10 minutes,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 49 Macaroni—i hour. Onions—30 to 45 minutes. Oyster Plant—30 to 60 minutes. Parsnips (according to size and age)— to hours. Peas—15 to 25 minutes. Split, dried peas—4 to 6 hours. Potatoes—20 to 30 minutes. Spinach—20 to 30 minutes. Squash—20 to 30 minutes. Tomatoes—15 to 20 minutes. Turnips—i hour, boiled hard; 4 to 5 hours, if steamed slowly. Baking. Beans—6 to 10 hours. Potatoes—45 to 60 minutes. Macaroni—^ to i hour. I. Boiled Potatoes.—New potatoes may be boiled in their jackets, but old potatoes should always be pared thin. Put in enough boiling, salted water to cover them and boil fast until tender, or about 20 minutes. Drain off the50 TliE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. water and set on the back of the stove a mo- ment to dry out, shaking the pan occasionally. 2. Baked Potatoes.—Select even-sized po- tatoes, wash carefully and wipe dry and put in a moderately hot oven. Bake until soft. Break the skin of each a little. They should be done in about’ 45 minutes. Sweet potatoes can be baked as above. 3. Mashed Potatoes.—Boil the potatoes, drain, mash well and add a little salt, enough milk to soften, a piece of butter, and beat well with a spoon. Put in the oven a moment to heat thoroughly and serve. 4. Creamed Potatoes.—Put one tablespoon- ful butter in a frying pan and when it bubbles add one tablespoonful flour. Add one cup hot milk, with salt to taste. Add one pint cold boiled potatoes cut into small dice. Cook until thoroughly hot. 5. Mother’s Milk Potatoes.—Put one cup- ful of boiled, new potatoes, cut in small bits, into a saucepan with one tablesponful of but- ter, salt to taste and add one-quarter cup of milk. Stir to prevent burning and when thor- oughly heated serve at once.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. SI 6. Scalloped Potatoes.—Butter a baking dish, pare potatoes and slice thin, put in dish a layer of potatoes, and sprinkle with salt; then another layer of potatoes, etc., until dish is nearly full. Then fill with milk. Put bits of butter on top and bake in a quick oven 45 to 50 minutes. 7. Sacked Potatoes.—Select for baking po- tatoes as near of a size as possible. Cut off each end. When baked, scoop out the inside with a spoon, being careful not to break the skins. Add to the potato, butter, salt, and suf- ficient hot milk to make quite soft. Beat till very light and smooth. Fill the skins with this and place on end in a buttered pan on the oven grate till browned on top. The potatoes will puff up considerably if sufficiently beaten. 8. Potatoes Roasted with Beef.—Pare the potatoes and place in the pan with the meat, basting when you do the beef. They Avill be nicely browned and mealy when the meat is done. It is better to place the potatoes on a grating so as not to become saturated with the fat in the bottom of the pan. 9. Potato Croquettes.—Season cold mashed potatoes with salt and pepper and beat to a cream with one t'ablespoonful melted butter52 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. and one egg. Form into small balls. Dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat or oil, or brown in a very hot oven. 10. Potato Puff.—To two cupfuls cold mashed potatoes add two tablespoonfuls melt- ed butter and beat to a cream. Then add one cup milk, salt to taste, two eggs. Beat well and brown in a hot oven. 11. Delmonico Potatoes.—Chop fine suffi- cient cold boiled potatoes to make one pint. Put one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour into a pan; add a half pint of milk, a half teaspoonful of salt. When boiling mix this with the potatoes. Turn into a small baking dish; sprinkle over the top two tablespoonfuls of parmesan cheese, and bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 12. Saratoga Potatoes.—Peel and slice very thin six'large potatoes, lay them in ice water one hour, and thoroughly dry them with a clean towel. Drop each slice separately in a kettle of boiling oil, fry until crisp and brown. Take out with wire spoon, drain and sprinkle with salt' while hot. 13. Hashed Brown Potatoes.—F i n e 1 y chop three good-sized cold boiled potatoes andTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 53 season with salt. In a frying pan melt one tablespoonful of butter. Turn in the potatoes and press them down over the bottom of the pan. Place the pan where they will cook slowly, turning it round from time to time that they may brown evenly. Do not stir them. They should be well crusted on the bottom in about twenty minutes. Roll carefully like an omelet and turn out on a hot dish. 14. Boiled Sweet Potatoes.—Wash clean and boil in the skins in boiling salted water one-half hour. Drain, peel and set in the oven a minute to dry out. 15. Browned Sweet Potatoes.—Boil the po- tatoes until they can be pierced with a fork, but not until tender. Remove the skins, dust lightly with sugar, roll in melted butter and brown in the oven. 16. Stewed Carrots.—-Scrape young carrots, and cut in strips and boil in salted water one- half hour. Serve with drawn butter sauce or melted butter. 17. Carrots and Peas.—Scrape and cut up six small carrots and boil. Mix with one cup of cooked peas (canned peas will serve), and one cup drawn butter sauce.54 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. i8. Mashed Carrots.—Scrape, boil and mash the carrots and beat in one tablespoonful but- ter, salt and two tablespoonfuls cream. ig. Mashed Turnips.—Select the large yel- low turnips, as they are sweetest. Wash, pare and cut them into pieces. Boil them in salted boiling water until tender, two hours, pouring oflf the first water if they are old and strong. Drain, mash, season with butter and salt, and heap lightly in a vegetable dish. 20. Creamed Turnips.—Cut peeled turnips into half inch dice, boil in salted water and drain, pour over a cream sauce made of one cup hot milk poured gradually over one table- spoonful each butter and flour rubbed together. Season and serve. All vegetables made in this style should never be allowed to get cold be- fore cream or sauce is added. When allowed to become cold they are not as easily digested and do not absorb the cream or sauce. 21. Boiled Turnips.—Pare and cut into quar- ters. Place into boiling water, well salted; boil till tender. Drain well, wash, adding butter, and a pinch of sugar. Stir and mix. Serve hot. 22. Boiled Parsnips.—If parsnips are youngTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK ROOK. 55 they require only to be scraped before boiling; old ones must be pared thin and cut into quar- ters. Put them into a stewpan of boiling salt and water. Boil them quickly until tender, or about one hour. Serve with melted butter or drawn butter sauce. 23. Buttered Parsnips.—Boil tender and scrape; slice lengthwise. Put three table- spoonfuls butter in a saucepan, salt and a little chopped parsley. When heated put in the parsnips. Shake and turn until mix- ture boils, then lay the parsnips in order upon a dish, and pour the butter over them and serve. 24. Parsnip Balls.—Boil in salted water till very tender. Afash and season with butter and salt. Add a little flour and two well beaten eggs. Form into small balls and fry. 25. Scalloped Parsnips.—Boil, scrape and mash the parsnips, season and put in a dish. Cover with bread crumbs, bits of butter and brown in the oven. 26. Mashed Parsnips.—Boil and scrape the parsnips and remove the filirous centers. ]\'[ash with Imtter, salt and a little milk. Serve very hot.56 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 27. Beets.—Do not break the skins in wash- ing or they will lose their color in cooking. Boil one hour in hot, slightly salt' water. Rub off the skins, split in half, dish, and pour on them a boiling mixture of one tablespoonful of melted butter and salt. Serve very hot. 28. Beets with Vinegar.—Boil the beets, peel, slice and serve cold with genuine cider or wine vinegar or lemon juice. 29. Boiled Onions.—Peel the onions (if the knife and hands are kept under cold water the odor left on the hands will not be so strong) and boil 45 minutes. Serve with drawn but- ter sauce. 30. Baked Onions.—Peel the onions and cook in boiling salted water twenty minutes, drain, put in a baking dish, cover with fresh boiling water and bake one hour. Take up and pour over them a sauce made of the water they were baked in, which should be about one cup; if there is not enough to fill a cup, add milk, let boil and add the yolk of one egg beaten and the hot milk poured on it, then return t'o the fire until it thickens. 31. Fried Onions.—Peel, mash and cut cross- wise ; flour, and fry five or six minutes; drain,57 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK sprinkle with salt; serve with beefsteak. Use very little fat in frying; indeed, they may be done without any if they are covered and care is taken that they do not burn. 32. Boiled Cabbage.—Take off the outer leaves, cut out all the large ribs, cut in quar- ters and boil in salted water thirty minutes. Drain and serve. 33. Cream Cabbage.—Slice half a good sized cabbage and put in boiling salted water; as soon as it boils put back on the stove to simmer for thirty minutes, when it’ will be tender; drain and cover with a sauce made of one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of butter and a little salt; let it get hot in this and serye. 34. Cold Slaw.—One-half pint rich milk or cream, one-half pint good vinegar, one small cup sugar, three eggs beaten very light, a lump of butter size of an egg, and salt to taste. Cook all together until like custard. When cool, pour over cabbage cut very fine. 35. Cauliflower.—Cauliflower should be placed head down in well salted water for a while to remove insects; trim off outside leaves and boil in salted water for thirty or forty min-58 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. iites. Serve with butter or pour a drawn but- ter sauce over it. 36. Cauliflower au Gratin.—If there is any cauliflower left over, it is very nice baked. Put the cauliflower in a baking dish, season, put on the top bread crumbs and grated cheese dotted with bits of butter, pour over all one cup drawn butter sauce, and bake fifteen min- utes. If fresh cauliflower is used it must be boiled first, of course. 37. Brussels Sprouts.—Pick over, wash care- fully and cook in boiling salted water about fifteen minutes. Serve with drawn butter sauce. 38. Fried Egg Plant.—Peel and cut the plant in slices less than one-half inch thick; immerse in salt and water over an hour, drain and dip each slice in beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown. 39. Stewed Salsify.—Scrape and cut’ each root in two and drop into water. Stew in boil- ing water, a little salt, until tender, about one- half hour; pour off the water, add enough milk to cover the roots; when it boils, stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour and salt; simmer five minutes, and pour out.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 59 40. Fried Salsify.—Scrape and lay in cold water ten minutes. Boil tender, and when cold mash with a wooden spoon, picking out the fibrous parts. Wet to a paste with milk; work in a little butter, season to taste, make into round flat cakes, dredge with flour, and fry to a light brown; serve hot. 41. Stewed Celery.—The outer stalks of cel- ery that are unfit for serving raw may be used. Cut into inch pieces, put in boiling salted water and boil thirty to forty minutes. Make a sauce by adding to one cupful of the water the celery has stewed in, two tablespoonfuls condensed milk (or cream) and one tablespoonful butter; thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, and pour over the celery. 42. Spinach.—Spinach must be very care- fully washed, or it will be gritty. Boil twenty minutes in salted water, drain and chop. The less water that is used to start this vegetable the better the flavor will be. Pour over it a rich drawn butter sauce, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. 43. Stuffed Tomatoes.—Take large, firm tomatoes; cut a round place in top of each, scrape out all the soft part's; mix with stale6o THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. bread crumbs, corn, onions, parsley, butter and salt; chop very fine, and fill tomatoes; carefully bake in moderately hot oven ; put a little butter in pan; see that they do not burn or become dry. 44. Baked Tomatoes.—Select fine large to- matoes, and cut a small piece out of the stem end of each. In this hole place a small lump of butter, about half the size of a hickory nut. Bake the tomatoes slowly for half an hour; take up, and keep hot while you thicken the juice left in the pan with a teaspoonful of flour wet up in a very little cold water. Set the pan on top of the stove, and let its content's boil up once. Salt to taste and pour this sauce over the tomatoes. 45. Broiled Tomatoes.—Slice, but do not peel, fresh tomatoes. Broil them on a toaster over the fire; remove to a hot' dish; put a little butter and salt on each one, and let them stand a minute before serving. 46. Panned Tomatoes.—Cut the tomatoes into halves, place them in a baking pan, skin side down, sprinkle lightly with salt and pep- per, and put in the center of each a tiny bit of butter. Bake slowly until soft. Dish, and add to the liquor in the pan one pint of milk.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 61 Moisten two level tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold milk; add it to the pan and stir constantly until boiling. Add a teaspoonful of salt and pour it over the tomatoes. Gar- nish with squares of toast and serve. 47. Scalloped Tomatoes.—Take six large ripe tomatoes, skin and cut into small pieces. Spread a layer in the bottom of bake dish, sea- son well, put a layer of coarse bread crumbs over the tomatoes with bits of butter. Con- tinue this until the dish is full, having bread crumbs on top. Bake one hour. 48. Stewed Tomatoes.—Canned tomatoes can be used. Put one tablespoonful of butter in a stew pan, and let it brown slightly. Then pour in one can of tomatoes, seasoned with salt and cook one-half hour. At the last add one-half cupful of bread crumbs and serve. 49. Boiled Corn.—Husk the corn, leaving the last shuck on. Cook in boiling water for fifteen minutes. 50. Baked Corn.—Cut the grains of one dozen ears of corn down the middle and scrape, /vdd one cup boiling milk, salt to taste. Put in buttered baking dish, dot over small bits of62 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. butter and bake in moderate oven three-quar- ters of an hour. 51. Stewed Corn.—Cut the kernels through the center, and scrape contents from the ear. vStew in milk about eight minutes. Add but- ter and salt, and serve. 52. Succotash.—Boil one quart lima beans about forty-five minutes; cut down the grains of one dozen ears of corn, and scrape. Add to the beans, season with salt and butter. If too dry add a little milk. Cook fifteen min- utes after adding the corn. 53. Roast Corn.—Turn back husks and pick off the silk. Re-cover with the husks and roast in the hot ashes of a wood fire. 54. Boston Baked Beans.—Pick over one quart little white beans and soak over night in six quarts cold water. In the morn- ing, drain and put on to cook in enough cold water to cover well, and add one-half pound salt pork. Let come to a boil, and boil two hours. Then put the beans and pork into a bean-pot, with two teaspoonfuls molasses, and fill the pot with some of the water the beans boiled in. Bake in a slow oven all day, or at least ten hours, adding boiling water as theyTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 63 dry out', until the last two hours. Corned beef may be used instead of pork, in which case add salt. 55. Baked Beans (2), without meat.—Soak one quart small white beans over night, drain and boil two hours; then add one cup milk or cream, two tablespoonfuls butter, two table- spoonfuls molasses or brown sugar, one tea- spoonful salt, turn into a bean pot or baking dish, and bake in a slow oven six hours, add- ing water occasionally if necessary. 56. Bean Fricasseed.—Soak one-half pint beans two hours, and cook slowly for five or six hours; then put one-half ounce butter in frying pan, and brown two slices of onion. Dredge in a little flour, about one tablespoon- ful, and stir. Add one-half pint milk or soup stock, gradually stirring to prevent lumping. Season with salt and add the beans, drained. Simmer five minutes, squeeze in a little lemon juice—just a few drops—and serve. 57. Mashed Beans.—Soak one pint white beans over night in cold water. Boil six hours, mash through a cullender, and season with a good lump of butter and salt. 58. Lima Beans.—Boil forty minutes to one64 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK hour in salted boiling water, season with but- ter. 59. String Beans.—Wash, string carefully and boil twenty to forty minutes, according to size. Butter beans, if large, may require one hour. Add butter when served. 60. Green Peas.—Shell and boil the pods in a little water, keeping the pot covered. Drain and cook the peas in this water about fifteen minutes. Season with butter and salt. If the peas are bought in the city markets, a little sugar may be added to the seasoning. 61. Peas au Gratin.—Soak one pint dried peas or split peas in cold water over night. Boil slowly five hours with half an onion and a little celery. Drain, put through a cullender and add one cup bread crumbs, one and one- half tablespoonfuls butter, salt to taste, one cup of milk, and put in a baking dish. Grate a little cheese on top, and bake one hour. 62. Lentil Cutlets.—Soak over night one cupful of dried lentils and one-third cupful of dried lima beans. Drain, add two quarts of water, half an onion, a stalk of celery. Cook until soft, remove the seasonings and rub through a sieve. Add one cupful of stale breadTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 65 crumbs, one beaten egg, seasoning to taste, and the juice of half a lemon. Melt one table- spoonful and a half of butter, add one table- spoonful and a half of flour, and pour on grad- ually one-third cupful of sweet milk. Let cook until smooth and thick, and add to the lentil mixture. Set aside to cool. Then form into small cutlets, dip in beaten egg, then in pow- dered cracker crumbs and fry to a golden brown. Drain, and serve with tomato sauce. Peas may be used for this dish. 63. Canned Peas.—Open the can and pour the contents into a cullender. Drain off the juice, and set the cullender in fresh cold water. Drain, and put the peas in a saucepan, with a little boiling water, to heat thoroughly. Sea- son with butter, and salt. 64. Asparagus.—Wash, cut’ off the ends and tie in bundles; cook in enough boiling salted water to cover for twenty to thirty minutes. Serve on toast with drawn butter sauce, using some of the water in which the asparagus was boiled, instead of milk, in making the sauce. 65. Summer Squash.—Pare, cut up and boil until tender, about twenty to thirty minutes. Mash with butter and salt.66 the physical culture cook book. 66. Winter Squash will need longer cook- ing than summer squash, and the seeds must be removed. 67. Vegetable Marrow is one of the dain- tiest and sweetest of the squash family. Pare, cut up and boil until tender, twenty minutes or so, in salted water, and serve with a drawn butter sauce. 68. Baked Squash.—Boil, mash, and let cool; then beat up light with one t'ablespoonful melted butter, two raw eggs, three tablespoon- fuls milk, pepper and salt to taste. Put in but- tered bake dish, sift dry crumbs over the top, and bake in a quick oven. 69. Egg Plant.—Slice the egg plant at least half an inch thick, pare each slice and lay in salt' and water for an hour. Wipe dry and fr}'' brown. 70. Stewed Cucumbers.—Cut them into halves, then into quarters, then into eights; put them in a baking pan, cover with boiling water; add a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Lift them care- fully with a strainer, arrange neatly^ on slices of toasted bread, and pour oyer them-drawn67 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK butter sauce, using for the sauce the water in which the cucumbers were boiled 71. Artichokes.—Strip off the outer leaves and cut off the stalks, wash and lay in cold water one hour. Boil one and a half hours, or until very tender, and serve with drawn butter sauce. 72. Ragout of Vegetables.—Parboil one car- rot, one turnip, two potatoes, two ears of corn, one cup of lima beans, and the same of peas, one onion; drain off the water; slice carrots, turnips, potatoes and onion. Put into a sauce- pan with a cup of some good meat soup before it has been thickened. Season well; cut the corn from the cob and add with the peas, beans, and a sliced tomato as soon as the rest are hot. Stew all together one-half hour. Stir in a great lump of butter rolled in flour. Stew five minutes, and serve in a deep dish. 73. Stewed Mushrooms.—Do not try to use mushrooms unless you are quite sure that you can judge between the edible and poisonous kinds. Cut off the stalks of button mushrooms and put’ in enough cold water to cover; stir gently fifteen minutes; salt to taste, add a tablespoon*68 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. fill of butter rubbed in flour, three tablespoon- fiils of cream, stirring all the time. Boil three minutes and serve. The French canned mushrooms may be used, but must not be cooked so long. 74. Boiled Rice (i).—Put one cup of rice into three cups of cold, salted water, and set it on the stove, where it will gradually come to the boil. When it boils, set it in a hotter place, and for five minutes let it boil furiously. Set it back again with an asbestos mat under it. The water will gradually steam away and leave it dry and well cooked. 75. Boiled Rice (2).—Put one cup rice mashed carefully in a double boiler with one quart boiling water and one scant tablespoon- ful of salt. Boil rapidly fifteen minutes; then pour oft the water, cover and cook twenty minutes longer. The water in the under boiler must boil rapidly all the while. 76. Boiled Rice (3).—Put one cup rice into three cups boiling water, and boil 20 minutes; then set in a pot of boiling water, and keep the water boiling for four hours. Rice cooked in this way is especially easy of digestion.THE PPIYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 69 77. Rice Croquettes.—Two cups cold boiled rice, one well-beaten egg, one teaspoonful but- ter, salt to taste. Work the butter, egg and salt into the rice, make into croquettes with the floured hands, and fry in oil. 78. Macaroni with Cheese.—The genuine Italian macaroni is the nicest. Boil one-half pound (or half a package of the French maca- roni) in plenty of salted boiling water for one hour. Drain, and put half of it in a buttered baking dish, season with salt, grate cheese over it, add the other half of the macaroni, then more cheese and some bits of butter on top. Pour over it enough drawn butter sauce to fill the dish—about one cup, and bake three- quarters of an hour. 79. Macaroni and Tomato Sauce.—Boil as above, and season. Serve with tomato sauce. 80. Macaroni a la Creme.—Boil the macaroni twenty minutes; drain and add a cup of milk, a little salt, and stew fifteen minutes. Pour over a rich drawn butter sauce, and serve with grated cheese.CHAPTER VIL SOUPS. The old-fashioned idea that uncooked meat must form the basis of all soups is an exploded one. Many delicious vegetable soups may be made without any meat, and the bones, scraps and ragged ends of yesterday’s roast should always be saved for the soup pot, as they make quite as good soup, if properly combined with vegetables and seasoning, as the raw ‘‘soup- meat” which used to be considered necessary. So, we see that' soups may be quite inexpen- sive, and, being nourishing and easily ab- sorbed, make a valuable addition to a dinner. Soup should, however, be served in small por- tions, lest the stomach be overloaded with it and filled with gases; and as everything we eat should be masticated to some extent, soup stocks, croutons or toast, should be served with it.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK, 71 In making soup, always put cold water on the ingredients and simmer long and very slowly, to draw out the juices. It is better, too, to make it the day before it is needed, or a least to prepare the stock; let it cool, and take all the grease or fat from the top. Much depends on the seasoning of soup. Onions, carrots, tomatoes, some herbs are nearly always good. Celery is useful, and it is a good plan to save all the tops of the celery used, dry them on the plate warmer or in the oven, and keep in a glass jar, ready for use. 1. Soup Stock (i).—^Cover the bones and ragged ends of a roast of beef, veal or lamb with cold water, and simmer very slowly four or five hours. Then add one onion, a little celery, one carrot scraped and cut into pieces, salt, and cook two hours longer. Let cool, skim off the fat, and keep in a cold place. 2. Soup Stock (2).—Or take two pounds beef and soup bone and put into two and a half quarts cold water, and proceed as above. 3. Vegetable Stock.—Put two onions, two carrots, a little celery, one potato into two quarts of water, and cook slowly three hours.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 72 With this stock, milk or cream is generally used. 4. Soup Maigre, a vegetable soup.—Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a pan and fry in it two small carrots, two onions, one turnip, washed, peeled and cut up. Boil the pods of two quarts green peas in one and a half quarts of water for twenty minutes, and strain the liquid into the soup pot. Add the browned vegetables, a little celery, one-half bay leaf, and simmer three hours. (The peas may be added, but are unnecessary, and could be served as a vegetable instead.) 5. Green Pea Soup.—Cover one quart green peas with hot water and boil twenty to thirty minutes; mash, and add one point' of water in which the shells have been boiled, two cups of milk, one tablespoonful butter, salt to taste. Thicken with one tablespoonful flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold milk, boil up once, stir- ring constantly, and serve. 6. Potato Soup.—Six boiled and mashed po- tatoes, one quart milk. Season with salt. Mash and add butter and pour in gradually the boil- ing milk. Stir well and strain through a sieve; heat once more. Beat up an egg, put in the73 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK tureen and pour over it the soup when ready to serve. 7. Salsify Soup.—Scrap one bunch salsify and cut up. Boil slowly one hour in a little water. Add one quart milk, without draining off the water, salt to taste, one-quarter of a bay leaf, one tablespoonful butter; thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir until it boils. Stand on the back of the range for ten minutes. 8. Asparagus Soup.—Wash a bunch of as- paragus and put it on to boil gently three- quarters of an hour. Take out and cut off the tips, and set aside. Press the stalks through a cullender, and add one pint rich milk or cream, one pint of the water in which the as- paragus boiled, salt to taste, and one table- spoonful butter rubbed smooth in two of flour. Stir until it boils; add the tips and serve with squares of toast. 9. Tomato Bisque.—Put one quart can of tomatoes to stew. Put over one quart of milk ; when nearly boiling thicken with one table- spoonful flour mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Boil ten minutes and add one table- spoonful butter, and salt to taste. Into the tomato, put one-half teaspoonful soda and one74 the physical culture cook book. teaspoonful sugar. Strain and add to the milk. Serve at once. 10. Tomato Soup.—Cover the bones, rim, etc., from a roast of beef or veal with cold water; add one onion, one carrot, celery, one- quarter of a bay leaf, small piece red pepper, and set on the back of the stove to simmer slowly five hours. Then add one can of to- matoes (or one quart fresh ones, peeled and cut up) and cook one and a half hours longer. Strain, thicken with flour, and serve with croutons made b}^ spreading bread, cutting it into neat squares and browning in the oven. 11. Celery Soup (i).—Chop quite fine enough celery to make three cupfuls, and cook it until tender in a little boiling water. Add it to one quart of hot milk, one onion, season to taste, and thicken with a little flour rubbed smooth in a lump of butter. Let it get very hot and serve with brown bread sandwiches. 12. Celery Soup (2).—For two quarts soup take the bones, etc., two chickens or a turkey, one small onion, one pint celery and one cup sago. The celery must be washed and cut into pieces. Put the bones into cold water to cover them, and simmer two hours. Add the vege- tables and sago, and cook one hour longer.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 75 Strain, and add one pint milk, boil up and serve. 13. Cauliflower Soup.—Melt in a saucepan a tablespoonful of butter with three table- spoonfuls of flour. When these are thoroughly cooked but not browned—three minutes’ stir- ring over the fire will suffice—add three pints of veal or chicken stock, and finally half a good-sized cauliflower which has been pre- viously boiled. When the soup has cooked ten minutes strain it through a puree sieve, pressing through all the cauliflower. Return the soup to the fire and let it simmer slowly tor twenty minutes longer. Serve with bread croutons. 14. Split Pea Soup.—This soup may be made with or without meat, as desired. If meat is used, bones from lamb or veal will do. Or simply the bacon will suffice. Put the bones, etc., in a pot, with two slices of bacon, salt to taste, one onion, a little celery, two and a half cpiarts of water, and one pint split peas which have soaked in cold water over night. Cook slowly four or five hours, press through a cul- lender, heat, and serve. A ham bone may be used instead of other meat. 15. Bean Soup.—Soak one pint white beans76 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. over night. In the morning put on, with two and a half quarts of water, one onion, one car- rot, celery, salt and pepper, and cook slowly four or five hours. Strain and heat. Add one cup milk just before serving. 16. Lentil Soup.—Soak one pint lentils over night; put on with two quarts of water, and proceed as for bean soup. 17. Bouillon.—Put four pounds of beef, cut in pieces, and bone on with five quarts cold water; add one tablespoonful salt, small piece red pepper, two onions, bunch parsley, celery, one bay leaf, and simmer four hours. Remove from the fire, and when cold skim off the fat and strain through cheese cloth or flannel bag. Bring to a boil again and clarify with white of an egg well beaten in one-half cup of cold water. Boil two minutes and strain again. 18. Oxtail Soup, enough for five persons.— Two oxtails, cut into pieces; wash carefully and parboil two minutes; put one tablespoon- ful of butter in the soup pot and put in the oxtails. Brown slightly and add two quarts of water, one carrot, one onion, celery, salt to taste and one-quarter of a bay leaf; cook slowly three hours; remove the vegetables and serve with the oxtails left in.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 77 ig. Veal Soup.—Put a knuckle of veal in three quarts of cold water, with one table- spoonful of uncooked rice, one onion, celery, salt to taste, and simmer four hours. Beat the yolk of one egg in one cup of milk, and put in the soup tureen with a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut. Strain the boiling soup over it, beat well a minute, and serve. 20. Mock Turtle Soup.—Boil a calf’s liver and heart with a knuckle of veal for three or four hours, skimming well, then strain off. Chop the meat fine, and add to it a chopped onion, salt, and ground cloves to taste, thickening, if necessary, with a little browned flour, cooking again in the liquor. Have the yolks of four or five hard boiled eggs cut up for the tureen; also slices of lemon. 21. Chicken or Turkey Soup (i).—Cover the bones, skin, etc., left from roast chickens or turkey with cold water, add one onion, a little celery, one-quarter of a bay leaf, bit of red pepper, and cook three or four hours. Strain, skim off the fat, add salt to taste and one cup of cooked rice, heat' well and serve in cups with toast. 22. German Chicken Soup (2).—Cut up the entire chicken at the joints. Put on in cold78 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. water and boil on a slow fire three hours, then take the meat out of the vessel and remove all the meat from the bones, chop it very fine, or better still, put it' through a meat cutter and cut as fine as possible; then put the meat in a saucepan and strain the soup on it. Cut three onions and a small bunch of parsley leaves and add to the soup five minutes before serving. 23. Oyster Soup.—Strain the liquor from one quart of oysters, and examine the oysters, to be sure they are free from bits of shell; Ideat one quart of milk and thicken it with cracker dust. Add a pinch of mace, salt to taste. Heat the liquor, and cook the oysters in it just long enough to ruffle the edges, three to five minutes. Mix with the boiling milk and serve at once with oyster crackers. 24. Clam Soup.—Drain the liquor from one pint of clams and let it boil. Skim, and add the clams, chopped; heat one quart’ of milk, season to taste, thicken with two tablespoon- fuls of flour and one of butter rubbed well to- gether, and just before serving stir in the clams and liquor. If a very strong clam flavor is de- sired use one quart of clams. 25. German Milk-Soup.—Put one teaspoon^79 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. ful butter in a frying-pan; when the butter is very hot, put in four slices of whole-wheat bread one-quarter inch thick; brown the bread in both sides; take the pan off the fire and let it cool a bit, then put one-half cup of hot water in it; and when the water boils add one cup of sweet milk; when the milk and water come to a boil, add a little salt, and immediately re- move the pan from the stove.1 CHAPTER VIII. FISH AND SHELLFISH. In selecting fish, take care to see that' it is solid and hard to the touch, with red gills and the eyes full, which are indications that if is fresh. In boiling fish, tie it in a clean cloth 'and put it in salted water, boiling it until done and then removing it at once. Serve always on a hot platter and with hof plates. 1. Boiled Codfish, Halibut, or Salmon.— Wash the fish, wipe dry, dredge with flour, sew or tie in a clean cloth ; put in boiling water and boil fifteen minutes to every pound. Serve with drawn butter, egg sauce or cream sauce. 2. Stewed Eels.—Fry two slices of salt pork in a pan a few minutes, then put in a layer of sliced potatoes and one of eels, cut in pieces, season each layer and add just enough water8l THE PHYSICAL CULTLTRE COOK BOOK. to prevent burning; cover and set on the back of the stove to cook slowly. 3. Broiled Shad, Bluefish or Mackerel.— Wash, wipe and split the fish; sprinkle with salt and pepper and place inside down on a buttered gridiron; when this side is brown, turn. A medium-sized fish will take about twenty minutes. Serve with butter or with maitre d’hotel, tartare or tomato sauce. 4. Broiled Halibut Steaks.—Season the slices and lay in melted butter; roll in flour and broil twelve minutes or so. Serve with parsley and slices of lemon. 5. Fried Halibut Steaks.—Salt, dip in flour and cook in enough boiling oil to cover until brown. 6. Fried Smelts, Brook Trout, Perch, and Other Small Fish.—Put' butter in a pan and heat; cook the fish brown and serve, garnished with parsley and lemon; or, fry some slices of salt pork in a pan until brown; take out, put in enough fish to cover the bottom of the pan and fry brown. 7* Fried Bluefish or Shad.——Cut into pieces.82 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. salt, dip in egg and bread crumbs and cook in enough boiling oil to cover. 8. Baked Bluefish, or Shad.—Cut gashes across the fish, in which put narrow strips of salt pork; dredge the fish with flour, season with salt and pepper; put in a baking pan,cover the bottom of the pan with hot water, and bake one hour; baste often and add a little water if the pan gets dry. Serve with Hol- landaise sauce. 9. Fish a la Creme.—Aii}^ white-flesh fish left from yesterday’s dinner will serve for this dish; make a drawn butter sauce. No. 2, put a layer of shredded fish in a dish, pour over half the sauce, add another layer of fish, the rest of the sauce, and sprinkle bread crumbs over the top; dot with butter and brown quickly in a hot oven. This dish is delicious, baked in individual shells or ramekins, for luncheon. 10. Philadelphia Oysters (Delicious).— Drain fifteen oysters from their liquor and dry thoroughly; put in a frying pan with two ta- blespoonfuls of butter and brown; take out and pour into the pan the liquor, season and heat, and serve poured over the browned oys- ters.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 83 11. Panned Oysters.—Put an ounce of but- ter in a pan with two saltspoonfuls of salt, lay in two dozen oysters, cover and cook until the edges curl, four or five minutes. 12. Oysters Roasted in the Shell.—Wash the shells thoroughly, put in a dripping pan and roast in a hot oven fifteen minutes, or until the shells open. Serve at once on hot plates. The full flavor of the oyster is retained by this method of cooking them. 13. Stewed Oysters.—-Drain the liquor from one quart of oysters, and put on the fire with one-half cup hot water and a little salt; boil up once, skim, and add the oysters. Let them cook four or five minutes and add one-half cup of boiling milk and two tablespoonfuls of but- ter, and serve at once. 14. Broiled Oysters.—Wipe the oysters dry and broil over a buttered gridiron over a hot fire. Serve with a little butter and salt on each or with cream sauce. 15. Scalloped Oysters.—Drain the juice from one quart of oysters and carefully re- move all bits of shell from them; butter a deep pudding dish, cover the bottom with cracker crumbs (not too fine), season with salt, then84 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. a layer of oysters seasoned, a layer of crackers then oysters until the oysters are used. Put cracker crumbs on top with bits of butter. Pour over the oyster liquor strained and one cup of milk, and bake one-half hour in a hot oven. 16. Oysters a la Providence.—Melt two ta- blespoonfuls butter and add four tablespoon- fuls chopped mushrooms; cook two minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls flour and one pint oysters; cook until the edges curl, add a few drops of onion juice, a little lemon juice and a little salt; add one beaten egg, cook until it thickens and serve on toast. 17. Oyster Omelet.—Stew one dozen oysters in their liquor, with pepper and salt, two minutes; take out the o}^sters and chop them, and if necessary to thicken, add a little flour to the sauce; put' back the oysters and set on the back part of the stove; beat four eggs very light, and add two tablespoonfuls of milk or cream; cook in a well buttered pan; when done, remove to a hot platter or deep plate and pour the oyster sauce over them. Serve hot. 18. Fricasseed Oysters.—Drain one quart' of oysters and put the liquor on to boil; thicken with one tablcspoonful of flour blended withTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 85 one tablespoonful of butter; take from the fire and add carefully the beaten yolks of two eggs; return to the fire, put in the oysters and let boil a few minutes. Serve on toast. 19. Oysters on Crackers.—Split as many crackers as desired, and butter; lay on each cracker as many oysters as it will hold; salt, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice; cover with the other half of the cracker and put in a hot oven until the crackers are browned. 20. Creamed Oysters.—Drain the juice from one pint of oysters and cook them in one-half cup of their liquor until plump; make a sauce of one-half cup of milk, one-half tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, salt and a little celery salt; mix this sauce with the oy- sters and boil up. Serve at once. 21. Clam Chowder (No. i).—Take one quar- ter pound of bacon, cut into small cubes, and brown in a skillet. Now put on the fire a pot that will hold four quarts; into this put' two quarts of hot water, and into this put the browned bacon cubes; then add one cup of finely cut carrots, and one cup of finely chopped celery, and let all boil for ten minutes; then add one cup of chopped onions, and boil all five minutes86 the physical culture cook book. more; now add two cups of raw potatoes cut in small cubes, and let the entire mixture boil until the potatoes are soft, then add one quart of strained tomatoes, one teaspoonful of thyme and salt to taste. In the meantime put tablespoonful of but- ter in a skillet and let it get very hot, then brown two tablespoonfuls of whole-wheat flour in it'; add one cup of the soup, stir for a few minutes, and pour it into the large pot. Now strain the liquid ofif twenty-five clams, chop the clams very fine, put them back into the liquid and put this into the large pot. When all comes to a boil let it boil for three minutes, and the chowder is done. When put in a cold place it will keep for several days, and will be just as delicious warmed up as fresh. 22. Clam Chowder (No. 2).—Chop fine one and a half slice's of pork and fry in a sauce- pan until crisp; drain the liquor from one quart of clams and put it' in the saucepan; when hot, add two carrots, one onion, six po- tatoes, one turnip, a little parsley, one quart tomatoes chopped fine. Let boil up, chop and add the clams, one cup hot' water, and season to taste. Cover and put back to simmer slowly two hours.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 87 23. Deviled Clams.—Drain the liquor from twenty-five clams and chop them fine; thicken one cup milk with one tablespoonful butter and two of flour, rubbed smooth; let boil up and add two tablespoonfuls dried bread crumbs and the yolks of two raw eggs; take from the fire, mix well together, add the clams and salt and pepper to taste. Fill the shells with the mixture, sprinkle with bread crumbs and brown in a hot oven.CHAPTER IX. MEAT. The value of meat as a food is a much dis- puted question, which every one must decide for himself. Too much meat is certainly not good; but' if it is to be used at all, it is essential that it be cooked properly. In order to retain the juices and flavor of meat, the albumen on the outside must be co- agulated by heat. In roasting, have the oven hot when the meat is put in, and finish cooking at a more moderate heat. In boiling, put the meat at once into boiling water for fifteen min- utes, and then set back to simmer slowly. In stewing, have the stewpan hot, put in the meat' and let it coat over before adding water. It is a good plan to save all the suet and fat from beef or veal for drippings, as this is a much more wholesome shortening than lard.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 89 Veal and pork are the hardest meats t'o di- gest; pork, especially, must be used sparingly. It is better to avoid it altogether in summer, and, unless one leads an active outdoor life, at all times. 1. Roast Beef.—The best' pieces for roasting are the sirloin rib and fillet. Rub the meat with salt, then dredge with flour; put a rack in the basting pan, set the roast on the rack and put in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; then cover the bottom of the pan with water; allow fifteen minutes to the pound if the meat is to be rare, twenty minues if moderately well done. Baste often. 2. Pot-Roast of Beef.—The top sirloin is the best piece for pot-roasting, although the round may be used. Put a piece of suet in the pan until hot; then put in the meat, and let’ it cook a few minutes on each side; season with salt, cover the pan and set on the back of the stove, to cook very slowly for one-half hour; then add one cup of hot water and cook slowly three and a half hours longer for a piece weighing about five pounds, turning occasionally. The less water used the better the meat will be; but if it cooks dry a little more must be added; when90 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. done, the meat should be brown, and a brown gravy can be made by dredging flour in the pan after the meat is taken out, and pouring in a little boiling water. 3. Beefsteak.—Never fry a steak if it can pos- sibly be helped; broil it over a clear Are, turn- ing often, for ten to fifteen minutes, according to the thickness; put on a hot platter, season with salt and pepper and bits of butter and set in the oven five minutes. If it cannot possibly be broiled, heat a pan very hot, put in the steak (without any suet or grease) and cook quickly, turning often. Proceed as for a broiled steak. 4. Delmonico Steak.—Have a thick steak cut from the top sirloin or round; heat a pot, put in some suet, then the meat and coat on both sides; then add salt to taste, one onion and one carrot’ chopped fine, and cook slowly three hours, turning often and stirring the vegetables from the bottom to prevent burn- ing; cook, if possible, without water, though if it threatens to burn, a little hot water must be added; when done, take out' the meat, add water and thicken the gravy and pour it and the vegetables over the meat, removing, of course, any bits of suet.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 91 5. Hamburg Steak.—Chop fine two pounds of round beef, form into a flat steak about one and 'a half inches thick, and squeeze a little onion juice on each side; put on a buttered broiler and broil over a hot fire. Set on a hot platter, season with salt and bits of butter, and set in the oven five minutes to draw the juices to the surface. 6. Beefstew.—Cut up two pounds of beef— the cheaper cuts may be used—^and put the pieces in a saucepan with enough boiling water to nearly cover them; one-half an onion, sliced, one sliced tomato and a little salt. Stir gently two hours; peal and quarter some potatoes, add to the stew and cook one-half hour longer. Thicken the gravy with flour and serve. 7. Bewitched Beef.—Chop fine three pounds round steak and mix with three rolled crack- ers, two tablespoonfuls salt, one beaten egg, one cup milk, and bake one hour. 8. Corned Beef.—If the beef is very salty, cover with cold water and let come to a boil; cook slowly four hours for a piece of about five pounds; if not very much corned, use boiling water; serve hot, or let the meat stand in the water until cold, and serve. If the water is not too salt, save some of it,92 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. as it makes an excellent foundation for some soups. 9. Beef Tongue (Boiled). — Soak three hours, wash, put on in cold water, and boil slowly until quite tender—say, about three and a half hours; leave in the water until cold; skin and serve, sliced. 10. Roast Lamb or Mutton.—Proceed as for roast beef, allowing twelve minutes to the pound for mutton, not quite so long for lamb. Serve with brown gravy or mint sauce. Cur- rant jelly is nice served with lamb. 11. Boiled Mutton.—Cover with boiling salted water and boil, allowing fifteen minutes to a pound. Serve with caper sauce. Save the water for the soup pot. 12. Lamb Chops.—Trim off the fat', broil over a clear fire ten or twelve minutes, put on a hot platter and season with butter, and salt. Set in the oven five minutes. Serve, if desired, around a mound of green peas. 13. Stewed Lamb a la Jardiniere.—Select a good-sized breast of lamb, and lay it in a saucepan; pour over it enough hot water to nearly cover it, and put a closely fitting lid onTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 93 the pot. While it is simmering gently, par- boil half a cupful of string or lima beans, half a cupful of green peas (fresh or canned), two small carrots cut into neat, thin slices, and a few clusters of cauliflower. When the lamb is nearly done, lay these vegetables on it; put with them two tomatoes sliced, and cook about fifteen minutes. In serving this dish arrange the vegetables around the meat, and pour over them the gravy, which should be thickened with browned flour after the meat and vege- tables have been taken from it. 14. Mutton Stew.—Cut up three or four pounds of mutton—one of the cheaper cuts as the shoulder will do—and remove the fat. Put in enough cold water to cover and stew slowly one hour, covered; then add one slice of onion, salt and stew one and a half hours longer. Thicken the gravy and pour over the meat. If green corn is in season, add the grains from one-half dozen ears one hour before serving. 15. Blanquette of Lamb.— (See blanquette of veal.) The shoulder may be used for this dish, which is delicious if properly done. 16. Mutton Cutlets.—These may be cut from the neck, and must be trimmed neatly. Dip each in melted butter, then in egg and94 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. bread crumbs; put' in a dripping pan, add a very little water and roast quickly, basting often. Serve with thickened gravy or maitre d’hotel sauce. We do not recommend veal. It is an im- mature meat, but if especially desired the best means of preparing it are as follows: 17. Roast Veal.—Salt a loin of veal, dredge with flour and put in a baking pan with a piece of suet; pour in a little water and roast, bast- ing often. Allow one-half hour to each pound, in rather slow oven. 18. Veal Cutlets No. i.—Heat a frying pan and put in some bits of suet and let them melt a little; salt the cutlets and put in the frying pan; when coated on one side, turn and coat on the other; then set’ on the back of the stove, cover the pan and let them cook very slowly three-quarters of an hour; then brown one- quarter of an hour longer, thicken the gravy and serve. 19. Veal Cutlets (2).—Cut into neat pieces, salt, dip in egg and cracker dust, and fry in butter. Serve with tomato sauce. 20. Blanquette of Veal.—Cut two pounds of lean veal off the shoulder into pieces; heat aTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 95 stewpan, wash the meat and put it in, stirring the pieces until they are coated; then add one slice onion, chopped, a little celery and salt to season; set back to simmer gently in its own juices for two and a half hours; put the meat in the center of a hot platter and set in the oven while you make a sauce by pouring one cup of milk or cream in the pan, thickening it with flour and adding one teaspoonful of lemon juice; put little heaps of green peas around the meat, and pour the sauce over all. If canned peas are used, the water must be drained from them, and they must be washed in water and put on to heat with very little water, salt and a good piece of butter. 21. Veal Potpie.—Cut two pounds shoulder or other cheap cut of veal in pieces, and brown them in a hot pan; then add salt, enough water to cover the meat, and cook slowly two and a half hours. If the water has boiled off, add a little and drop in dumplings made as follows: One and one-half cup whole wheat flour, one heaping teaspoonful baking powder, one tablespoonful butter, enough water to make a soft dough. Beat well. After the dumplings are in, keep the stew boiling, covered, for twenty minutes.g6 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 22. Veal Loaf.—Chop fine two pounds of veal, one-half pound of salt pork, mix with two eggs, salt, one cup of milk and one cup of bread crumbs, and make into a well-shaped loaf. Bake for two hours. 23. Veal Cheese.—Take equal parts of boiled veal and boiled tongue, pound each sep- arately, mix, press in a jar, cover with melted butter and keep covered in a cool place. Serve in slices for luncheon or tea. 24. Broiled Sweetbreads.—However sweet- breads are cooked, soak them first in salt and water, and then plunge in boiling water to whiten them ; wash and parboil a pair of sweet- breads for fifteen minutes and let cool; cut them in half, lengthwise, season with salt, dip in melted butter, and broil over a clear fire for five minutes. Serve with melted butter poured over them. 25. Creamed Sweetbreads. — Prepare and parboil sweetbreads—see No. 15—and chop fine with one-half dozen mushrooms; put one tablespoonful butter in a saucepan to melt; when hot, add one tablesponful flour, mix till smooth, then pour in one-half pint milk and stir until it boils. Add the sweetbreads andTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 97 mushrooms and stir five minutes, season, and serve. It is far better to avoid pork, though if you must have it the best methods and prepara- tion are as follows: 26. Roast Pork.—Make a plain stuffing and roast twenty minutes to the pound, basting often. Serve with apple sauce. 27. Baked Tenderloin of Pork.—Split four or five large tenderloins and make a stuffing of bread crumbs moistened with one table- spoonful melted butter and seasoned with salt, and a very little thyme, about one- quarter teaspoonful. Put one-half the tender- loins in a baking pan, spread stuffing on each and cover each one with another tenderloin; put in a hot oven, with some bits of suet in the pan; after twenty minutes add a little water. Roast three-quarters of an hour, bast- ing frequently. Thicken the gravy and serve with apple sauce. 28. Boiled Ham.—Soak over night, wash well and boil sowly in plenty of cold water four or five hours, according to size. Leave in the water until cold, then remove skin.98 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. RECHAUFFES. 2Q. Beef Stew.—Cut; the best of the meat left from yesterday’s roast into dice, leaving rim, etc., for soup. Put in a stewpan with any gravy which may have been left, and enough water to cover, one slice onion, a little dried celery, salt. Cook slowly for two hours; then put in some raw potatoes peeled and quar- tered, and cook one-half hour longer. If the water cooks off too much, add a little more before serving, and thicken the gravy with flour. 30. Meat Balls.—One bowl full of fine chopped cold meat; add one cup of bread 01 cracker crumbs, a little chopped onion, a little gravy mixed with the crumbs to moisten them. Season with salt, thyme or savory, and fry in balls. If there is no gravy use milk. We rec- ommend no immature meats such as lamb, veal, etc. 31. Lamb and Macaroni.—Cut lean cooked lamb into bits, boil one-half package (or one- half pound) macaroni for one hour. Put a layer of macaroni in a baking dish, season, cover with a layer of meat, then add another layer of macaroni, then more meat. Cover with bread crumbs, season and put on some99 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. bits of blitter; add one cup of gravy, or gravy and water, or milk, and bake one-half to three- quarters of an hour. Serve with tomato sauce No. I. 32. Lamb Croquettes.—Take one cupful cold lamb, chopped, one cupful cold boiled rice, one egg, two tablespoonfuls cream or milk, a few drops onion juice, salt; mix and cook in boil- ing oil or fat. 33. Veal Croquettes.—Cut away fat and gristle from the meat, and chop fine. Take one cupful veal, one cupful breadcrumbs, one egg, one-half cupful milk, a few drops onion juice, salt, heat the milk, veal and crumbs, and add egg and seasoning. The result should be a mixture soft enough to drop from a spoon. Set aside to cool. When cold, form into cro- quettes, dip in egg and then in fine cracker crumbs and fry in hot fat'. 34. Minced Veal on Toast.—Put chopped veal on the stove with a little butter, salt and enough gravy or milk to moisten well. Cook for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve on toast. 35. Rechauffee of Veal.—Chop cold veal, not too fine, and add any gravy which may be left. Season and set aside, At dinner timelOO THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. make a cream sauce of two cups of milk thick- ened with two tablespoonfuls flour rubbed in one tablespoonful butter; add to it two cups chopped veal, one-half can French mushrooms cut in half (these may be omitted if desired) : cover, and heat thoroughly, but do not boil, as this toughens the mushrooms. Serve on hot toast, garnish with parsley.CHAPTER X. POULTRY AND GAME, Poultry, to be at its best, should be drawn and picked as soon as it is killed, but not eaten for six or eig'lit hours. If, however, they must be bought in the city markets, get them as fresh as possible, and select them carefully. If they are drawn at the butcher shop, it will be necessary to examine them carefully and see that the lungs and windpipe are not left in, as they usually are. I. Roast Turkey.—Wash the turkey inside and out, wipe and singe the pin feathers. Make a stuffing as follows: Crumb up one loaf of stale bread and (put the crusts in a bowl of water and wring out dry) moisten one table- spoonful butter, season with salt and one-half teaspoonful thyme; stuff the turkey and sew up; salt the turkey and put in baking pan, preferably a double baking pan, with a cup102 the physical culture cook book. of hot water; roast, if good sized, three or four hours. Much depends on the age of the fowl, basting frequently unless a double pan is used. Be careful not to let the pan get dry and so burn the turkey. When done, place on a hot platter and make a gravy by pouring one and a half cups hot water into the pan and thick- ening it with flour. Strain and add the giblets, which have been stewed till tender, and chopped. If the turkey is fat, drain the grease from the pan before making the gravy. 2. Oyster Stuffing.—Chop one pint oysters, mix with bread crumbs, salt, one-half table- spoonful butter, thyme, and moisten with the oyster liquor. 3. Boiled Turkey.—Wash, dry the turkey and put the liver and heart under the wing; wrap in a clean cloth and put in more than enough hot salted water to cover it. Let boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises. Allow twentv-five minutes to the pound. Serve with ovster sauce. 4. Ragout of Turkey, or “Turkey Hash.”— Cut’ the meat from the bones of yesterday’s turkey and put in a saucepan with the gravy that is left (with hot water to dilute it if theTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. I03 quantity be small, and a piece of butter), sea- son and stew gently for ten minutes. Serve on toast with cranberry or currant jelly. 5. Turkey Scallop.—Cut the meat from the bones, remove all skin and gristle and chop fine; put a layer of bread or cracker crumbs in a buttered baking dish, moisten slightly with milk, then spread on a layer of turkey with bits of stuffing, salt; then put another layer of crumbs, and so on, until the dish is full; have the top layer of crumbs and dot with bits of butter. Pour in any gravy that is left and add enough water to wet well. Bake three- quarters of an hour. 6. Roast Chicken.—Same as turkey. 7. Fricasseed Chicken.—Cup up two chick- ens, wash and dry carefully; put in a pot with a pint wafer, salt, cover and let simmer slowly until tender, or about one and a quarter hours if the chickens are young and tender. If they are fowls it will take longer. Take out the chickens and thicken the gravy, adding a very little water if necessary. Put pieces of toast or .stale bread on a platter, place the pieces of chicken on them and pour the gravy over all. 8. Chicken Potpie.—Prepare a chicken as104 the physical culture cook book. for fricasseeing and cook until tender; make a potpie as for veal potpie, and put over the chicken in dumplings; cook, covered, fifteen minutes. 9. Chicken Pie.—Cut up one or two chickens and proceed as for fricasseeing, thickening the gravy; line the sides of a deep dish with a crust made as follows: One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, two tablespoon- fuls drippings or other shortening, one of but- ter, milk to make a soft dough—about two cups. Put in the chicken with the gravy, cover with a top crust and cook forty minutes in a moderately hot oven. It is well to prepare the chicken the day be- fore, and when cold take ofif the fat. These chicken drippings make better shortening for the crust than either butter or lard. In fact, it makes excellent shortening for biscuit of all kinds, and should be saved for this purpose, except when the chickens are old and strong. 10. Broiled Chicken.—Select a very young, tender chicken, split down the back, wash and wipe dry, put on a buttered gridiron, inside downward; broil over a clear fire until brown, turning several times; it will take about one- half to three-quarters of an hour; when halfTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. I05 done, sprinkle with salt. Put in a hot dish, butter well and serve very hot with or without mushroom sauce. 11. Pan-Broiled Chicken.—Split as for broil- ing and put it in a baking pan with some salt and some bits of suet or butter. Roast three- quarters of an hour, basting frequently. 12. Scalloped Chicken may be made the same as turkey scallop, or cold rice may be used instead of bread crumbs. 13. Chicken Terrapin.—Chop one cold roast chicken and one parboiled sweetbread mod- erately fine. ]^lake one cupful of drawn butter sauce No. 2; put in the chicken and sweet- bread, salt to taste, heat eight minutes. Just before serving add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten. 14. Blanquette of Chicken (Delicious lunch- eon dish).— Cut two cups of cold chicken and heat in a cup of drawn butter to the boiling point. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a few tablespoonfuls of milk, add to the chicken with one tablespoonful of finely-chopped pars- ley and serve with baked potatoes. 15. Baked Chicken Omelet.—Into one cup-io6 the physical culture cook book. ful of white sauce, made as previously directed, stir a cupful of chicken, minced fine and sea- soned to taste. Beat two eggs light, yolks and whites separately. Add the yolks to the chicken mixture; last, stir in the whites light- ly, pour into a buttered pudding dish, and bake in a quick oven. GAME. 16. Roast Duck.—Wash and dry carefully; to the ordinary turkey stuffing add one table- spoonful sage, one minced onion; proceed as in roasting turkey. It will take about one hour. Serve with currant jelly. 17. Roast Goose.—Same as duck. It will take about two hours to roast. Serve with cranberry or apple sauce. 18. Broiled Quail.—Split down the back and broil on a buttered gridiron, turning each side to the fire. ig. Roast Quail, Pigeons, Partridge.—Clean and wipe dry and roast in a quick oven about' one-half hour, basting often. 20. Grouse au Cresson.—Pick, singe and truss the birds, tying a piece of slitted fat ba- con over the breast of each ; roast for fifteenTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 107 minutes and garnish with watercress. Serve with bread sauce and gravy. 21. Roast Venison.—Take a leg of well-kept venison, wipe thoroughly, rub a little salt over it, dredge with flour. Place it in dripping pan with ragged piece you have cut off, and a little water. Put small bits of butter here and there over meat, set in oven and baste frequently until done. Serve with currant jelly. 22. Roast Rabbits.—Skin and clean with great care, and wash a pair of fat rabbits (or hares), stuff with a force-meat of crumbs seasoned with butter, onion, thyme, pepper and salt. Sew up with fine thread, bind the legs to the body in a kneeling posture, and place in dripping pan. Pour over them one cupful boiling water, and invert another pan over them to keep them in. Baste with butter twice, with their own gravy twice, and twice again with butter. Just before you take them up dredge with flour and give a final baste with butter. Dish when threads have been cut and drawn out. Thicken and season the gravy.CHAPTER XL MEAT AND FISH SAUCES. Meat Sauces. 1. Tomato Sauce.—One-half can tomatoes, one tablespoonfnl flour, one slice onion; cook tomatoes and onion ten minutes and add the flour blended with one tablespoonful butter; when thick, add salt to taste, one teaspoonful sugar, and strain. Nice for meat, fish or mac- aroni. 2. Tomato Cream Sauce.—Cook half a can of tomatoes with one stalk of celery, a slice of onion and a bit of bay leaf, for twenty minutes. Add half a saltspoonfnl of soda and strain. Make a cupful of cream sauce by melting a tablespoonful of butter and adding a table- spoonful of flour and a cupful of cream or milk, and just before serving combine with the to- mato. Season to taste. The soda will make the sauce less liable to separate.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. I09 3. Mint Sauce (For boiled mutton).—One- quarter pint of vinegar, four tablespoonfuls of chopped meat, and two of sugar; let stand for an hour or more before using. 4. Caper Sauce (For lamb or mutton). i\Iake a drawn butter No. 2 and add one table- spoonful of capers just before serving. 5. Sauce Bordelaise (For broiled steak).— Brown two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown again, then stir in gradually one pint of good beef stock. When thick and smooth add three tablespoon- fuls of chopped raw ham, one-half of a bay leaf and one tablespoonful of chopped onion. Cover and simmer gently for one hour, then strain. Add salt to taste, one tablespoonful of tomato catsup and one-half of a cupful of finely chopped canned or fresh mushrooms and heat a few minutes. 6. Sauce Soubise (For mutton, etc.).— Four onions chopped, one tablespoonful flour, one tablespoonful butter, one cup of the liquor in which the mutton was boiled, pepper and salt to taste. Stew the onions until very tender; drain them, and rub them through a colander; put the butter and fliQur together in a little saucepan^ cook themno the physical culture cook book. until they bubble; add the mutton liquor, which must have been cooled and skimmed; stir all together until thick and smooth; add the pepper, salt', and the strained onions. 7. Onion Sauce.—Cook three onions until tender, drain and chop. Make a drawn butter sauce No. 2 and add the chopped onions. 8. Bread Sauce.—Quarter and boil one large onion with some peppers, salt and milk till onion is quite a pulp. Pour milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the whole up together and serve. 9. Oyster Sauce.—To drawn butter sauce No. 2 add a few small oysters drained from their liquor, and a few drops of vinegar or lemon. Let come to a boil and serve (for poultry). 10. Chestnut Sauce.—Put one-half pound shelled chestnuts into boiling water for five minutes and peel; stew in gravy (or water) until tender and rub through a sieve. Season with salt and add one cup cream or milk, Boil up once and serve,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. Ill 11. Mushroom Sauce, for beefsteak,—Take a ladleful of stock; add to it part of juice from the can of mushrooms; thicken with a tea- spoonful of flour and of butter mixed; add salt to taste and a few drops of lemon juice, add the mushrooms, simmer a few minutes. 12. Apple Sauce.—Pare and slice eight apples and put into a pan with just enough water to prevent burning in; cook quickly until soft, strain through a colander and sweeten to taste; return to the fire just long enough to dissolve the sugar. A little nutmeg may be added if desired, but a rose geranium leaf, put in the bottom of the dish, with the hot apple sauce poured over it, im- parts a ver}'^ delicate flavor. 13. Cranberry Sauce or Jelly.—To a quart of cranberries add one cup of boiling water; cover closely and cook five minutes over a quick fire; crush with a wooden spoon such of the berries as have not burst and rub through a colander; put the strained pulp into the saucepan in which the berries were cooked. Add granulated sugar to sweeten and simmer five minutes, stirring constantly.112 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. FISH SAUCES. 14. Drawn Butter No. i.—One and a half teaspoonfuls flour, two ounces butter, one small cup hot water; wet the flour to a paste with cold water, and stir in the hot water. When boiling add the butter and stir until well mixed. Boil one minute. 15. Drawn Butter No. 2.—Heat one cup milk to boiling point and add one tablespoon- ful of butter rubbed to a cream with two tea- spoonfuls flour, stirring the while. Add a pinch of salt and boil one minute. 16. Cream Sauce No. i.—Heat one pint cream, or one-half milk and one-half cream, in a double boiler, with a little salt and a little chopped parsley; thicken with one tablespoon- ful butter creamed with one tablespoonful flour. Boil one minute. 17. Cream Sauce No. 2.—Put one table- spoonful butter in a saucepan, and when hot add one tablespoonful flour and stir till smooth. Add gradually one cupful milk or cream, a little salt, a few drops onion juice, and boil up once. 18. Egg Sauce.—Make a drawn butter sauce No. 2 and add two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine and a little minced parsley.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. H3 19. Hollandaise Sauce.—Rub one-half cup butter to a cream; add the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, and beat well; stir in the juice of half a lemon, one salt'spoonful salt; when ready to serve add one-half cup boiling water, place the bowl in a pan of boiling water or in the top of teakettle and cook until thick as custard, stirring all the time. 20. Sauce Tartare.—Make a mayonnaise dressing and add one tablespoonful finely chopped Gherkins pickles. 21. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce.—To one cup drawn butter No. i add one teaspoonful minced parsley and the juice of a lemon. Boil up and serve.CHAPTER XII. CHEESE, EGGS AND BREAKFAST DISHES. Cheese is a very nutritious food, containing twice as much nitrogen as meat, and three times as much fat. Plowever, it is difficult to digest, although rich cheese is easier of di- gestion than skim milk cheese. For persons who take plenty of outdoor exercise especially, cheese is a valuable article of diet'. Eggs are a perfect natural food and form a good substitute for meat. When properly cooked, they are easily digested, although a ‘‘hard-boiled” egg requires about three times as long to digest as a raw one. They are defi- cient in the carbohydrates, but the latter may be supplied by the use of bread, sugar, etc., m connection with them. So, we see that eggs make an ideal breakfast dish, since they nour- ish without overtaxing the stomach at thisTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. I15 first meal of the day. Far too often, in Amer- ica especially, breakfast is made an elaborate, hearty meal, clogging and overworking the system. It should consist, instead, of light and easily digested foods, such as fruit', cereals, eggs, whole wheat breads, etc., with little or no meat. However, variety we must have, and the menu for breakfast should be studied as carefully as for any other meal in the day. In winter, it may be slightly heavier than in summer, when fruits, cereals and bread, with perhaps a suitable beverage, would be enough. EGOS. I. Boiled Eggs.—The proper way to cook eggs, especially for invalids or persons of weak digestion, is to keep them in water at 160° to 170° F., rather than at 212°, or boiling, since the white, or albumen, of this egg is rendered much less soluble by this high tem- perature. A simple way of cooking them properly is to let the water boil, then set it back off the stove and drop in the eggs, leav- ing them for four to six minutes. Serve with fruit, toast and chocolate and you will have a perfect breakfast. One can also put the eggs in a vessel and pour the hot water on them.Il6 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. If left in long enough they will become hard- boiled, but tender. 2. Poached Eggs.—Have a pan of salted water boiling. Drop in the eggs carefully and set where they will keep hot but not boil, until the white sets. Serve on toast. It is a good plan to set' muffin rings in this pan and drop an egg in each. 3. Moulded Eggs.—On the bottom of well- buttered patty pans with straight sides sprinkle finely minced parsley and a little pepper and salt. Break an egg into each pan, set them in a large pan filled with boiling water, and bake until set. Turn out on a flat dish, and pour a white sauce over them. 4. Scrambled Eggs.—Beat six eggs slightly and salt. Put a piece of butter in the frying pan, and when hot pour in the eggs. Stir con- stantly until done. To make this dish light and juicy beat two tablespoonfuls milk with each egg. Plain Omelet (No. i).—Beat the whites of four eggs to a froth; to the four yolks add one tablespoonful of cold milk or water, salt to taste, and beat' until light. Mix the beaten whites and yolks together with a spoon. Put a spoonful of butter in an omelet pan, let the butter get hot but notTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. H7 brown, then put the eggs in, and be sure to cover with a lid. Take the pan immediately off the fire and set it on the top of a hot stove. In four or five minutes, when sufficiently done, loosen the.omelet around the edge of the pan with a palette knife, fold one-half of the omelet over the other half and serve hot on a warm dish. To make omelets light and delicious, strictly fresh eggs must be used, and the skillet in which they are made should be used exclu- sively for that purpose. In making savory omelets, the savory in- gredients should always be beaten in with the yolks. The savory ingredient may be grated cheese or raw apples; or finely chopped onions or ham, one heaping teaspoonful to each egg; or the amount may be varied to suit. 5. Omelet (No. 2).—Beat four eggs slightly and add one tablespoonful of cold water and a little salt. Heat a little butter in a pan, pour in the eggs. Shake over the fire until it be- gins to thicken, fold and serve immediately. 6. Ham Omelet.—Mix an omelet as above; add three-quarters of a cup of minced ham and proceed as before.ii8 the physical culture cook book. 7. Cheese Omelet.—Proceed as for plain omelet, only add one tablespoonful grated cheese. 8. Apple Omelet.—Stew apples as for apple sauce. Beat well with one tablespoonful but- ter, sugar to sweeten and a little cinnamon. When perfectly cold add five eggs, beaten well. Bake until brown. Eat warm, for tea, with whole-wheat bread. Grated raw apples are preferable to stewed. 9. Baked Eggs.—Thicken one scant pint milk with one and a half tablespoonful butter blended with one and a half tablespoonfuls flour and add a few drops onion juice; cut ten hard-boiled eggs in halves and arrange in a baking dish in layers, grating cheese lightly over each layer and seasoning with salt. Pour over the sauce, cover slightly with bread crumbs and brown in the oven. 10. Devilled or Stuffed Eggs.—Boil five eggs hard and put in cold water a moment to cool; cut in halves and remove the yolks; mix the yolks with one tablespoonful olive oil; salt, to taste, and a little vinegar. Fill the whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce leaves; finely chopped ham or tongue may be added if desired.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. Hp 11. Egg Timbales.—Make a custard without’ sugar, using salt and a little onion juice in- stead ; put into timbale tins, or small cups will do, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with drawn butter sauce No. 2. 12. Egg Timbales with Cheese.—Six eggs, one gill milk, salt to taste, two tablespoonfuls grated cheese; beat the eggs well without sep- arating the yolks and whites, add the milk and seasoning, stir in the cheese and pour into well-greased little tin pans with straight sides; set these in a pan of hot water and bake in the oven; when the egg is firm turn out on a flat dish, and pour a white sauce over them. 13* Eggs with Bread Sauce.—Put one cup- ful bread crumbs into a pan with one and a half cupfuls milk, one-half teaspoonful salt and one-half teaspoonful onion juice and sim- mer until thick and smooth, stirring to prevent burning. Pour the sauce into shallow dish and break in carefully one-half dozen eggs. Place in a hot oven until the eggs are set and serve at once. CHEESE. 14. Baked Cheese Omelet.—Two eggs, two cups milk, one small cup grated cheese, one small cup fine bread crumbs, salt to taste, one tablespoonful melted butter. Soak the crumbs120 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. in the milk, in which you have dissolved a tiny pinch of soda; beat the eggs light, and add to the bread and milk; stir in the butter, the sea- soning, and, last of all, the cheese. Bake in a well-greased pudding dish, and eat at once, be- fore it falls. 15. Cheese Ramekin.—Put one cup of bread crumbs and one gill of milk on the fire to boil. Stir and boil until smooth. Then put' in four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, a little piece of butter, and salt. Stir till the cheese is dis- solved, then remove from the fire. Beat two eggs, the yolks and whites separately. Stir the yolks into the mixture and then the whites of the eggs. Put in a pudding dish and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 16. Cheese Muff.—Put slices of buttered bread in a baking dish and slice some cheese on them; pour over a cup of milk mixed with two eggs and a little salt, and sprinkle some crumbs on top and bake. 17. Welsh Rarebit.—Put one tablespoonful butter in the blazer of a chafing dish, and when hot add one pound cheese grated or shaved thin; when melted add one-half cup of milk, one-quarter teaspoonful each of salt and mus-12 I THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. tard, and a pinch of soda. Stir and serve on toast. BREAKFAST DISHES. 18. Fish Cakes (No. i).—Use twice as much potatoes as codfish. Shred the fish, remov- ing all bones, etc., and pare the potatoes; put fish and potatoes in a pot, cover with water and boil until potatoes are soft. Drain off the water and mash, adding a lump of butter and one egg. Beat, form into cakes and fry. 19. Fish Cakes (No. 2).—To one large cupful of shredded fish allow six medium pared raw potatoes cut into slices; cover with boiling water and boil until potatoes are tender; drain; whip in one egg, one tablespoonful butter, and salt. 20. Creamed Codfish.—Scald and shred one cup fish and freshen with boiling water, and put in a pan with one pint of milk. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls flour mixed in a little cold milk and add one tablespoonful butter. Boil up and serve on toast or with potatoes. 21. Creamed Fish.—Separate the meat from the bones of any fish that may be left from dinner, and place one side. Break into a bowl one or two eggs, according to amount122 the physical CULTURE COOK BOOK. of fish; add salt and one teaspoonful of plain flour; mix thoroughly. Pour into a frying pan in which is a little hot butter. Stir until hot. Serve on toast. Add a few drops lemon juice if desired. 22. Hash.—Corned beef makes the best hash, and pot roast comes next. Roast beef is not so good. Take two cups cold boiled pota- toes, chopped, and one cup chopped meat; put in frying pan with one-half to one-cpiarter cup- ful of the water the corned beef was boiled in, according as it is more or less salty (or use water if other meat is used), one tablespoonful butter, and cook gently twenty minutes. If you wish it browned have another pan hot, put in a bit of butter, then the hash, and brown. Serve with poached eggs if desired. 23. Creamed Dried Beef.—One tablespoon- ful butter, browned in a frying pan; put in about one-half pound chipped beef, and let get thoroughly hot. Pour in about' one cup milk, and thicken with a little flour and water. Scrambled eggs put around the beef are a nice addition to it'. 24. Ham Patties.—One pint of ham, which has been previously cooked, mix with two parts of bread crumbs, wet with m.ilk. Put the123 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. batter in gem pans, break one egg over each, sprinkle the top thickly with cracker crumbs, and bake until browned over. A nice break- fast dish. 25. Ham and Eggs.—Have the ham sliced very thin, and broil over a clear fire two min- utes on each side. Cook the eggs in two table- spoonfuls of sweet oil. 26. Bacon and Eggs.—The best way to cook bacon is to slice it thin, remove the rind, lay the slices on a wire broiler and put this in a dripping pan in a hot oven until crisp and brown. Serve with poached eggs.124 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. CEREALS. Cereals should be served often for break- fast, and there are so many delicious and wholesome varieties nowadays that there is no excuse for serving the same thing day after day. It is well to have several different grains in the pantry, and to alternate them. The}'’ will keep well if transferred from the original packages to glass jars, which should be labeled for convenience. The directions which are supplied with the different cereals are generally best not fol- lowed. They seldom recommend long enough cooking. The usual fifteen minutes of the re- ceipt must always be lengthened to half an hour, while an hour’s steaming is better still. Do not serve oat-meal in summer, as it is too heating. Cereal served with stewed fruits, dates, etc., make a pleasant change from the beaten track, and are usually relished by children. 27. Indian Meal Mush.—Have one quart of water boiling fast and stir in slowly one cup- ful Indian meal. Boil one hour.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 125 28. Rolled Oats.—Place on stove in milk, salt to taste, bring to a boil and set off immediately. Serve as soon as sufficiently cool. We do not consider oatmeal a particularly valuable food. It can scarcely be cooked too long. A good way is to put one cup meal into four cups boiling water and set on the back of the stove over night. 29. Rolled-Oats Baked.—Steep rolled oats in sufficient sweet milk to cover it; season with salt and nutmeg to taste; put the mixture in a cool place or in an ice-chest for about one and a half hours, to prevent the milk from curdling and to allow the oats to absorb the milk. Butter a bread pan, pour the mixture into it, put small lumps of butter over the top of it, and bake in an oven of medium temperature for from 40 to 50 minutes. Cut it in slices, and serve hot on warm plates. 30. Hominy.—Into three and a half cups of boiling salted water stir one cupful fine hom- iny; steam or cook slowly four hours; slow, long cooking improves it, though hominy may be cooked by boiling one hour. 31. Figs and Hominy.—Wash enough figs126 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. or dates to suffice for the family; simmer about five minutes in water; drain off the liquid and place them about a shaped mound of steamed hominy. Pass plain cream with this dish. 32. Steamed Apples with Oatmeal.—Care- fully pare and core three tender apples; place each in a buttered cup; fill centers with sugar and steam until quite tender; place on hot dish with freshly cooked oat-meal, placing a spoon- ful in each cavity; then serve with plain cream or powdered sugar.CHAPTER XIII. SALADS AND SANDWICHES. Salads should receive more attention than they ordinarily do. They are very wholesome, particularly the simpler ones of lettuce, cress, green vegetables, etc. Especially in hot weather, when the appetite craves light and refreshing food, salads should be used instead of the richer and heavier dishes and sweet pud- dings, etc. Always make sure the vegetables for salads are fresh; wash them carefully and put into cold water until ready to use them. Never put salt or oil on lettuce until just as it is served. In making dressings, do not season too highly, nor use much vinegar, as the flavor of the salad is lost by drenching it in condi- ments. Lemon juice is nicer than vinegar for128 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. ordinary salads, and should certainly be sub- stituted in all fruit salads. Mayonnaise is easily made if certain pre- cautions are observed. Have the oil and eggs ice cold, and pour the oil in drop by drop until the eggs have thickened, when it’ can be poured faster. If, in spite of every care, the dressing curdles, set it aside and make some more, when the other can be added with impunity. SALADS. 1. Potato Salad (No. i).—One quart of po- tatoes boiled with skins on, one-half white onion, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, pepper and salt, and a little parsley, one-half cup of weak vinegar. After potatoes are cold cut up in small pieces. Chop the onion and parsley fine and mix all together. 2. Potato Salad (2).—Cut six cold potatoes into slices and put in salad bowl with a little chopped celery ; sprinkle over one teaspoonful parsley, onion juices, salt and pepper; stir one cup cream until smooth, and pour over and mix with the potatoes. 3. Cauliflower Salad.—Divide a boiled cauli- flower into flowerets of equal size while it isTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK, 129 hot. Cover it with a salad dressing of three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two of oil, a tea- spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Put the cauliflower on a platter, with a second platter inverted over it. When it is cold, ar- range it in pyramidal form on a salad dish and mask it with mayonnaise dressing. Cold boiled cauliflower makes a most delicious salad chilled on the ice and dressed with three ta- blespoonfuls of vinegar and three of oil, salt and a teaspoonful of minced parsley. 4. Cabbage Salad.—Two large raw eggs well beaten, six tablespoonfuls of cream, one- half teaspoonful salt, six teaspoonfuls of vin- egar and a small piece of butter. Put on the fire and cook, stirring constantly until quite thick. Have a half head of cabbage chopped fine, sprinkled with salt. Add to the dressing when cold, two tablespoonfuls of cream and pour over the cabbage. 5. Tomato Salad (i).—Peel and slice fully ripe tomatoes; let them stand for five minutes to drain off the juice; then set them away on ice. When served, cut up the slices, and to each pint of tomato allow four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, the yolk of one egg, and enough salt, and mustard, to season highly. Stir the dress-130 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. ing lightly through the tomatoes, and serve very cold. 6. Tomato Salad (2) (A very pretty dish). Wash thoroughly and dry carefully a head of lettuce. Pour scalding water over tomatoes a moment, and skin them. Put a whole tomato on a leaf or two of lettuce and pour a little mayonnaise dressing on each. 7. Beet Salad.—Boil beets until tender. When cold, skin and cut off a slice from the stem and, so that they will stand, scoop out the centers and fill with lemon juice and let stand a while. When ready to serve, pour out and fill the centers with chopped celery and mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. 8. Watercress, Lettuce.—Wash and wipe carefully and serve with French dressing. 9. Winter Salad.—One cup boiled spinach, one-half small onion cut fine, one cup cold boiled potatoes sliced and seasoned, one-half cup blanched and boiled chestnuts cut fine, juice of one lemon. When ready to serve, place on lettuce with mayonnaise. 10. Asparagus Salad,—-Add one-half cupful ofTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. I3I rich, grated cheese to two cupfuls of hot cream and a little salt; when melted add three beaten egg yolks and stiffly beaten whites of two; line buttered mold with canned asparagus, turn in the cheese cream, adding chopped as- paragus ; set in pan of water in slow oven for thirty minutes. Chill, unmold, serve with horseradish and lemon juice. 11. Vegetable Salad.—Cold cooked peas, po- tatoes, carrots, beets, string beans, asparagus, raw tomatoes and lettuce may be used for this salad, or one or more vegetables may be omit- ted. Cut the vegetables in small slices, mix and serve on lettuce leaves with salt, oil and a little lemon juice, or with a mayon- naise. This is an excellent way to dispose of left-over vegetables in summer. 12. Apple Salad.—Chop one cup each tart apples (peeled and cored), and English wal- nuts or other nuts, one cup celery. Serve with dressing made as follows: Rub two slightly rounded tablespoonfuls of nut butter smooth with two-thirds of a cupful of cold water and add half a teaspoonful of salt. Let all boil to- gether for a moment, then remove from the fire, and add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. .Set on ice to get very cold, then pour over the salad. Garnish with celery.132 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 13. Nut and Orange Salad.—Slice tart or- anges and blanch English walnuts or chest- nuts. Chop the nuts, mix with the orange slices, and serve with French dressing. 14. Nut and Chicken Salad.—Cut one pint chicken and one pint celery into dice, add twenty-four blanched English walnuts. Pour over this one cup French dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves with a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing to each leaf. 15. French Fruit Salad.—Peel and cut up two oranges, skin and seed two dozen white grapes, slice three bananas, shell and halve one dozen English walnuts; mix, arrange on lettuce leaves and cover with mayonnaise. 16. Chestnut Salad.—Cut two cups boiled and blanched chestnuts into slices, arrange on lettuce leaves, put over some mayonnaise and garnish with slices of orange. 17. Chicken Salad.—Boil one chicken and cut up into pieces. To each pint chicken, allow one pint chopped celery and set to cool. Make a mayonnaise dressing, mix half the mayonnaise with the chicken and celery and pour the rest over it. Garnish with white celery leaves and olives,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 133 i8. Lobster Salad.—Cut the meat of two small lobsters into small pieces. Add a little of the fat and coral. Then season with salt and pour over enough mayonnaise dressing to moisten well. Put in the middle of a platter, garnish with lettuce leaves, pour over the remainder of the dressing, and put slices of boiled egg and olives over the top. ig. Oyster Salad.—Let fifty small oysters just come to a boil in their own liquor. Skim and strain. Season the oysters with three table- spoonfuls of vinegar, one of oil, one-half tea- spoonful of salt, and place on ice for two hours. Cut up a pint of celery, using only the tender part, and when ready to serve mix with the oysters, adding about one-half pint of mayon- naise dressing. Arrange in a salad dish. Pour over another one-half pint of dressing, and garnish with white celery leaves. SALAD DRESSINGS. 1. Mayonnaise Dressing.—Mix together one teaspoonful each of powdered sugar, salt, dry mustard and the yolks of two eggs. Add drop by drop one pint olive oil, stirring constantly. Last, thin with two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar. 2. French Dressing (Best).—Take for aTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. heaped soup plate full of salad, a level tea- spoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls of oil and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Put the salt in a deep dish, then the lemon juice, mix the two thoroughly with your salad fork, and then pour in the oil and beat thoroughly with fork until oil and juice is combined, then pour over salad, mixing thoroughly. 3. Dressing without Oil (No. i).—Take six tablespoonfuls of mild vinegar, one level tea- spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of mixed mustard, one rounded teaspoonful of butter. Heat just enough to melt the butter, then beat smooth. 4. Dressing without Oil (No. 2).—Boil three eggs for half an hour. Remove the yolks and crush them to a powder with half a teaspoon- ful of dry mustard, one teaspoonful of salt; then mix to a paste with two tablespoonfuls of oil or melted butter, and thin with four table- spoonfuls of vinegar. 5. Boiled Salad Dressing (No. i).—To six tablespoonfuls vinegar add one teaspoonful salt and one-half teaspoonful mixed mustard, two teaspoonfuls oil or melted butter, and two raw eggs. Beat smooth, set the dish in a pan of boiling water, and cook until the dressingTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 135 thickens. Keep in a cool place. If put into bottles when hot and tightly corked, it will keep several weeks in the ice-box. 6. Boiled Salad Dressing (No. 2).—Stir to- gether a tablespoonful each of salt, oil and sugar. Add a teaspoonful of mustard and three raw eggs stirred in one by one. Then add slowl}^ one-half cup vinegar, and finally one cup of milk. Put all these ingredients in a double boiler and stir until it thickens, or about ten minutes. The viiiiegar will not curdle the milk if mixed just as above. Bottle, and keep in a cold place. Very nice for summer salads. SANDWICHES. 1. Salad Sandwich.—Pound cold chicken and tongue to a paste in a mortar; add a little celery salt and mix with mayonnaise enough to make a good paste. Put a lettuce leaf on a thin slice of bread, spread on some of the mix- ture, add a little mayonnaise and another slice of bread. 2. Lettuce Sandwich.—Make sandwiches by putting a crisp lettuce leaf dipped in vinegar and then shaken on bread and butter and add- ing a teaspoonful of mayonnaise.136 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 3. Peanut Sandwiches.—Shell the nuts and rub off the brown skin. Roll them under the pastry roller and season with a little salt; mix with a little mayonnaise. Spread them on delicate slices of buttered brown bread and you will find them delicious. Almonds and English walnuts may be used instead. 4. Brown Bread Sandwiches.—Spread cot- tage cheese on thin slices of Boston brown bread. 5. Nut and Date Sandwiches.—Spread thin slices of bread and butter with chopped dates, and new walnuts, mixed with a little cream. 6. Olive SandvAches.—Mix together finely chopped olives and nut butter and spread on whole wheat bread. 7. Nut Butter Sandwiches.—Put the nut butter into a bowl, add a little water and rub in until the butter is smooth. Spread on brown bread. Salt may be added if desired. 8. Baked Bean Sandwich.—Press one-half cup baked beans through a cullender. Mix with one teaspoonful each A parsley and cel-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. I37 ery, minced fine, one-half teaspoonful onion juice, one tablespoonful horse-radish or to- mato catsup. Spread entire wheat bread with butter, and then with the mixture, and add the other slice of bread and butter. 9. Roast Beef Sandwich.—Chop cold roast beef fine and season; mix with a little catsup, a little melted butter, and make sandwiches, using buttered whole wheat bread. 10. Egg Sandwiches.—Rub to a paste the yolks of six eggs and mix with two tablespoon- fuls olive oil or cream, salt, spread on white or brown bread. 11. Celery Sandwich.—Cut celery into small pieces, mix with mayonnaise dressing, spread on bread and butter. 12. Rolled Fig Sandwiches.—Scrape out one dozen figs and reject the skins; work to a paste. Butter thin slices of bread, spread with the paste, roll and wrap in oiled paper, twist- ing the ends. Sandwiches of orange marma- lade can be made in the same way. 13. Cream Cheese Sandwiches.—Mix one tablespoonful butter, yolks of two hard-boiled138 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. eggs, and cream or pot'-cheese. Season and spread between saltines or thin water crackers. 14. Jam Sandwiches.—Spread bread with jam or jelly, and sprinkle on English walnuts, chopped fine.CHAPTER XIV. FRUITS AND NUTS. Fruit is best, of course, eaten raw, but cooked fruit is better than no fruit at all. One way or the other, it should form a large part of our diet, since it is most healthful. If the fruit is fresh and ripe, serve it raw. Arrange it daintily and tastefully, and it is sure to be appreciated. Serve oranges or grapes at the beginning of a meal; they go equally well with breakfast, luncheon or dinner, and their medic- inal properties are well known. Stewed fruits should follow the meal, unless they are used at breakfast, when they may accompany the cereal. Bananas are so hearty that they made a nice desert with a light meal, as lunch- eon. Nuts have not, until lately, been appreciated at their true value as articles of food, chiefly because of their general indigestibility. If,140 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. however, they are boiled, they will be found much more digestible. The many nut foods on the market may be used to make various dishes or the ordinary nuts may be bought and pre- pared at home. There is much nutriment in them, as they are rich in several of the food elements, particularly the fats. Apples.—This exceedingly wholesome fruit should be often used, raw preferably. Select perfect, bright-looking apples and arrange prettily with oranges or other fruit in season, and serve at beginning to any meal. 1. Baked Apples.—Wash and core a suffi- cient number of good-sized tart apples. Put a little sugar in each core (or omitted if desired) and bake in a hot oven until soft. About one- half an hour will usually suffice, but much de- pends on the apples. 2. Apple Sauce.—Pare and cut up tart ap- ples. Put in saucepan, and with just enough hot water to prevent burning and cook quick- ly until soft—about fifteen minutes. Put through colander or potato ricer, and then re- turn to the stove with enough sugar added to sweeten to taste for five minutes. A rose geranium leaf, washed well and put in theTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 141 bottom of the dish into which the sauce is poured, imparts a very delicate flavor. Cook apple sauce in graniteware, never in tin. 3. Stewed Crab Apples.—Wash a quart of crab apples, and stew twenty minutes in one pint hot water. Add one cup sugar, cook five minutes longer, and set to cool. 4. Dried Apples.—Wash carefully and stew very slowly for two to two and a half hours. 5. Baked Pears.—Wash partially ripe pears, cut in halves and remove cores. Place in small jar, add a little boiling water and cover closely. Bake in a slow oven five or six hours. When done they should be nearly dry. 6. Stewed Pears.—Peel, quarter and core the fruit. Stew slowly in enough boiling water to cover for three hours. Sweeten to taste when nearly done. 7. Steamed Pears (or other fruit).—Prepare as for baking, put in covered granite pan, and set in a pan of boiling water (or use a regular steamer) two or three hours. When nearly done, sweeten to taste. g, Stuffed Quinces,—Pare and core the142 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. fruit ; place in deep dish with half a pint each of water and sugar; fill cavities with chopped almonds or English walnuts and raisins; cover and bake tender; set away in a cool place to chill thoroughly, and serve. Peaches are best served raw. Send to the table whole, arranged prettily. Peel and cut up just before using, as they are apt to turn dark. Serve as a dessert, plain, or with sugar and cream, but do not put the sugar over the fruit before it goes to the table, as it extracts the juices and detracts from the flavor. 9. Stewed Dried Peaches or Apricots.— Wash carefully, stew in enough water to cover until tender, or about an hour. 10. Pineapple.—To prepare pineapples for the table, peel with a very sharp knife and re- move the “eyes” with an apple corer. Slice and cut up with a silver knife and sprinkle with sugar before serving. 11. Oranges, cut up with sliced bananas, make a nice desert. Or serve cut in halves, to be eaten with a spoon as a first course. 12. Berries should not be washed. If it is absolutely necessary, wash quickly just before serving and drain in a colander a few mo-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 143 ments. Above all, do not sprinkle sugar over berries before serving, which will induce fer- mentation as well as destroy the flavor of the fruit. 13. Stewed Rhubarb.—Wash and cut up into pieces without peeling, and stew in enough water to prevent burning—say a cup- ful of water to two bunches of pie plant—fif- teen minutes. This is a very wholesome dish, particularly in the spring, when it is first seen in our markets. 14. Baked Bananas (No. i).—Peel and cut in slices lengthwise four bananas, sprinkle over them one-quarter cup sugar, two tablespoon- fuls lemon juice, one tablespoonful melted butter, and bake one-half hour. 15. Baked Bananas (No. 2).—In preparing baked bananas strip the skin from one side of each and loosen the remainder all round the fruit. Arrange on a baking dish, sprinkle each with a teaspoonful of sugar and a few drops of lemon juice and bake in a quick oven until tender. When properly prepared the skin sur- rounding the banana will be filled with a rich syrup which will jelly as it cools. Another way is to make a syrup of three-quarters of a144 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. cupful of water, one-quarter of a cupful of lemon juice and one-half of a cupful of sugar for half a dozen bananas. Strip off the skins, cut into quarters, place in a deep baking dish, pour over the hot syrup and bake until tender, basting several times with the syrup. 16. Cherry Salad.—Pit’ the cherries, stuff with nuts and pour over orange and lemon juice and sugar. 17. Fruit Salad.—Use pealed and sliced or- anges, pitted cherries, sliced bananas, straw- berries or raspberries, and mix in a salad bowl. Pour over a dressing of the juice of two or- anges, one lemon and sugar. Set on ice and serve very cold. 18. Stewed Prunes.—See page 222. 19. Stuffed Prunes.—Take one pound of fine large prunes, wash carefully and soak over night. Make an opening on one side of each prune, remove the stone and press in English walnuts or almonds. 20. Stuffed Dates.—Remove the stones and fill with almonds, peanuts or walnuts. Then close and roll in powdered sugar. 21. Dates with Cream.—This fruit is a veryTHE THYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 145 appetizing accompaniment to cereals and will be appreciated on warm days. It may be served for breakfast and also with a good luncheon dish. Pit the fruit carefully so as not to destroy the shape and place about a dish of whipped cream heaped in the center. 2ia. Figs and Rhubarb.—Wash half a pound pulled figs and cook in boiling water to cover until the water is nearly absorbed. Skin and cut a pound of rhubarb in inch pieces. Put a layer in a baking dish, sprinkle with sugar, add a layer of figs, repeat until all is used; put in one-fourth cup of hot water and bake in a slow oven until the rhubarb is soft. Dates or raisins may be used in the same manner. NUTS. 22. Nut Loaf.—Put’ through the food chop- per sufficient nut meats to measure one and one-half cupfuls; almonds, English walnuts, hazel and hickory nuts may be used in any proportions according to taste, also butter nuts and black walnuts, but the latter should be taken in sparing quantity because of their pro- nounced flavor. Add to the chopped nuts one pint of stale bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of salt. Mix well, add enough boiling water to moisten, cover closely and let stand for ten146 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. minutes. Now add another cupful of hot water and turn into a well-greased loaf pan. Bake for an hour in a moderate oven and serve hot with a brown sauce. 23. Boiled Chestnuts.—Remove the hard shells from the chestnuts and throv/ in boiling water for ten minutes; take out and rub off the thin dark skins and cook in boiling water until tender. Drain, season to taste, add a lump of butter and a little hot milk, and mash very fine. 24. Lyonnaise Chestnuts.—Shell and blanch one pint of chestnuts. Put a tablespoonful butter in pan, and when hot add the nuts; add a teaspoonful minced onion and brown quick- ly ; season to taste. 25. Creamed Walnuts.—Blanch one pound of shelled English walnuts. Cook slowly twenty minutes in well-seasoned white stock, or in water containing a small slice of onion, a clove, a bit of bay leaf and a stalk of celery. Drain and cover with a rich cream sauce. Serve in a deep vegetable dish, and garnish with red begonia blossoms, in a bunch. 26. Vegetable Turkey.—Mix together three cupfuls of chopped nuts, three cupfuls of dry bread crumbs, three cupfuls of milk, one table-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 14/ spoonful of nut butter dissolved in some of the milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of finely powdered sage, and three teaspoonfuls of salt. Lastly, stir in six well-beaten eggs. Bake twenty minutes in a brisk oven, and serve hot with cranberry jelly and brown gravy. Brown Gravy.—To each cupful of water take three tablespoonfuls of peanut meal, add when boiling; thicken with browned flour. Season to taste. 27. Nuttose Timbales.—Measure one-half cupful of stale bread crumbs and cook it with one cupful of milk for five minutes. Then add four level tablespoonfuls of butter, two cup- fuls of nuttose cut in small pieces, four beaten eggs, a little onion juice, and seasoning to taste. Turn the mixture into timbale molds and bake slowly in a pan of hot water until firm. Serve them with mushroom sauce. For this cut one dozen large mushrooms into strips with a silver knife. Cook them in four table- spoonfuls of butter for five minutes, dredge with three tablesponfuls of flour and add two cupfuls of cream. Cook two minutes, add a tablespoonfui of butter and seasoning to taste. 28. Roasted Almonds.—Blanch the almonds and put them into a warm oven until they are148 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. thoroughly dried and crisp; then increase the heat of the oven moderately, and allow them to become a delicate cream color (not brown) throughout. If heated too rapidly, the nuts will be tough, and when browned, an irrita- ting, poisonous acid is developed. These al- monds are much sweeter, besides being more easily digested, than the salted almonds.CHAPTER XV. DESSERTS. A simple, dainty dessert makes a pleasant finish to a meal, and often furnishes just the necessary amount of sweet food. Children especially, crave sweets, and when allowed a dessert with their dinner will not be so apt to eat candy, etc., between meals. Custards, blanc-manges, fruit puddings, fruit sauces, etc., are especially wholesome for them. Pie is digestible or not, as it is well or badly made. There are many simple pies which can be eaten with impunity, while others are quite indigestible. Pies should be used sparingly, especially in a family where there are growing children. The richer puddings, too, are not whole- some. We cannot advocate plum puddings, mince pies, etc., although we give some re- ceipts for the same for those who are willing150 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. to defy the laws of hygiene to the extent of using them. They are the simplest receipts for such dishes, which is the best we can do toward making the use of them harmless. PUDDINGS. 1. Apple Pudding.—Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced apples and pour over the top a batter made of one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of sweet milk, and one cup of flour in which has been sifted one teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven till brown. Serve with cream and sugar, or liquid sauce. Peaches are very nice served in the same way. 2. Dutch Apple Pudding.—One pint flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking pow- der, one-half teaspoonful salt. Rub one- quarter cup butter into 'the flour, beat one egg light, add to it three-quarters cup cold water, and stir into the flour. Spread in well-buttered shallow pans. Pare, core and quarter four or five sour apples, place them on the dough, and sprinkle over them two tablespoonfuls sugar. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Serve at once with lemon sauce.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 151 3. Apple Tapioca Pudding.—Soak one cup tapioca in water three hours; pare and core eight apples and fill holes with sugar; pour the tapioca over the apples, add a little cinnamon and bake about an hour. Eat with cream and sugar. 4. Bread and Apple Pudding (Good).—Six to ten slices of bread, according to size, six ap- ples, three cups milk, two eggs, a pinch of salt. Put slices of bread in the bottom of a pudding dish and cover with a layer of sliced apples, then more bread, another layer of apples, and lastly a layer of bread slices. Pour over all a custard made by beating the eggs and milk together and adding a little pinch of salt and vanila to flavor. (If the apples are not quite tart, add a little lemon juice to each layer.) Bake one-half hour in a moderate oven, and eat at once with creamy sauce. 5. “Brown Betty’’ (Good).—Pare and slice six apples; put a layer of bread crumbs into a baking dish, then add a layer of apples; sprinkle with a very little sugar and a little ground cinnamon; put another layer of bread crumbs and one of apples and so on until the dish is full, making the top layer of bread crumbs. Dot with bits of butter, pour one cup152 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. of water over it, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Eat hot, with a simple sauce. 6. Apple Dumplings (No. i).—One teacup of whole-wheat flour, half a teacup of butter, one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, one small tablespoonful of sugar, one beaten egg, a little salt and sufflcient milk to make a soft dough. Roll out half an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter and drop in boiling apple sauce. 7. Apple Dumplings (No. 2).—One quart whole-wheat flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt mixed well together. Add one large tablespoonful butter and lard mixed, and enough sweet milk or water to make a soft dough. Roll out into half- inch sheets. Peel and quarter some good tart apples; put each quarter on a square of dough, sprinkle over it sugar, and press the edges to- gether firmly. Place on a baking tin and bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. 8. Boiled Apple Pudding.—Butter a pudding mold and line it with thin, evenly-buttered slices of wheat bread; upon the bread arrange a layer of thinl}^ sliced good sour apples and sprinkle them lightly with cinnamon. Add another layer of buttered bread and another ofTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 153 apples and spice, and so continue until the mold is full, apples being placed on top. For a quart mold melt a cupful of sugar in a cup- ful of hot water, turn the syrup over the pud- ding, cover closely and steam or boil for two hours. Then turn the pudding out and serve hot with hard or liquid sauce. 9. Children's Pudding.—Make a batter of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls whole-wheat flour, one quart milk and a little salt. Peel and core six apples and put in a buttered pie dish. Pour over batter and bake one and a half hours. Serve with a sweet sauce. 10. Apple Snow.—Wash, core and bake four apples. Remo\ie skins and heat to a pulp with the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth and one-half cup powdered sugar. Make a custard sauce of the yolks of the eggs. See boiled custards. 11. Peach Brown Betty.—Same as apple brown betty, using stewed dried or cut-up raw peaches, instead of the apples. 12. Peach and Tapioca Pudding.—One small cupful tapioca, one can peaches, half cup su- gar. Soak the tapioca over night in three cup- fuls of water; the next day arrange the canned154 the physical culture cook book. peaches in a dish, pouring over them about a cupful of the liquor from the can; sprinkle them well with sugar, pour the tapioca on them, and bake until this is clear. Eat hot with hard sauce. 13. Baked Peach Pudding.—Two cups flour, one cup milk, one egg, one teaspoonful baking powder, one tablespoonful butter, saltspoonful salt', eight medium-sized peaches peeled and stoned. Beat the egg with the milk, stir in the butter melted, and the flour sifted with the salt and baking powder. Place the peaches in the bottom of a pudding dish, sprinkle them well with sugar, pour the batter over them, bake the pudding in a quick oven, and eat it before it has time to fall. Serve either hard or liquid sauce with it. 14. Delicious Peach Pudding.—Fill a pud- ding dish with whole peeled peaches, and pour over them two cups water. Cover closely, and bake until peaches are tender, then drain off the juice from the peaches, and let it stand un- til cool. Add to the juice one pint sweet milk, four well-beaten eggs, a small cup flour with one teaspoonful baking powder mixed in it, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful melted butter and a little salt. Beat well three or four minutes,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK, 155 and pour over peaches in dish. Bake until a rich brown, and serve with cream. 15. Peach Cottage Pudding.—Stir sliced peaches into a batter made of one-half cup su- gar, three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one beaten egg, one cup milk, one pint flour, and one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in a loaf, and serve with hard sauce. 16. Fruit Puff Pudding.—Mix well one pint flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder and a little salt. Make into a soft bat- ter with milk. Put into well greased cups a spoonful of batter, then one of strawberries, or any fruit preferred, then another of batter. Steam twenty minutes. Serve with liquid sauce. 17. Steamed Berry Pudding.—One cup of sugar, two eggs, one and one-half teaspoonfuis of baking powder, two cups of flour, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of berries. Steam about two hours. 18. Raspberry or Huckleberry Pudding.— Two cups raspberries—red or black—three cups flour, two eggs, two cups milk, one table- spoonful butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, saltspoonful salt. Beat the eggs very156 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. light, and mix with the butter, melted, and the milk. Stir into this the flour sifted with the salt and baking powder, taking care that the batter does not lump. Dredge the berries with flour, add them to the pudding, and boil this in a plain pudding mold, set in a pot of boiling water for three hours. Take care that the water does not come over the top of the mold. Serve with hard sauce. 19. Blackberry Pudding.—Stew blackber- ries and sweeten to taste. Butter some slices of stale bread with crusts cuts off. Then put a layer of the buttered bread in the bottom of serving dish and pour over it hot stewed fruit. Repeat until dish is full or fruit used. To be eaten cold with cream. 20. Batter Pudding.—Beat two eggs, add one cupful of milk, three and a half cupfuls of sifted flour, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and one scant cupful of canned cherries or any small fruit. Turn this into a well-greased mold, cover and place in a steam- er or pot of boiling water for two and a half hours. Serve with it a creamy sauce. 21. Cherry Pudding(Baked).—One pint milk,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 157 one pint flour, half cup sugar, one egg, two tea- spoonfuls baking powder, one pint stoned cherries. Rub together butter and sugar; add the beaten yolks of the eggs, the milk, the whipped whites, the flour, and baking powder. Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with the cherries, sprinkle with sugar, pour in the bat- ter, and bake quickly. Eat with a liquid sauce. 22. Cherry Dumplings.—Two cups flour, one cup milk, one tablespoonful butter, one t'easpoonful baking powder, a little salt. Make a paste of the above; roll it into a sheet quarter of an inch thick, and cut into four-inch squares. Put a spoonful of stoned cherries in the mid- dle of each square, sprinkle with sugar, fold the edges across, and pinch together. Bake to a light brown. 23. Boiled Cherry Pudding.—Three eggs, four heaping tablespoonfuls flour, one table- spoonful butter, one pint milk, one pint stoned cherries. Make the flour into a paste with a little milk; add the rest of the milk, the butter (melted), the beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, and the cherries. Turn into a greased mold ; cover, set in a pot of boiling water, and boil steadily for two hours, filling up the pot with boiling water, as that around the mold cooks away. Turn out carefully, and serve with hard sauce.158 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 24. Raisin or Berry Puff.—Mix thoroughly (by several siftings) one pint of flour, one-half level teaspoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; stir in one scant half pint of milk and one cupful of seeded raisins or berries. (It is easier to put the raisins in the flour before adding milk.) Steam for fifty minutes in cups. Serve with foamy sauce. 25. Huckleberry Pudding (Good).—Make a batter of one-half pint sweet milk, one pint flour, three pints berries, two teaspoonfuls bak- ing powder, two eggs, a little salt. Boil four hours and serve with hard sauce. 26. Fruit Pudding.—Mix one pint of flour into a rather thin batter, with rich cream; add salt to taste, add one gill of melted butter. Beat six eggs separately, very light; stir these in thoroughly and then add one quart of very nice, ripe berries. Pour into a well-buttered pan, and bake. Eat with hard sauce. 27. Strawberry Shortcake.—Make a rich bis- cuit dough (see Biscuits), and bake in dripping or round pan fifteen minutes. When done, split open, butter, spread each half with ber- ries, and sprinkle with sugar. Peach, orange, apple or rhubarb may be used instead of berries.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 159 28. Orange Roly-Poly.—Two cups flour, one and a half cups milk, one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful lard, two tablespoonfuls bak- ing powder, one saltspoonful salt, four fair- sized sweet oranges, half cup sugar. Sift the baking powder and the salt with the flour; rub the butter and lard into it; add the milk, and roll out the dough into a sheet about half as wide as it is long; spread this with the oranges peeled, sliced and seeded; sprinkle these with sugar; roll up the dough with the fruit inside, pinching the ends together that the juice may not run out; tie the pudding up, in a cloth, al- lowing it room to swell; drop it into a pot' of boiling water, and boil it steadily for an hour and a half; remove from the cloth, and lay on a hot dish. Eat with hard sauce. 29. Stewed Fruit Pudding.—Stew any sort of fruit or berries desired and sweeten to taste. Put slices of buttered bread in a serving dish and pour over it some of the hot stewed fruit. Put another layer of bread, then another of fruit, etc., until the dish is full. Serve cold with cream. 38. Plain Fruit Pudding.—One cup mo- lasses, one cup milk, one and a half cups flour, quarter cup seeded raisins, quarter cup cur- rants washed and dried, quarter cup shreddedl6o THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. citron, one cup suet, one saltspoonful salt, one small teaspoonful soda. Chop the suet into the flour, first mixing the latter with the salt and soda; add the milk and molasses, and beat thoroughly; dredge the fruit and stir it into the pudding; boil in a brown-bread mold two hours and a half. Serve hard sauce with it’. 31. Poor Man’s Pudding.—One cup of sweet or sour milk, one cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one pound of raisins, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, a little cinnamon, whole- wheat flour sufficient to make as thick as cake. Boil four hours without stopping in a floured bag or mold, allowing room to swell. To be eaten with sauce. 32. Grandma’s Plum Pudding.—Mix one cup molasses and one cup chopped suet and one cup hot water, three cups flour, one tablespoon mixed spices, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, three cups flour, two cups chopped raisins, two cups currants. Sprinkle the fruit with flour to prevent it sinking to the bottom of the pudding. Put in bag or buttered mold and boil three hours. Enough for eight per- sons. 33. Graham Plum Pudding.—Mix one cup molasses, one cup milk, one tablespoonful but-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. l6l ter, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one cup raisins, seeded and chopped, one-half cup currants, one beaten egg and add one and a half cups Graham flour mixed with one teaspoonful soda. Beat' well, fill butered mold and steam three hours. Serve with cream (or other) sauce. 34. Delicate Indian Pudding.—Boil one quart of milk in double boiler; sprinkle in two heaping tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, stirring the while, and cook twelve minutes, stirring often. Beat together three eggs, one tea- spoonful salt, four tablespoonfuls sugar and one-half teaspoonful ginger. Stir into the meal and milk one tablespoonful butter, and pour gradually into the egg mixture. Pour into a dish and bake slowly one hour. Serve with or without sauce. 35. Rich Indian Pudding (Delicious).—Scald one-half pint Indian meal in one and a half quarts of milk. Let cool a little and add one cup suet, two eggs, one cup raisins, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoonful salt', one tea- spoonful each of ginger and cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of flour. Mix well and bake slowly two and a half hours. 36. Simple Indian Pudding (Good).—Scald162 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. two tablespoonfuls Indian meal in one quart boiling milk; add two eggs, a little salt, three tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful but- ter. Put into a buttered mold and steam two hours. Serve with creamy sauce or maple syrup. 37. Rice Pudding (Good).—Take two table- spoonfuls rice, wash, pour boiling water over and let stand five minutes; throw off, add a cup of sugar, a little vanilla and two quarts of milk. Bake slowly about two hours, stir- ring occasionally until last half hour, then brown. 38. Steamed Rice.—One quart of sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of uncooked rice, and a lit- tle salt. Put into cups, set in a steamer over boiling water, and cook until the rice is almost’ like jelly. When cold turn out of the cups, and serve with sugar and cream or with pud- ding sauce. 39. Rice Pudding with Raisins or Dates.— Wash and soak five minutes three tablespoon- fuls rice and add one-half cup seeded raisins or dates chopped, two eggs, one-half cup sugar, and bake slowly three-quarters of an hour. 40. Bread Pudding.—One pint of fine breadTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 163 crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, grated rind of one lemon, butter the size of an egg. Bake until done. Whip the whites of the eggs stiff and beat in a cupful of sugar in which has been stirred the juice of the lemon. Spread on the pudding a layer of jelly or jam. Pour the whites of the eggs over this and replace in the oven until slightly browned. 41. Bread and Prune Pudding (Good).—Put two large slices of bread and butter in a bak- ing dish. Beat yolks of two eggs, and add one cup cooked pitted prunes, mashed, one pint milk and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Pour this mixture over the bread, and bake in a slow oven one hour, or until the custard is set. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls powdered su- gar, spread over the top and brown. 42. Prune Pudding.—One pound stewed prunes, white of four eggs, one cup sugar. After the prunes are stewed, drain off the juice, remove the stones, and chop. Beat the eggs very stiff, add the sugar gradually, beat- ing all the time, then stir in the chopped prunes. Bake twenty minutes. Serve coM with whipped cream,164 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 43. Prune Dessert.—Soak two cupfuls of prunes, then boil and stone. Put on again with three-quarters of a cupful of sugar; cook till thick, then cool. Add the beaten whites of three eggs, a pinch of salt, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of soda, and slowly bake for fif- teen minutes. 44. Prune Puff.—Three tablespoonfuls stewed, stoned, mashed prunes, sweetened with three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and all beaten gradually into the whites of three eggs, adding juice of half lemon with the last of the whites. When beaten stiff put into but- tered dish and cook twentv minutes over hot- water pan. 45. Fig Pudding.—One-fourth pound figs chopped fine, two cups bread crumbs, one cup brown sugar, one-fourth pound suet chopped fine, two eggs, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one dessertspoonful of molasses, one tablespoonful flour. Steam three hours and serve with boiled sauce, flavored with lemon. 46. Chocolate Pudding.—One pint milk, one pint bread crumbs, yolks of three eggs, five ta- blespoonfuls grated chocolate. Scald the milk, add bread crumbs and chocolate. Take from fire and add one-half cup sugar, and the beaten yolks. Bake in pudding dish fifteen minutes,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 165 Make meringue of whites of eggs and three tablespoonfuls sugar, spread over pudding, and brown. Serve cold with cream. CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGES, JELLIES, ETC. 47. Baked Custard.—Beat five eggs, five ta- blespoonfuls sugar, one quart milk, one-half t'easpoonful vanilla, and bake in a moderate oven until firm. If desired, pour the custard into cups, set in a pan of water and bake twenty minutes. 48. “Floating Island.”—One quart milk, five eggs, pinch of salt, four tablespoonfuls gran- ulated sugar, one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Put the milk in a double boiler to heat. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add the sugar. When the milk is scalding hot, stir it slowly into the eggs and sugar. (This prevents curdling, which is hard to avoid if the eggs are poured into the milk.) Pour back into the double boiler, and stir until it thickens. Then add vanilla and set aside to cool. Just before serving, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and drop on the custard in little “islands.” The addition of a little ring of cur- rant jelly to the top of each “island” is an im- provement' in both the appearance and taste of the pudding.166 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 49. Tapioca Pudding (No. i).—Soak two and a half tablespoonful tapioca in one cup water for an hour. Heat one pint milk in double boiler and when hot beat in yolks of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Add tapioca and cook one hour, stirring every few minutes. When this pudding is done put any kind of canned fruit in the bottom of another dish, pour the hot pudding over it. Cool and add one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, with two spoonfuls pow- dered sugar and stir one-half of it into pud- ding. Spread the rest on the top and brown in oven. Serve a piece of fruit with each dish. 50. Tapioca Pudding (No. 2).—Soak one- quarter cup tapioca over night. Heat one pint milk and add beaten yolks of two eggs, one- third cup sugar and tapioca, stirring con- stantly. Cook two minutes. When cool stir in beaten whites of the eggs and flavor with vanilla. 51. Tapioca Pudding (No. 3).—An even ta- blespoonful tapioca, soaked two hours in nearly a cup of milk. Stir into this the yolk of one egg, a little salt, and sugar to taste. Bake fifteen minutes. Beat white stiff, sweet- en and spread over. Eat with hard sauce if liot, or with cream if cold.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 167 52. Raspberry Tapioca Pudding.—For a small mold of this pudding there will be re- quired one pint of water, four tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one-third of a teaspoonful of salt, and a pint and a half of raspberries. Put the water in a saucepan and on the fire. When it begins to boil sprinkle in the tapioca exotique, stirring all the while. Cook for ten minutes, stirring continually; then add the su- gar, salt and lemon juice. Rinse a mold in cold water. Put a few spoonfuls of the tapioca into it; then a layer of raspberries, and again tapioca. Go on in this way until all the mate- rials are used. Set the mold in a cool place for several hours. At serving time turn the pudding out on a flat dish, and serve with su- gar and cream or soft custard. 53. Rutter Grutza (Very nice).—Stir three tablespoonfuls farina into one quart boiling water and cook one-half hour; add sugar to taste and color with the juice of raspberries. Boil about ten minutes or until thick. Put in mold to cool. Turn out and serve, surrounded by raspberries. 54. Cornstarch Pudding.—Heat one pint milk in double boiler to boiling point, and stir168 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. in one and a half tablesponfuls cornstarch wet in a little of the (cold) milk, two and a half tablespoonfuls sugar, and boil until it thickens. Then pour into mold, to cool, and serve cold with chocolate sauce or a boiled custard made as follows: Heat one pint milk to boiling in double boiler. Beat the yolks of three eggs with three tablespoonfuls sugar, and pour some of the boiling milk into them, stirring the while. Put all back into double boiler and let thicken. Flavor with vanilla and let cool. If a custard is made in this way, there will be no danger of curdling. 55. Chocolate Cornstarch.—Make the same as cornstarch pudding, but add two and one- half tablespoonfuls chocolate to the boiling milk before the cornstarch is put in. Eat with boiled custard sauce, as above. 56. Chocolate Pudding.—Put one pint milk in double boiler with one-third box gelatine, and let stand one-half hour (or until dissolved) on the back of the stove, where it will not boil. Stir two tablespoonfuls sugar, two of choco- late, and two of hot water in a saucepan over a hot fire for about a minute, when it should be smooth. Stir this into the milk and gela- tine, add small pinch salt and yolks of twoTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 169 well-beaten eggs. Put into mold. Serve cold with vanilla sauce, made as follows, just be- fore using: Beat whites of two eggs to stiff froth. Beat in one-half cup powdered sugar; add gradu- ally three tablespoonfuls milk and one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Serve at’ once. 57. Spanish Cream.—One-half box of gela- tine, one quart of milk, yolks of three eggs, one small cup of sugar; soak the gelatine in the milk for an hour, then put on the fire and stir well as it warms; beat the yolks very light with the sugar, add to the scalding milk and heat to boiling point, stirring all the time. Take from fire, and stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs; add vanilla and pour into glasses or a mold to cool. 58. Bohemian Cream.—One quart cream, two tablespoonfuls sugar, one ounce gelatine, dissolved. Whip half the cream to a stiff froth. Boil the other half with the sugar and a vanilla bean until flavor is extracted, or add vanilla extract after it is removed from the fire. Add the gelatine, and when cooled a little the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat until it begins to stiffen, then beat in quickly the whipped cream. Pour in well wet molds and set on ice.170 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 59. Strawberry Cream.—Mash one quart strawberries with one cup powdered sugar, and rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve one and one-half ounces gelatine in one pint sweet milk. Strain and add one pint whipped cream and the berry juice. Pour in a wet mold and set on ice to form. 60. Strawberry or Raspberry Sponge.—One quart strawberries or raspberries, one-half box gelatine, one and one-half cups water, one cup sugar, juice of one lemon, beaten whites of four eggs. Soak gelatine in one-half cup of the water. Mash the berries and add half the sugar to them. Boil the remainder of sugar and the cup of water gently twenty minutes. Rub berries through a hair sieve. Add gela- tine to boiling syrup, take from the fire and add berry juice. Place the bowl in pan of ice water and beat with egg beater five minutes. Add beaten whites, and beat till it begins to thicken. Pour into wet molds and set on ice. Serve with cream. 61. Orange Charlotte.—Soak half a package gelatine in half a cupful cold water; then add to a cupful boiling water juice of two oranges, juice of a lemon, a cupful sugar; set on ice and stir until thick; then fold in whip of a pint of cream and a pint of fruit cut small; pour intoTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 171 mold lined with sponge cake; when chilled through, unmold. 62. Snow Pudding.—One ounce of gelatine in one pint of water; dissolve on the stove; remove, and when nearly cold beat to a stiff froth with an egg beater. Then add the beaten whites of three eggs and five t'ablespoonfuls of white sugar, juice of two lemons; it must be long and well beaten. Serve with soft cus- tard made with the yolks and four tablespoon- fuls of sugar to a little over a pint of milk. 63. Lemon Jelly (Simple and pleasant des- sert).—Soak one-half box gelatine in one pint cold water. When dissolved, add one pint boil- ing water, juice of two lemons and a little grated rind, one-half cup sugar or more if it is desired very sweet'. Pour into porcelain or granite ironware mold. If a few ripe strawberries are added while the mixture is warm it makes a very pretty and ornamental dessert, served with whipped cream piled around it. Fill the mold half full of jelly and add some of the berries, then set on ice. When half hard add the rest of the jelly and more berries to prevent all the berries rising to the top. Let all harden. 64. Orange Jelly.—Dissolve one-half box of172 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. gelatine in one-half cup of cold water; cut one* half dozen oranges in halves, .’-emove the fruit carefully and lay the skins in cold water. Add to the pulp of the oranges the juice of two lemons, one cup of sugar and one cup of boil- ing water. Stir all together and strain. Dry the inside of the skins, fill with the jelly and stand on a tray until it begins to firm. Serve cold. 65. Tutti Frutti Jelly.—Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half pint cold water. Dissolve with one pint boiling water, add juice of three lemons, one and one-half cups sugar. Strain. When beginning to stif¥en put a layer of jelly in a dish, then a layer of sliced bananas, an- other layer of jelly, one of sliced oranges, one of jelly and one of grated cocoanut, and finish with jelly. PUDDING SAUCES. 1. Creamy Sauce.—Beat one-half cup of but- ter to a cream and add gradually one cup powdered sugar, beating the while. When light and creamy stir in one cup milk or cream, a little at a time. Beat smooth, place in a basin of boiling water and stir until creamy and foamy. 2. Hard Sauce.—Rub two cups powderedTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 173 sugar and one of butter to a cream. Add one tablespoonful of milk or cream and flavor with vanilla, or add one egg instead of milk. 3. Pudding Sauce.—Two coffee cups sugar, three-fourths of a coffee cup of butter; rub to a cream; when well mixed, stir in one-half tea cup boiled cider, a little at a time. Just before serving set in a kettle of boiling water until hot, but not boiling. 4. Substitute for Cream.—Boil three-fourths of a pint of sweet milk; beat the yolk of one egg, and a level teaspoonful of flour with sugar enough to make the cream very sweet. When the milk boils, stir this into it, and let it cool; flavor to taste. For puddings in which eggs are used, this is almost as good as rich cream, and preferable to thin cream. 5. Fruit Sauce.—Take one quart of any kind of ripe fruit, as red raspberries, strawberries, or peaches; if the latter they must be very ripe. Pare and mash the fruit with a potato masher and one cup of powdered sugar. Stir well together, and set on the fire until warm. 6. Lemon Sauce.—Three-fourths cup of su- gar, one-half cup of butter, one egg, the juice ^nd half the grated rind of one lemon, one tea-174 the physical culture cook book. spoonful of nutmeg, and one-half cup of boil- ing water. Cream the butter and sugar and beat in the egg, whipped light, the lemon and nutmeg. Beat hard, then add the water, put into a tin pail, and set within the uncovered top of the teakettle, which must' boil until the sauce is very hot, but not boiling. Stir con- stantly. 7. Chocolate Sauce (No. i).—Put one pint milk on in double boiler. Shave two ounces chocolate and put in pan with four tablespoon- fuls sugar and two of boiling water. Stir over fire until smooth and add to hot milk. Beat to- gether thoroughly yolks of four eggs, three ta- blespoonfuls sugar, small pinch salt, and then add one gill cold milk. Pour the boiling mix- ture on this, stirring well. Return to double boiler and cook five minutes, stirring the while. Set aside to cool, stirring occasionally until cold. This sauce is nice for cornstarch pudding, bread pudding, snow pudding, etc. It is also nice for a dessert served in glasses with cream. 8. Chocolate Sauce (No. 2), to serve with ice-cream, is made by covering a quarter of a box of gelatine with half a cupful of cold water; soak for half an hour. Put a pint of cream in a double boiler to heat; add to thisTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 175 two ounces of grated chocolate; cook until smooth, then beat well; add half a cup of sugar and the gelatine; strain; add a teaspoonful of vanilla and set aside to cool. ICES, ICE CREAMS AND FROZEN PUDDINGS. 1. Lemon Ice.—Squeeze six lemons and one orange and grate one rind. Strain through a bag, mix in one pint' sugar and one pint water and stir until dissolved, and freeze. 2. Orange Ice.—Use six oranges (juice of all and grated peel of three), two lemons, one pint sugar, one pint water. Proceed as for lemon ice. 3. Pineapple Ice.—Make a thin syrup, and slice the pineapple very thin and put it in the syrup; it is even better if grated. If the fruit is not obtainable, the canned may be used with excellent results, in which case make the thin syrup as above, and in the quantity wished, and add the canned pineapple. Nine persons out of ten will not’ detect the difference. 4. Grape Sherbet.—Mix together a quart of grape juice, two cupfuls of orange juice and two cupfuls of sugar. When the sugar is all dissolved, turn into a freezer and freeze. When half frozen, take out the dasher and mix well176 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. in the beaten whites of two eggs. Pack and set away to harden. 5. Sherbet.—Mix together one pint’ of milk, one pint of sugar, one pint of water and one pint of canned apricots rubbed through a sieve. Freeze. Peaches may be used instead of apri- cots. Many people do not like ice creams, and this is a good substitute, as it is more nourish- ing than regular water ices, and easy to make. 6. Pineapple Sherbet.—One tablespoonful gelatine soaked in one cup cold water fifteen minutes. Dissolve with one cup boiling water. Take one-half can grated pineapple, and one and one-half cups sugar, juice of one lemon. Add strained gelatine, put in freezer, and pack with ice and salt and freeze. 7. Vanilla Ice Cream (i).—Beat two eggs, one tablespoonful flour, one cup sugar until light. Add to one quart boiling milk and cook twenty minutes. When cold add one pint cream, tablespoonful vanilla and one cup su- gar, and freeze. 8. Vanilla Ice Cream (2).—Two quarts rich cream, one pint new milk, one pound sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. Mix well and freeze. Or put milk and one cut vanilla beanTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 177 on fire and boil slowly. Strain through a wire sieve, and when cool add cream and sugar, and freeze. 9. Chocolate Ice Cream.—One quart cream, one pint milk, two cups sugar, two eggs beaten light, five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, rubbed smooth in a little milk. Heat milk to near boiling, pour in slowly beaten eggs and sugar, then the chocolate. Cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Cool, beat in the cream, and freeze. 10. Pineapple Ice Cream.—Three pints cream, one pint milk, two ripe pineapples, two pounds sugar. Slice pineapples thin, scatter sugar over them, and let stand three hours. Cut or chop the fruit into the syrup, and strain through a bag of coarse lace. Beat gradually into the cream, and freeze. Remove a few bits of pineapple, and stir in cream when half frozen. Peach ice cream made in the same way is delicious. 11. Fruit Ice Cream.—One generous pint milk, two cups sugar, one small tablespoonful flour, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls gelatine soaked in a little cold water, one quart cream, four bananas, half a pound candied cherries and other fruit if desired. Let milk come to a boil.178 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. beat flour, sugar and eggs together and stir in boiling milk. Cook twenty minutes, then add gelatine. When cold add cream. Put in freezer, freeze ten minutes, add cup of fruit, and finish freezing. 12. Frozen Peaches.—Take two quarts peaches, peeled and sliced, sprinkle with one pound of sugar and let stand two hours. Mash fine, add one quart cold water, and freeze the same as ice cream. 13. Frozen Custard.—Put one quart of milk into a double boiler. Beat the yolks of four eggs with one cupful of sugar, then add to the hot milk. Stir over the fire for just a moment until it thickens; then pour backward and for- ward from one vessel to another until quite frothy. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla, and when cool turn into the freezer and freeze. 14. Tutti Frutti Pudding is made by putting one quart of cream in a double boiler; add to the yolks of five eggs a cup of sugar; beat until light; stir these in the hot cream. Cook a moment, take from the fire, strain, and when cool add a teaspoonful of vanilla; turn the mixture info the freezer and freeze; when frozen stir in one pint of whipped cream and one cup of cherries, chopped fine, half the quantity of pineapple, chopped fine, and threeTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 179 or four green gages. All the fruit must be soaked for an hour in orange juice. 15. Nesselrode Pudding.—Shell a pint of chestnuts, take off the skin, put them in a saucepan and cover with boiling water, boil ten minutes, and press through a colander. Shell, blanch and pound a pint of almonds. Cut a pound of candied fruits into small pieces. Put a pint of water and a pound of sugar on to boil; let boil fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks’ of six eggs until very light, add them to the boiling syrup, and stir over the fire until very hot, then take off and beat with a spoon until cool. Then add the fruit and nuts, with a ta- blespoonful of vanilla and a pint of cream. Mix well, put in a freezer and freeze. When hard stand away four or five hours before serving.l8o THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. PIES. Pies are fortunately less used for desserts than formerly. Although it is possible to make a comparatively harmless crust by avoid- ing much animal fat and taking care in mix- ing, etc., pies as a rule are rather to be avoided. Use, if possible, cream or a good vegetable oil for shortening. Make the filling for pies as simple as possible. Apple, or other fruit pies are best. Mince pie, containing as it often does meat, fruit, raisins, suet, etc., is rather a whole meal than an appropriate finish to a hearty dinner. The recipe for a simple mince pie is given, but is not recommended as a very whole- some dessert. I. Cream Crust (No. i).—A simple and di- gestible crust is made as follows: Mix and sift one and a half teacupfuls of white flour with one and a half teacupfuls of Graham or whole-wheat' flour. Moisten with one scant teacupful sweet cream, making a stitfi dough. Roll not quite so thin as for white crust. For a fruit pie, brush over the bottom crust with white of egg to keep the juice from soaking in.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. l8l 2. Pie Crust (2).—Dr. Holbrook.—For two pies use one quart sifted flour; mix in one- quarter pound butter, one teaspoonful baking powder, a pinch salt, and moisten with ice water, using as little as possible. Roll very thin. 3. Cream and Potato Crust (3).—Six pota- toes boiled and mashed, one cup sweet cream, one-half teaspoonful salt, flour enough to stif- fen ; mix quickly, roll. Work and handle as little as possible. 4. Pie Crust (4).—One cup shortening, cot- tolene and butter mixed; three cups flour; a little salt. Sift the flour, add the salt, and rub in the shortening. Use enough ice water to hold all together, handling as little as possible. Roll from you. Enough for three pies. 5. Pie Crust (5). —Mix one and one-half cups flour with one saltspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful baking powder; add one table- spoonful butter and two of cottonseed oil or nut oil; moisten with ice water. 6. Puff Paste.—One pound of butter, one pound of flour; wash the salt out of the but- ter; mix the flour with a little ice water, and salt; roll on the board and fold in the butter;182 the physical culture cook book. roll very thin and keep cool, cutting with a knife. 7. Apple Pie (No. i).—Make a cream or po- tato crust and line a pie dish. Brush over with white of egg and fill with sliced tart apples. Add three tablespoonfuls water; sprinkle with tw’O tablespoonfuls sugar, and cover with top crust, pressing the edges well together and cutting a slit in the top. Bake forty-five min- utes or until brown. (Add cinnamon if desired.) 8. Apple Pie (No. 2) (Delicious).—Line a dish with cream crust or crust No. 4 or 5, and slice in greening apples to fill. Add top crust without sweetening, and bake one hour. Re- move the crust carefully, and stir into the fill- ing sugar to sweeten, and one teaspoonful butter. Replace crust and serve warm. 9. Apple Tart.—Line a pie dish with any good crust, and fill with apple sauce (see page III). Cover with strps of pie crust and bake one-half hour, or until brown. 10. Peach Pie (Good).—Line a dish with crust and lay in peeled and sliced peaches. If peaches are very ripe, little sugar need be used. If sour, add sugar to sweeten. MoistenTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 183 with a very little water, add top crust and bake until brown, or about forty-five minutes. 11. Peach Meringue.—Line a dish with .cream crust, fill with canned peaches and bake one-half hour without a top crust’. Then add a meringue made of whites of three eggs beaten stifif with three tablespoonfuls pow- dered sugar, and brown. 12. Pineapple Pie.—Fill a crust with the fol- lowing: Cut up one pineapple, cook until soft! and sweeten. Add top crust and bake one-half hour or omit top crust, bake twenty-five min- utes, cover with meringue made as for peach meringue pie, and brown. 13. Rhubarb Pie (Good).—Fill a crust with stewed rhubarb, cover with top crust, and bake thirty minutes, or until brown. 14. Lemon Pie.—Mix together one cup su- gar, juice and rind of two lemons, one table- spoonful flour, yolks of two eggs and white of one. Add one cupful of hot water and cook in a double boiler until it thickens. Line a perforated pie dish with a rich paste, bake it in a brisk oven, pour in the lemon mixture (which should be hot) and cover with a me- ringue made with the whites of two eggs and184 THE rPIYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. two tablespoonfiils of white sugar. Set in a very slow oven for ten minutes, or until a deli- cate straw color. 15. Berry Pies.—In making berry pies it is a good plan to cut a slit in the top crust and insert a little chimney made of cornucopia- shaped paper. This will prevent the juice from boiling out. 15a. Cherry (No. i), Blackberry, Raspberry or Plum Pie.—Fill crust with ripe pitted cher- ries, or berries; sprinkle with sugar, according to tartness of the berries, add the top crust and bake thirty to forty minutes. 16. Cherry Pie (2).—Fill a deep pie dish with cherries, sprinkle them thickly with su- gar, and lay around the edge of the dish a two- inch wide strip of paste. Spread a top crust over the fruit, joining its edges to that of the strip of paste already in place. Bake in a quick oven. 17. Strawberry Meringue.—Line a pie dish with paste; bake this carefully, and then place in it a thick layer of hulled strawberries; rather small ones are best for this purpose. Sprinkle them with powdered sugar, and heap over them a meringue made of the whites ofTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 185 four eggs whipped stiff with half a cup of powdered sugar. Just before putting it in stir lightly into it a cupful of the berries. Set the pie plate containing the meringue in the oven long enough to brown delicately, and eat when perfectly cold. 18. Pumpkin Pie.—Cut a pumpkin in pieces without peeling. Scrape off the inner shreds that hold the seeds. Boil with a pint of water in a porcelain-lined kettle, for five or six hours. To four cups of pumpkin add four cups of milk, one even teaspoonful of salt, one tea- spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ginger, three eggs well beaten, and one cup of sugar. Beat the custard well and taste it' to see if it is sweet enough. Put this mixture into deep pie plates lined with pastry, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 19. Custard Pie.—Two eggs, one pint milk, a pinch salt, one-quarter cup sugar. Bake in under crust only in slow oven forty-five min- utes, or until custard is set. 20. Cocoanut Pie.—Same as above, with one-half a grated cocoanut added. The milk must be heated to boiling point and poured over the cocoanut.186 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 21. Mince Pie.—This is the English mince pie, and is more wholesome than ours, and very good. Take two pounds of finely chopped suet, four pounds of grated bread crumbs, four pounds of currants, four pounds of raisins, five pounds of brown sugar, one and one-half pounds of peel, lemon, orange and citron, six pounds of apple, weighed 'after be- ing chopped, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, one tablespoonful of mace, one tablespoonful of salt and two quarts of boiled cider. 22. Mince Meat.—Pint bowl of well-cooked lean beef chopped to the finest mince (meas- ured after chopping), two bowls of tart apples chopped into coarse bits, and half a bowl of chopped suet. Add to this a pound of seeded raisins, chopped fine, a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of citron cut in thin slices, a tablespoonful each of powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg and powdered cloves. Use enough sweet cider to make these ingredients very moist. Add a bowl of sugar and an even teaspoonful of salt. Let the mince meat boil up for ten minutes and set it away in a stone jar.CHAPTER XVI. CAKES, Rich cake is not very digestible or whole- some, but plain, simple cake, in small quanti- ties, may be used occasionally. The practice, however, of having cakes, crullers, etc., on the table at least once a day, is to be deplored. A few general directions must be followed in making cake. Always cream the butter and sugar together first and beat the eggs sep- arately. Put the baking powder into the flour and sift well. Do not make too stiflf a dough. A little flour dredged over a cake before icing it, will keep the icing from spreading and run- ning off. Keep the heat of the oven regular, having it hotter for layer cake than for loaf cake. Indeed, layer cake can hardly bake too quickly. To determine if cake is done, stick a straw into the middle and if no dough adheres188 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. to it the cake is sufficiently baked. Be careful, however, not to open the oven too soon after the cake is put in. Water is sometimes pre- ferred to milk, as it is said to make a lighter cake. 1. Plain Cake (Simple and good).—One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one-half cup milk or water, two eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder. 2. Raisin Cake.—Proceed as above. At the last add one cup raisins, dredged with flour. 3. Hickory Nut Cake.—Proceed as for plain cake, adding one cup nut meats. 4. Delicate Cake.—Cream one cupful of su- gar with one-half cupful of butter. Add three- fourths cupful of milk, two cupfuls of floui sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and the beaten whites of four eggs. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful of vanilla or almond extract. Bake in a sheet or loaf from thirty to fifty minutes. 5. White Cake.—Whites of six eggs, scant three-fourths cupful of butter, one and one- fourth cupfuls of pulverized sugar, two cup-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 189 fuls of flour, juice of one-half lemon, one- fourth teaspoonful of soda. Mix the soda well with the flour. Beat butter to a light cream, add the flour gradually with the ends of the fingers till it becomes a smooth paste. Beat stiff the whites of the eggs and mix in them the sugar, now stir the eggs and sugar gradu- ally into the flour and butter, adding also the lemon juice. Mix it all smoothly with the egg whites. Let your oven be moderate at first. This cake may be made with one teaspoonful of baking powder. While hot spread over it the following icing: A heaping teacup of pul- verized sugar to the white of one egg. Beat the white till it is slightly foaming only. Put in your sugar gradually. Flavor with lemon. 6. Angel Cake.—Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cups granulated sugar sifted once, one cup flour sifted with one teaspoonful cream of tartar four times, one teaspoonful vanilla. Bake in an ungreased pan forty minutes. When done invert pan on two cups and let stand until cake is cold. One-half this quan- tity will make one cake. 7. Gold Cake.—Yolks of eight eggs, one- half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of milk, two cups190 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 8. Marble Cake.—One-half cup butter and one cup sugar beaten to a cream, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one t'easpoonful baking powder, whites of four eggs added last. Take one cup of this mixture, add to it five tablespoonfuls grated chocolate wet with milk and flavor with vanilla. Put a layer of white batter in cake pan, drop the chocolate batter with a spoon in spots; pour over the re- maining white batter, and bake. Ice with choc- olate icing. 9. Pound Cake.—Yolks of ten eggs, whites of two well beaten. One pound butter, one pound flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, one cup milk. Add flour and whites last. 10. Huckleberry Cake (Good).—One quart flour, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two and a half teaspoonfuls baking powder, one and a half pints huckleberries, pinch salt, milk enough to make a rather stiff dough. Bake in pie plates, about twenty minutes. Serve hot for luncheon. 11. Sponge Cake.—Beat the yolks of eightTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 19I eggs well, add gradually one pint sugar and grated rind of one lemon. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to yolks and sugar al- ternately with three gills flour, stirring very gently and just enough to mix well. Then add juice of one lemon. Bake in small loaves twenty minutes. 12. Boiled Sponge Cake.—Six eggs. Beat whites first, then add yolks and beat very light. Three-quarters pound granulated sugar, one- half pound flour, one gill water, juice of one lemon. Boil sugar and water together until clear, pour into beaten eggs, beating well until cool, then add flour and lemon juice. Bake in square sheets, and cover with boiled icing. 13. White Cake.—C ream together one pound of white sugar and one pound of butter. Add by degrees one pound of warmed and sifted flour, and the beaten whites of sixteen eggs. Blanch one pound of almonds and beat them to a paste with a little rosewater, grate one cocoanut and cut into strips one pound of candied citron. Mix them well together and stir into the batter. Bake in a moderate oven till done. When cold cover sides and top thickly with cocoanut icing flavored with lemon juice, and sprinkle cocoanut over all.192 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 14. Farmer’s Fruit Cake (Good). One cup molasses, one and a half cups sugar, one cup raisins, seeded, one cup currants carefully washed, one cup butter or butter and lard mixed, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful cloves, one- quarter of a nutmeg, three eggs and flour enough to make a dough so stiff that it is hard to stir. Bake slowly. Do not try until it has been in the oven thirty minutes. 15. Centennial Cake.—Three-quarters pound butter, one and one-half pounds brown sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one pint sweet milk, one and three-quarters pounds flour and two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Three-quarters pound currants, washed and dried, one-quarter pound raisins (stoned), one-quarter pound citron, sliced, one grated nutmeg, one wine glass wine. Sprinkle fruit with part' of flour. Cream the butter with the sugar, add beaten yolks, wine, milk, nut- meg and flour and whites of eggs alternately. Put in fruit last, mix well and bake one and three-quarters hours. 16. Molasses Cake (Good).—One and one- half cups molasses, one cup boiling water, one teaspoonful ginger, one tablesponful soda dis-THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 193 solved in the hot water, two tablespoonfiils butter, flour to make like cake dough. Bake in moderate oven. 17. Aunt Rachel's Molasses Cake (Good).— One-half cup butter, one-half cup hot water, one teaspoonful soda, one cup molasses, two cups flour, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and alspice. Bake in a moderate oven. 18. Gingerbread.—One cup sugar, one of butter, one-third cup molasses, one-half cup sour milk or cream, one teaspoonful soda, one of ginger, flour enough to roll. Roll thin and bake quickly. Use no more flour than just enough to make a dough which will roll. 19. Layer Cake.—The recipe for plain cake (see page 188) make good layer cake. 20. Lemon Jelly Cake.—One cup of sugar, one scant half cup of butter, two-thirds of a cup of cold water, one egg, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in layers and fill with jelly. Jelly.—The grated rind and juice of one lemon; add one cup of sugar and one egg; beat thoroughly and boil in double boiler till cooked. Spread when cold and frost with powdered sugar,194 the physical culture cook book. 21. Jelly Cake.—Make a cake as above, and spread the layers with fruit jelly. Cover with an icing. 22. Minnehaha Cake.—One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, whites of six or the whole of three eggs, one cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in three layers. Filling. —One cup sugar, four tablespoonfuls water boiled till clear. Stir it into the beaten white of one egg, quickly, and add one-half cup raisins, seeded and chopped fine, and one-half cup chopped hickory-nut meats. 23. Lemon Custard Jelly Cake.—Make a dough as for gold cake, bake in shallow tins and fill with the following: Yolks of three eggs, one-fourth pound of butter, one-half pound of pulverized sugar. Beat all together till light. The rind and juice of one lemon. Put on to boil in a small vessel, and stir till it boils. Boil ten minutes. Stir in the beaten whites of three eggs and boil two minutes longer, stirring all the time. 24. Chocolate Cake.—Make layers of ‘‘Plain Cake” and fill with the following: Five table- spoonfuls of Baker’s Chocolate grated fine, enough cream or milk to wet it, one cup ofTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 195 sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful vanilla flavor- ing; stir the ingredients over the fire until thoroughly mixed, having beaten the egg well before adding it; then add the flavoring after taking from the fire. 25. Chocolate Cake.—One-half cup (scant) butter, creamed, one cup sugar, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoon- fuls baking powder. Boil together not quite one-quarter cake chocolate grated, one-half cup milk, one cup sugar and one teaspoonful vanilla. When cool add to the above mixture. Bake in jelly tins and put boiled icing between the layers. 26. Cocoanut Cake.—Three-quarters cup butter, two cups sugar, yolks of four eggs and whites of two, one cup sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in jelly tins. Grate one fresh cocoanut, or use desiccated cocoanut soaked in milk and drained. Cover the layers with boiled icing, and sprinkle thickly with cocoanut. 27. Cream Cake.—Beat three eggs sep- arately to a stiff froth; add one cup sugar, one- half cup flour, one t'easpoonful baking powder ^nd beat all together. Bake in two tins. Fill-196 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. ing: One pint milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls cornstarck, a little vanilla. 28. Orange Cake.—Make a dough as for plain cake, bake in shallow tins and fill with the following: Grate thin yellow part of the skin of two oranges into one cupful of water, and boil until reduced one-half; strain, add one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, and boil with- out stirring until it will spin a thread. Now pour slowly in a tiny stream on the beaten yolks of three eggs, beating all the time, and keep on beating until the mixture stififens. Add the juice of one orange and the juice of half a lemon. Or 29. Orange Custard Filling.—Grate the thin yellow rind of an orange into one pint' of milk; heat in a double boiler, adding one table- spoonful of butter; when hot add the beaten yolks of four eggs and two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet in a little milk. Cook until thick and all raw taste from the starch is gone. Stir all the time. When cold put between cake-layers. 30. Pineapple Cake.—Make a layer cake and fill with a boiled icing sprinkled with grated pineapple,THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 197 31. Ice Cream Cake.—One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup water, whites of five eggs, two level teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half spoonful vanilla. Beat butter to cream, add sugar and then vanilla; now add milk, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, finally flour and baking powder. Stir well, bake in shallow pans, well buttered. Bake twenty minutes. Filling.—Put two cups granulated sugar in a stew pan with one-half cup boiling water. Boil gently ten minutes without stirring. Beat whites of two eggs stiff, and pour syrup in, in a slow stream, beating with a Dover beater all the time. Continue two minutes after it is all in. Two persons can do this best. 32. Nut Layer Cake.—One cup sugar, one cup milk, two cups flour, two even teaspoon- fuls baking powder, butter the size of an egg, two eggs, setting the white of one aside for frosting. Mix well. Take out one-third, with which grate enough chocolate to make it dark; flavor with vanilla. Bake in three tins, one of dark dough, two of white. Filling.—Whip one-half pint cream, add one cup powdered sugar and one cup walnuts chopped fine. Figs or dates are nice with the cream instead of nuts.198 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 33. Cookies.—Two cups sugar, one cup but- ter, three-fourths cup sweet milk, two eggs, five cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking pow- der. Roll thin and bake quickly. 34. Soft Cookies.—One heaping cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, three tablespoon- fuls sour milk, one small teaspoonful soda (dissolved) and as little flour as will make them stiflf enough to roll. Sprinkle with sugar and grated nutmeg before cutting, pass over roller, cut and bake a light brown. 35. Fruit Cookies.—Two cupfuls of sugar and one cupful of butter creamed; add yolks of two eggs, and beat hard for five minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one table- spoonful of cinnamon, one level teaspoonful of cloves, one half teaspoonful of nutmeg and one teaspoonful of soda. When mixed put in two cupfuls of chopped raisins rolled in flour, the beaten whites of the eggs, and enough flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll. The rule for flour in all cookies is as much, or rather as little, as will make a dough that can be rolled out and handled. 36. Grandmother’s Ginger Snaps (No. i)199 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. (Good).—One cup broWn sugar, one cup mo- lasses, three-quarters cup butter and lard (or cottolene) mixed, one teaspoonful soda dis- solved in one-half cupful hot water, one table- spoonful ginger, one teaspoonful baking powder, flour to make a stiff dough. Roll not too thin, cut in rounds, and bake quickly. 37. Ginger Snaps (No. 2).—One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one tablespoonful ginger, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and flour enough to make stiff to roll. 38. Ginger Snaps (No. 3).—One cup of mo- lasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful gin- ger, one teaspoonful of soda. Boil this to- gether from five to eight minutes; let it cool; then mix with flour and roll very thin. Cut into strips one inch wide, and four or more inches long. Bake on floured tins in a quick oven. 39. Drop Cake.—One and one-half cups su- gar, three-quarters cup butter, one-half cup milk, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. Mix and bake in little round tins for twenty minutes. Ice with boiled icing No. i or chocolate icing.ioo THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 40. Spice Drop Cakes.—Yolks of three eggs, one-half cup shortening, one cup molasses, one-half cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Spice with nut- meg, cinnamon, cloves, and flavor with lemon. Drop on buttered paper on tins, and bake very quickly. 41. Jumbles.—Half cup butter, three-quar- ters of a cup of sugar, one heaping cup flour, two eggs (the yolks only), extract of rose to taste. Beat the egg yolks, cream the butter and sugar; mix these, and add the flour and the flavoring. Make into round balls with the fingers, and place them on a well-buttered tin so far apart that when they flatten they may not run into each other. Stick a raisin, a slip of citron, or a blanched almond on top of each. Bake in a steady oven to a pale yellow. Do not hroivn. While stil warm, loosen them from the pan with a sharp knife, as they be- come very brittle when cold. 42. Macaroons.—One and a half cups pow- dered sugar, whites of two eggs, six ounces al- mond paste. Beat the whites very stiflf; add the sugar and the almond paste, the latter chopped fine. Make into balls with the fingers and bake in very well greased pans in a mod- erate oven. Take out when they are a deli-201 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. cate brown, but do not remove them from the pans until they are perfectly cold. 43. Nut Wafers.—Beat together until very light two eggs and one cupful of well-flavored brown sugar; add three tablespoonfuls of flour and one cupful of nuts finely chopped. Drop on buttered tins, and bake. 44. Pfeffernuesse (Good, but’ rich).—One pound sugar, one pound butter, two pounds flour, one-quarter pound almonds, one-quarter ounce ammonia, four eggs. Beat eggs and add ammonia. Blanch and chop almonds, mix all together, let stand one-half hour, roll out and cut in inch squares. Bake quickly. ICINGS. I. Fondant.—A cup of sugar mixed with a quarter of a teaspoonful of cream of tartar for twelve minutes in half a cup of water. At the end of this time this syrup should be in such a condition that a drop rubbed between the finger and thumb will quickly form into a ball. At this stage pour the fondant on to a greased platter, and when it is cool enough to handle knead it with the hand until it is a smooth, creamy mass. When ready to use it put the fondant in a saucepan and set the saucepan in202 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. another containing boiling water. When the fondant melt's stir in half a cup of walnuts, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and when the icing is a little cooled pour it over the cake. 2. Boiled Icing (No. i).—One cup granula- ted sugar, one-half cup water, one-quarter tea- spoonful cream of tartar. Set on the back of the stove and stir occasionally until dissolved. Then boil until it will harden when dropped into cold water (or about eight minutes). Let cool a little and beat until stiff enough to spread on the cake. 3. Boiled Icing (No. 2).—Boil one teacupful of granulated sugar with four teaspoonfuls of water until it drops from the spoon in threads. Have ready the beaten white of one egg, and pour the syrup slowly into it, stirring all the time. Flavor, and spread on the cake while warm. 4. Chooolate Icing.—One cup sugar, one- quarter cup chocolate, one-half cup milk, yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful vanilla. . 5. Boil together all the ingredients, until the chocolate and sugar are dissolved. When cool, spread the icing between the layers and on top of the cake.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 203 6. Frosting.—To the white of one egg allow five tablespoonfuls of sugar and the juice of half a lemon. Beat the egg stiflF, or until it will not fall from an inverted spoon, and stir in the sugar, little at a time; when all in, add the lemon juice; spread while the cake is still warm, using a broad knife dipped occasionally into cold water.CHAPTER XVII. CANNING AND PRESERVING. Use only porcelain or good granite ironware to cook the fruit in. Weigh ingredients care- fully, and clean jars well with boiling water before using. Be careful that the covers are in tight, and use neiv rubbers, as old ones are unreliable. Cover jellies and jams with a thin layer of paraffine, melted and poured on hot. This is much better and easier than pasting paper over. Canned Fruit.—Canned fruit is often pre- ferred nowadays to preserved, as it is cheaper, more wholesome and easier to do up. Wash and pick over carefully all berries, cherries, etc. Peel and cut in half peaches and remove about half the pits. Peel and cut up quinces. Wash pie plant and cut into inch pieces. Peel and cut up pineapple. Then putTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 205 into the kettle with sugar in the following pro- portions, and boil accordingly. Canned Peaches.—Pare, cut in half and re- move the stones from all but a few. Put in kettle with sugar, allowing one-quarter pound sugar to one pound fruit. Cook only until just tender, and can. Canned Pears.—Make a syrup, allowing one pint water and one-quarter pound sugar to one quart fruit. Peel pears. When syrup has come to a boil drop in pears carefully and boil until they are clear and can be pierced with a fork. Put into jars, fill with scalding hot' syrup, and seal. Canned Apples.—Same as pears. Canned Berries.—Wash, pick over and heat slowly to boiling. Add one tablespoonful su- gar for each quart fruit. Boil fifteen minutes and can. Very nice for the filling of pies. Canned Plums.—Wash and pick plums. Make syrup of one gill water and one-quarter pound sugar to every two quart's fruit. Boil five minutes, not too fast; fill jars with the plums, add th^ scalding juice and seal,2o6 the physical CULTURE COOK BOOK. Canned Tomatoes.—Peel tomatoes (easiest done by pouring boiling water on them and skinning) and cut up. Put into kettle and boil one-half hour. Put into cans and seal. Keep in a cool, dark place. Take care to have the cans well sterilized and rubbers new, and the tomatoes will keep well. Preserves are made the same as canned fruit in the main, allowing more sugar to the pound. Either one-half pound sugar to a pound of fruit, or pound for pound. The latter, however, makes exceedingly rich preserves, or marmalade, and these should be used sparing- ly, as the excess of sugar in them is apt to upset the stomach and liver. Canned Strawberries.—Take one pound of picked, washed strawberries (dark ones are best), put six tablespoonfuls of water in a saucepan; when it boils put the berries in and immediately put one-quarter pound of pure granulated sugar on the top of the berries. Let them boil eight minutes, put them in a pint jar, close well, and be sure to turn or to invert the jar every two minutes until the berries do not rise to the top of the jar. This changes the po- sition of the berries and allows them to absorb the liquid, which perserves th^ir taste, size and color,207 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. Preserved Strawberries.—As canned, allow- ing one-half pound sugar to one pound fruit. Yellow Tomato Preserves.—Seven pounds round yellow tomatoes peeled, seven pounds sugar, juice three lemons; let stand together over night. Drain off syrup and boil it, skim well, then put in the tomatoes and boil gently twenty minutes. Take out fruit with skim- mer, spread on dishes. Boil syrup down till it thickens, adding, just before you take it off fire, juice of the lemons. Put fruit into jars and fill up with hot syrup. When cold, seal up. Preserved Cherries.—Clean and put into kettle with sugar, allowing one pound sugar to one pound cherries. Boil until syrup begins to thicken, and can. Preserved Peaches (No. i) (Good).—Pare, cut in half and remove most of the stones. Put on the fire, allowing one-half pound sugar to one pound peaches, and let heat slowly, stir- ring occasionally. Let boil about eight to twelve minutes, or until the fruit is clear. Re- move peaches, put into scalded jars, pour syrup over and seal. Preserved Peaches (2).—Allow half a pouncj of sugar to one pound of peaches, Put the su*2o8 the physical culture cook book. gar on the fire with a little water ; let it boil until the syrup is clear; then put in the peaches, and let them boil until heated through. Take the peaches out, and can. Preserved Quinces.—Pare and core the quinces, and cut into halves or quarters, as suits the size of your jars. Let them stand over night in enough cold water to cover them. In the morning put them in the kettle with the same water, and let them cook gently till you can just stick a fork in them. Take the fruit out with a skimmer, weigh it, and to each pound of fruit allow one-half pound of sugar. Put the fruit and sugar into the kettle, with enough of the water to make a good syrup, and let them boil gently until they are clear. Take out carefully with the skimmer and put in the jars; fill the jars to the top with the syrup. If there is a large quantity of fruit, and the kettle is not large, it is best to put the fruit in the syrup a little at a time. Pineapple Preserve.—Pare, core, cut up into shreds. Allow one-half pound sugar to one pound fruit. Put into kettle and pour in a little water, allowing one cup water to one pound sugar. Boil fifteen minutes, and can. Preserved Citron,—To make four quart jarsTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 209 full of preserved citron, take ten pounds citron, weighed after it has been peeled and cut into slices, place the citron with two quarts boiling water and half pint lemon juice, over the fire, boil ten minutes, remove and drain on a sieve, then place a preserving kettle with five pounds sugar and one pint water over the fire, stir until the sugar is dissolved, boil five minutes, add the citron and four ounces green ginger, freed from the brown skin and cut into slices, l)oil forty-five minutes, then fill the citron into jars, continue to boil the syrup without a cover until it coats the spoon; or put a drop on pa- per; if it does not spread it has boiled enough; pour the hot syrup over the citron in the jars to overflowing, close tightly and set in a dry place, free from dampness. Quince Marmalade.—Such quinces as are too knotty or defective to make good preserves may be pared and cored, cut into small pieces and put in the kettle with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; put a small cup of cold water in first to prevent burning. When the quince begins t'o soften take a potato-masher and mash it to a pulp without taking it from the fire. Let it boil gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, not longer than twenty; take from the fire and put in jars.210 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. Peach Marmalade.—Peel and cut up. Allow three-quarters pound sugar to one pound fruit. Boil three-quarters hour, stirring occa- sionally, and put in jars. If desired, crack a few pits and put the kernels in with the fruit. Pineapple Marmalade.—Cut up, cover with water and boil until tender. Press through coarse sieve and add one pound sugar to every pint of pulp. Boil two hours, stirring often. Orange Marmalade.—Peel and cut in halves oranges and pick out pulp, free it of seeds, drain as much juice as possible, and put in kettle with sugar, allowing one pound sugar to one pound orange. Let boil fifteen minutes, put in pulp and boil fifteen minutes longer. Put into jelly jars and cover with paraffine. Raspberry or Strawberry Jam. — Allow three-quarters pound sugar to one pound fruit. Wash fruit in the kettle, boil hard fif- teen minutes, add sugar and boil fifteen min- utes longer. Put into jelly glasses and cover with paraffine. Currant Jelly.—Wash the currants and add a few raspberries, about one-tenth as many as the currants. Put into kettle and boil twenty minutes, or until thoroughl}^ cooked. SqueezeTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 211 through a yard square of cheesecloth and measure juice. Allow one pound sugar to one pint juice Put the juice into kettle and boil twenty minutes. While the juice is boil- ing set the sugar in a cool oven to dry, about ten minutes. Put sugar into juice; let come to a boil, and out into glasses. Grape Jelly.—Wash grapes in a kettle and cook until done. Strain through a sieve, but do not press through. Boil juice five minutes. Add sugar, allowing pint for pound, and boil three minutes more. Put into glasses. Quince Jelly.—Take the cores and parings of the quinces, put them in enough cold water to cover them, and boil them until they are soft. Squeeze them, and add the juice to the water, and any syrup which may be left from the quince preserve and strain it. To each pint of juice allow a pound of sugar. Spread the sugar in pans, and put it in the oven to heat; it must be watched and stirred to pre- vent burning. Let the juice boil for five min- utes, then pour in the hot sugar, stirring until it is entirely dissolved, and skimming any scum that may rise; there will be very little. Let it come to a boil, then take from the fire and put in jars or glasses. The jelly will be clear, of a good color, and keep well. All212 the physical culture cook book. kinds of jellies can be made in this way, and it saves much labor in the time of boiling the juice and the trouble of skimming. Crab Apple Jelly.—Wash fruit, put into ket- tle, cover with water and boil until thoroughly cooked. Drain through a sieve. Allow one pound sugar to each pint juice, and cook twen- ty to thirty minutes longer. Pickled Peaches.—Ten pounds of fruit, five and a half pounds sugar, one quart of vinegar; mace, cinnamon, cloves to taste. Prick each peach with a fork, heat in water enough t'o cover. Take them all out; add to the water sugar, vinegar and spices in a bag. Boil until scum ceases to rise, then return fruit to syrup, and can when tender. Pickled Quinces.—Pare and quarter; to ev- ery ten pounds add three pounds brown sugar, one pint vinegar, one ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon; boil till tender.CHAPTER XVIII. BEVERAGES. 1. Lemonade.—Squeeze six lemons, grate the juice of one, add juice of two oranges, twelve cups water, sugar to taste. If desired, add a few strawberries. 2. Lemon Syrup.—Grate the rind of six large fresh lemons, and mix with a pound of fine loaf sugar broken into small pieces; moisten this with as much water as will be absorbed; place in a preserving pan and boil to a clear syrup. Add the strained juice of twelve fresh lemons, stir well, pour into small dry bottles, cork, and seal. This syrup put into filtered water makes a delicious lemonade. Orange syrup is prepared exactly in the same way, only substitute oranges for lemons, and use a smaller proportion of sugar. 3. Grape Juice.—Wash and pick over the fruit and put it into a kettle with not quite enough water to cover it. Stew until the pulp214 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. is well broken, and no longer. Strain through a cheese-cloth sack, and let drip over night into a porcelain kettle; add a teaspoonful of sugar to every quart' of juice, bring to a scald, and bottle; or cool and use. 4. Raspberry Shrub.—Four quarts of red raspberries to one quart of vinegar; let stand four days, then strain. To each pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil twenty minutes. Bottle, and keep in a dry cool place. 5. Berry Syrups.—Make a syrup by boiling berries, currants, etc., as for canning. Add water to taste. 6. Apple Punch.—Quarter and core twelve tart apples. Do not pare; cover with one gal- lon of water, bring to boiling point’, and cook without stirring for twenty minutes; add one tumbler of quince jelly; strain through cheese cloth; add one pound of white grapes, cut into halves. Serve in punch glasses.CHAPTER XIX. DISHES FOR CONVALESCENTS. In preparing food for convalescent’s, it should be borne in mind that they cannot, by reason of their forced inactivity and general weakness, digest as much, nor as hearty food as the well. Solicitous friends often make the mistake of trying to force the appetite of the recovers, in the hope that he may “gain flesh” by eating heartily. This is most wrong. A little food, well digested, will prove much more beneflcial, of course, than an overdose. Yet, on the other hand, things must be tastily cooked and daintily served in order that the delicate appetite may not revolt at the very sight of the food. Dififerent cases, of course, require diflferent treatment in regard to diet, but a few general rules may be followed. Do not give vege- tables and fruit at the same meal, since a deli-2I6 the physical culture cook book. cate stomach cannot always digest them. Boiled rice, cornmeal gruel, a baked potato can usually be given with good results. The juice of an orange, a baked apple, etc., if taken alone, are useful. Beef tea, and other meat broths and strained soups, are not foods, but' stimulants and tonics. They have their mer- its, however, as they can often be retained by the stomach, when the solid substance of the meat would be rejected; and they are good in cases of temporary exhaustion, etc. Barley, rice or sage may be added to advantage if the patient' can digest them. Raw custards, etc., are often beneficial. If pure sweet cream and milk disagree with the patient, a tablespoonful of lime water may be added to each glassful. For cases of wasting disease, a simple mayon- naise is good. No fat is more digestible than a pure vegetable oil, and if the best olive oil be used and the stomach is not too exceedingly weak, mayonnaise will be found very nutri- tious. Select the freshest food, cook it simply, not combining several articles in one dish, and serve—let me add again—on the daintiestTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 217 china and whitest, finest linen available. Some- times special needs of the body show them- selves in desires and cravings for certain foods, and, when possible, should be gratified. 1. Rice Water.—Simmer two tablespoonfuls rice in one quart boiling water for two hours. Strain, add a pinch of salt, and use either hot or cold. 2. Boiled Rice for Weak Digestions.—Put one-half cup of rice in two cups of boiling water and boil twenty minutes. Then put in a double boiler; keep the water in the under vessel for four or five hours. If the rice dries add either milk or water. 3. Toast Water.—Cover well toasted bread, whole wheat or Graham preferred, with boil- ing water. When cold, strain and sweeten the v/ater slightly if desired. 4. Barley Water.—Pour one pint boiling water on two tablespoonfuls of fresh pearl barley and boil five minutes; then throw off. Pour on the barley two quarts of boiling water and let boil until reduced one-half. Strain and serve plain, or add milk or flavor with a little jelly or lemon. 5. Bran Tea (Very nutritious).—Add one2i8 the physical culture cook book. pint of boiling water to one-half pint of wheat bran. Let stand on the back of the stove for an hour, but do not boil. Strain and serve with sugar and cream instead of coffee or tea. 6. Egg Water.—Stir the whites of two eggs in a half glass of ice water. Add salt or sugar to taste. 7. Apple Water.—Slice six sour, juicy ap- ples, add one tablespoonful of sugar and pour over them one quart boiling water. Cover closely. When cold strain. 8. Flaxseed Tea.—Boil one cup flaxseed in one quart boiling water thirty minutes and let stand a while. Add lemon and sugar and serve. 9. Currant Juice.—Strip one quart currants from the stems and put in porcelain kettle with one quart water and heat slowly to a boil. Skim and boil five minutes; strain and cool. Add water if necessary and sweeten to taste. 10. Cornmeal Gruel.—Sprinkle slowly one tablespoonful cornmeal into one quart boiling water, and let it cook in a double boiler three hours, stirring occasionally. Then add a little rich milk and salt to taste. If cooked in this way it will be found very digestible.THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 219 11. Oatmeal Gruel.—Into one quart boiling water stir one tablespoonful oatmeal, and cook slowly one hour. Strain and season. Add milk if desired. 12. Oatmeal and Broth.—^Boil the oatmeal in beef broth if desired. 13. Milk Soup.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over three tablespoonfuls of fine cracker or bread crumbs. Salt to taste. 14. Milk and Albumen.—A pint of new milk, unbeaten whites of two eggs,, a small pinch of salt. Put in a clean quart bottle, cork and shake hard for five minutes. 15. Potato Soup.—One generous tablespoon- ful of mashed potato. Add gradually a pint of new milk. Place on the stove and when hot stir in a heaping teaspoonful of cornstarch dissolved in cold milk. Let boil up several times. Season with salt and celery salt, or a sprig of parsley. 16. Uncooked Beef Tea.—Only a little of this should be made at a time, as it sours quickly. Take one ounce of beef at a time, and as soon as one cupful is given prepare the next. The beef should be from the top part of the round;220 THE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. this must be cut across the grain, and shred down with a knife. For each ounce allow two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Let' the meat soak fifteen minutes, and then the water will be colored with the juice. Use no salt. 17. Beef Tea.—To every pound of beef, cut fine (not chopped), add one pint cold water, and let stand two hours; then place over a slow fire, or place on the extreme back part of a range, where it may heat through very grad- ually; then pull forward where if may come quickly to a simmer, or just below the boiling point. Stir thoroughly at intervals of about ten minutes. In two hours from time it is placed over the fire it ma}'- be considered done, although no harm will be done if it remain one-half hour longer, provided it does not boil. Strain through a colander into an earthen bowl. Strain the second time through a fine tin strainer. If it has been properly cooked and not allowed to boil or get hot too quickly, there will remain but little sediment from the last straining. If, on the other hand, these rules have not been observed, the body and substance of the meat will remain in the strainer, leaving a thin watery mixture of little value. Practice and watchful care only will enable the cook to bring the beef tea up fo theTHE PHYSICAL CULTURE COOK BOOK. 22 1 boiling point without letting it boil. This is the test of the article. Do not salt while cook- ing, as that causes it to separate. 18. Broth and Egg.—Make a good broth and pour over a well-beaten egg. Season with salt and serve with a slice of delicately browned toast. 19. Mutton Broth.—Put about four pounds of mutton {not lamb), neck piece preferred, in cold water enough to cover. Simmer—not boil—nearly all day, or until the meat is in shreds. Strain through a colander; place liquor in ice box over night. Next morning remove the grease which has risen, being care- ful not to let any particles remain on the jelly. Keep jelly on ice, and when required for use, take one tablespoonful to one-half cup of boil- ing water. Salt to taste, before serving. This is excellent for those suffering from dysenteric troubles. 20. Chicken Tea.—Cut in small pieces a chicken from which the skin and fat have been removed. Boil the pieces in one quart of water, with a little salt’ for twenty minutes. The tea should be poured from the chicken before the meat is quite cold.2 22 the physical CULTURE COOK BOOK. 21. Stewed Prunes.—Buy box prunes, as they are of better quality than the open sort. Soak for an hour in cold water, put in a porce- lain-lined saucepan and add a little sugar. Let them stew an hour or more slowly, or until they are soft. These are very good in small- pox, measles, scarlet fever, and the like, not only as food, but as medicine also. 22. Graham Bread for Invalids.—One pint Graham flour, one pint flour, one teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, two of baking powder. Sift all well together, rejecting coarse bran left in sieve. Add one and one-half pints milk. Mix quickly into smooth, soft dough. Bake in two small greased tins twenty-five minutes. Pro- tect with paper ten minutes. 23. Junket.—Sweeten to taste one quart fresh milk, stir in one tablespoonful liquid ren- net, and pour into glass dish. Set near the stove where it will get warm, and as soon as it begins to thicken, set on ice. Serve with pre- serves and cream.TABLE OF CONTENTS AND INDEXTABLE OF CONTENTS. Page. Preface 3 CHAPTER I. Bills of Fare 7 CHAPTER II. Preparation of Whole Wheat 12 CHAPTER HI. Special Instructions ig CHAPTER IV. A Word on Cooking 22 CHAPTER V. Bread. Rolls, Biscuit, etc 27 CHAPTER VI. Vegetables 46 CHAPTER VII. Soups 70TABLE OF CONTENTS. 226 CHAPTER VIII. Page. Fish and Shell Fish So CHAPTER IX. Meat 88 CHAPTER X. Poultry and Game loi CHAPTER XL Meat and Fish Sauces io8 CHAPTER XII. Cheese, Eggs and Breakfast Dishes 114 CHAPTER XIII. Salads and Sandwiches 127 CHAPTER XIV. Fruits and Nuts 139 CHAPTER XV, Desserts 149 CHAPTER XVI. Cakes 187 CHAPTER XVII. Canning and Preserving 204 CHAPTER XVIII. Beverages 213 CHAPTER XIX. Dishes for Convalescents 215GENERAL INDEX, ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED. Beverages. Page, Apple Punch 214 Berry Syrups 214 Grape Juice 213 Lemonade 213 Lemon Syrup 213 Raspberry Shrub 214 Bread, Rolls and Biscuit. Aerated or Peptic Bread 31 Barley Meal Scones 43 Barley Muffins 38 Breakfast Muffins 37 Breakfast Rolls 34 Brown Bread 33 Boston Brown Bread 32 Corn Muffins, No. i 39 Corn Mwffins, No, 2 39INDEX. 228 Page. Corn Pone 40 Cream Toast ^5 Crumpets 41 English Muffins 38 German Puffs, No. i 40 German Puffs, No. 2 40 Gluten Bread 33 Graham Bread, No. i 20 Graham Bread, No. 2 30 Graham Bread. Peptic 32 Graham Gems, No. i 34 Graham Gems, No. 2 35 Graham Muffins 37 Graham Puffs 40 Graham Wafers 44 Graham Wheatlets ■ 44 Grandma’s Johnny-Cake 39 Hot Cross Buns 45 Maryland or Beaten Biscuit 42 Muffins 36 Oatmeal Wafers 44 Pop-Overs 41 Rice Griddle Cakes 44 Rice Muffins, No. i 38 Rice Muffins, No. 2 38 Rye Bread 31 Rye Gems 35 Rye Muffins. No. i 37 Rye Muffins, No, 2. 37INDEX. 329 Page. Sally Lunn 35 Tea Rolls 33 Waffles, No. 42 Waffles, No. 2 42 Whole-Wheat Bread, No. i 29 Whole-Wheat Bread, No. 2 30 Whole-Wheat Gems 34 Whole-Wheat Griddle Cakes 43 Whole-Wheat Muffins, No. i 35 Whole-Wheat Muffins, No. 2 36 Whole-Wheat Muffins, No. 3 36 Whole-Wheat Pop-Overs 41 Breakfast Dishes. Bacon and Eg-qs 123 Creamed Dried Beef 122 Creamed Codfish 121 Creamed Fish 121 Fish Cakes, No. i 121 Fish Cakes, No. 2 121 Ham and Eggs 123 Ham Patties 122 Hash 122 Cakes. Angel Cake 189 Chocolate Cake 194 Chocolate Cake 195INDEX. 230 Page. Centennial Cake 192 Cocoanut Cake 195 Cookies 198 Cookies, Soft 198 Cookies, Fruit 198 Cream Cake 195 Delicate Cake 188 Drop Cake 199 Farmer’s Fruit Cake 192 Gingerbread 193 Gingersnaps, Grandmother’s, No. i 198 Gingersnaps, No. 2 199 Gingersnaps, No. 3 199 Gold Cake 189 Hickory Nut Cake 188 Huckleberry Cake 190 Ice Cream Cake 197 Jelly Cake IQ4 Jumbles 200 Layer Cake IQ3 Lemon Jelly Cake I93 Lemon Custard Jelly Cake 194 Macaroons 200 Marble Cake 190 Minnehaha Cake I94 Molasses Cake 192 Molasses Cake, Aunt Rachel’s 193 Nut Layer Cake I97 Nut Wafers 201231 INDEX. Page. Orange Cake 196 Orange Custard Filling 196 Pfeffernuesse 201 Pineapple Cake 196 Plain Cake 188 Pound Cake 190 Raisin Cake 188 Spice Drop Cakes 200 Sponge Cake 190 Sponge Cake, Boiled 191 White Cake 188 White Cake 191 Canning and Preserving. Apples, Canned 205 Berries, Canned 205 Cherries, Preserved 207 Citron, Preserved 208 Crab Apple Jelly 212 Currant Jelly 210 Fruit, Canned 204 Grape Jelly 211 Orange Marmalade 210 Pears, Canned 205 Peaches, Canned 205 Peach Marmalade 210 Peaches, Preserved, No. i 207 Peaches, Preserved, No. 2 207INDEX. 232 Page. Peaches, Pickled 212 Pineapple Marmalade 210 Pineapple Preserve 208 Plums, Canned 205 Quinces, Preserved 208 Quinces, Pickled 212 Quince Marmalade 209 Quince Jelly 211 Raspberry Jam 210 Strawberries, Canned 206 Strawberry Jam 210 Strawberries, Preserved 207 Tomatoes, Canned 206 Tomatoes, Yellow, Preserved 207 Cereals. Figs and Hominy 125 Hominy 125 Indian Meal Mush 124 Rolled Oats 125 Rolled Oats, Baked 125 Steamed Apples with Oatmeal 126 Whole Wheat, How to Prepare 17 Cheese. Baked Cheese Omelet IIQ Cheese Omelet 118 Cheese Muff 120INDEX. -1 233 Page. Gieese Ramekin 120 Welsh Rarebit 120 Convalescents, Dishes for. Apple Water 218 Barley Water 217 Beef Tea 220 Beef Tea, uncooked 219 Bran Tea 217 Broth and Egg 221 Chicken Tea 221 Cornmeal Gruel 218 Currant Juice 218 Egg Water 218 Flaxseed Tea 218 Graham Bread for Invalids 222 Junket 222 Milk and Albumin 219 Milk Soup 219 Mutton Broth 221 Oatmeal Broth 219 Oatmeal Gruel 219 Potato Soup 219 Prunes, Stewed 22c Rice Water 217 Rice, Boiled, for Weak Digestions 217 Toast and Water 217INDEX. 234 Eggs. Page. Baked Eggs ii8 Boiled Eggs 115 Egg Timbales 119 Egg Timbales, with Cheese 119 Eggs, with Bread Sauce 119 Deviled Eggs 118 Moulded Eggs 116 Omelet, No. i 116 Omelet, No. 2 117 Omelet, Apple 118 Omelet, Ham ii7 Poached Eggs 116 Scrambled Eggs 116 Fish and Shell Fish. Baked Fish 82 Boiled Fish 80 Broiled Fish 81 Clam Chowder, No. i 85 Clam Chowder, No. 2 86 Clams, Deviled 87 Eels, Stewed 80 Fish a la Creme 82 Fried Fish 81 Oysters a la Providence 84 Oysters, Broiled 83 Oysters, Broiled 83INDEX. Oyster Omelet 84 Oysters, Creamed 85 Oysters, Panned 83 Oysters, Scalloped 83 Oysters, Stewed 83 Page. Oysters, Fricasseed 84 Oysters on Crackers 85 Oysters, Philadelphia 82 Oysters, Roasted in Shell 83 Fruit. Apples 140 Apples, Baked 140 Apples, Dried 141 Apple Sauce 140 Bananas, Baked, No. i 143 Bananas, Baked, No. 2 143 Berries 142 Cherry Salad 144 Crab Apples, Stewed 141 Dates, Stuffed 144 Dates, with Cream 144 Dried Peaches or Apricots, Stewed 142 Figs and Rhubarb 145 Fruit Salad 144 Oranges 142 Pears, Baked 141 Pears, Steamed 141 Ol236 INDEX. Page. Pears, Stewed 141 Pineapple 142 Prunes, Stewed 222 Prunes, Stuffed 144 Quinces, Stuffed 141 Rhubarb, Stewed 143 Ices, Ice Creams and Frozen Puddings. Chocolate Ice Cream 177 Frozen Custard 178 Frozen Peaches 178 Fruit Ice Cream 177 Grape Sherbet I75 Lemon Ice i75 Orange Ice I75 Pineapple Ice i75 Pineapple Ice Cream I77 Pineapple Sherbet 176 Sherbet Tutti-Fruitti Pudding 178 Vanilla Ice Cream, No. i 176 Vanilla Ice Cream, No. 2 176 Icings. Boiled Icing, i«o. 202 Boiled Icing, No. 2 202 Chocolate Icing 202 Fondant Frosting237 INDEX. Meats.- Page. Beef, Bewitched 91 Beef, Corned 91 Beef, Pot Roast of 89 Beef, Roast 89 Beef, Stew 91 Beef Stew 98 Beef Tongue 92 Beefsteak 90 Ham, Boiled 97 Delmonico Steak 90 Hamburg Steak 91 Lamb and Macaroni 98 Lamb, Blanquette of 93 Lamb Chops 92 Lamb Croquettes 99 Lamb, Roast 92 Lamb, a la Jardiniere, Stewed 92 Meat Balls 98 Mutton, Boiled 92 Mutton Cutlets 93 Mutton Stew 93 Pork, Baked Tenderloin of 97 Pork, Roast 97 Sweetbreads, Broiled 96 Sweetbreads, Creamed 96 Veal, Blanquette of 94 Veal, Cheese 96238 INDEX. Page. Veal Croquettes 99 Veal Cutlets, No. i 94 Veal Cutlets, No. 2 94 Veal Loaf 96 Veal, Minced 99 Veal, Potpie 95 Veal, Rechauffee 99 Veal, Roast 94 Nuts. Boiled Chestnuts 146 Creamed Walnuts 146 Lyonnaise Chestnuts 146 Nut Loaf 145 Nuttose Timbales 147 Roasted Almonds 147 Vegetable Turkey 146 Pies. Apple Pie, No. i 182 Apple Pie, No. 2 182 Apple Tart 182 Berry Pie 184 Blackberry Pie 184 Cherry Pie, No. i 184 Cherry Pie, No. 2 184 Cocoanut Pie 185 Custard Pie 185INDEX. 239 Page. Lemon Pie 183 Mince Meat 186 Mince Pie 186 Peach Meringue 183 Peach Pie 182 Pie Crust, Cream 180 Pie Crust No. 2 181 Pie Crust, Cream and Potato 181 Pie Crust, De Holbrook’s 181 Pie Crust, No. 4 181 Pie Crust, No. 5 181 Pineapple Pie 183 Puff Paste 181 Pumpkin 185 Raspberry or Plum 184 Rhubarb Pie 183 Strawberry Meringue 184 Poultry and Game. Chicken, Baked, Omelet 105 Chicken, Blanquette of 105 Chicken, Broiled 104 Chicken, Fricaseed 103 Chicken, Pan Broiled 103 Chicken Pie 104 Chicken Potpie 103 Chicken, Roast 103 Chicken, Scalloped 105240 INDEX. Page. Chicken, Terrapin 105 Duck, Roast 106 Goose, Roast 106 Grouse au Cresson 106 Partridge, Roast 106 Pigeon, Roast 106 Quail, Broiled 106 Quail, Roast 106 Rabbit, Roast 107 Turkey, Boiled 102 Turkey, Oyster Stuffing 102 Turkey, Ragout of 102 Turkev Roast loi Turkey, Scallop 103 Venison, Roast 107 Puddings. Apple Pudding 150 Apple Pudding (Boiled) 152 Apple Pudding, Dutch 150 Apple Dumplings, No. i 152 Apple Dumplings, No. 2 152 Apple Snow i53 Apple, Snow I53 Apple Tapioca 151 Batter Pudding 156 Berry Puff Perry Pudding, SteamedINDEX. 241 Page. Blackberry Pudding 156 Bohemian Cream 169 Bread and Apple Pudding 151 Bread and Prune Pudding 163 Bread Pudding 162 Brown Betty 151 Brown Betty, Peach 153 Cherry Dumplings 157 Cherry Pudding, Baked 156 Cherry Pudding, Boiled 157 Children’s Pudding 153 Chocolate Pudding 164 Chocolate Pudding 168 Cornstarch Pudding 167 Cornstarch Pudding, Chocolate 168 Custard, Baked 165 Fig Pudding 164 Floating Island 165 Fruit Puff Pudding 155 Fruit Pudding 158 Fruit Pudding, Stewed 159 Fruit Pudding, Plain 159 Huckleberry Pudding 158 Indian Pudding, Delicate i6i Indian Pudding, Rich 161 Indian Pudding, Simple 161 Lemon Jelly 171 Orange Jelly 171INDEX. 242 Page. Orange Roly Poly 159 Orange Charlotte 170 Peach and Tapioca Pudding 153 Peach Cottage Pudding 155 Peach Pudding, Baked 154 Peach Pudding, Delicious 154 Poor Man’s Pudding 160 Plum Pudding, Graham 160 Plum Pudding, Grandma’s 160 Prune Dessert 164 Prune Pudding 163 Prune Puff 164 Raisin Puff 138 Raspberry Pudding 155 Rice Pudding 162 Rice Pudding, Steamed 162 Rice Pudding, with Raisins 162 Ratter Grutza 167 Snow Pudding 171 Spanish Cream 169 Strawberry Cream 170 Strawberry Short Cake 158 Strawberry or Raspberry Sponge 170 Tapioca Pudding, No. i 166 Tapioca Pudding. No. 2 166 Tapioca Pudding, No. 3 ... 166 Tapioca Raspberry Pudding 167 Tutti-Frutti Jelly 172243 INDEX. Pudding Sauces. Page. Creamy Sauce 172 Chocolate Sauce, No. i i74 Chocolate Sauce, No. 2 I74 Hard Sauce 172 Fruit Sauce I73 Lemon Sauce i73 Pudding Sauce 173 Substitute for Cream I73 Salads. Apple Salad 131 Asparagus Salad 130 Beet Salad 130 Cabbage Salad 129 Cauliflower Salad ...; 128 Chestnut Salad 132 Chicken Salad 132 French Fruit Salad 132 Lobster Salad 133 Nut and Orange Salad 132 Nut and Chicken Salad 132 Oyster Salad 133 Potato Salad, No. i 128 Potato Salad, No. 2 128 Tomato Salad, No. i 129 Tomato Salad, No. 2 130 Vegetable Salad 131244 INDEX. Page. Watercress 130 Winter Salad 130 Salad Dressings. Boiled Salad Dressing, No. i 134 Boiled Salad Dressing, No. 2 135 Dressing without Oil, No. i 134 Dressing without Oil, No. 2 134 French Dressing 133 Mayonnaise 133 Sandwiches. Baked Bean Sandwich 136 Brown Bread Sandwiches 136 Celery Sandwich I37 Cream Cheese Sandwiches I37 Egg Sandwiches I37 Jam Sandwiches 138 Lettuce Sandwich I35 Nut and Date Sandwiches 136 Nut Butter Sandwiches 136 Olive Sandwiches 136 Peanut Sandwiches 136 Rolled Fig Sandwiches I37 Roast Beef Sandwich I37 Salad Sandwich *35INDEX. 245 Sauces. Page. Apple Sauce m Bread Sauce no Caper Sauce 109 Cranberry Sauce in Cream Sauce, No. i 112 Cream Sauce, No. 2 112 Chestnut Sauce no Drain Butter, No. i 112 Drain Butter, No. 2 112 Egg Sauce 112 Hollandaise Sauce 113 Maitre a Hotel Sauce 113 Mushroom Sauce in Onion Sauce no Oyster Sauce no Sauce Bordelaise 109 Sauce Tartare 113 Sauce Soubice 109 Tomato Cream Sauce 108 Tomato Sauce 108 Soups. Asparagus Soup 73 Bean Soup 75 Bouillon 76 Cauliflower Soup 75 Celery Soup, No. i 74246 INDEX. Page. Celery Soup, No. 2 74 Chicken or Turkev Soup 77 Chicken Soup, German 77 Clam Soup 78 Lentil Soup 76 Milk-Soup, German 78 Mock Turtle Soup 77 Oxtail Soup 76 Oyster Soup 78 Pea Soup, Green 72 Pea Soup, Split 75 Potato Soup 72 Salsify Soup 73 Soup Maigre 72 Soup Stock, No. 1 71 Soup Stock, No. 2 71 Tomato Bisque 73 Tomato Soup 74 Veal Soup 77 Vegetable Stock 7t Vegetables. Artichokes 67 Asparagus 65 Beans, Baked 63 Beans, Fricasseed 63 Beans, Boston Baked 62 Beans, Lima 63INDEX. 247 Page. Beans, Mashed 63 Beans, String 64 Beets 56 Beets with Vinegar 56 Brussels Sprouts 58 Cabbage, Boiled 57 Cabbage, Creamed 57 Carrots and Peas 53 Carrots, Mashed 54 Carrots, Stewed 53 Cauliflower 57 Cauliflower au Gratin 58 Celery, Stewed 59 Cold Slaw 57 Corn, Baked 61 Corn, Boiled 61 Corn, Roast 62 Corn, Stewed 62 Cucumbers, Stewed 66 Egg Plant 66 Lentil Cutlets 64 Macaroni with Cheese 69 Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 69 Macaroni, a la Creme 69 Mushrooms, Stewed 67 Onions, Baked 5'5 Onions, Boiled 56 Onions, Fried 56INDEX. 248 Page. Parsnip Balls 55 Parsnips, Boiled 54 Parsnips, Buttered 55 Parsnips, Mashed 55 Parsnips, Scalloped 55 Peas, au Gratin 64 Peas, Canned 65 Peas, Green 64 Potatoes, Baked 5® Potatoes, Boiled 49 Potatoes, Creamed 50 Potato Croquettes 5i Potatoes, Delmonico 52 Potatoes, Hashed Browned 52 Potatoes, Mashed 50 Potatoes, Mother’s Milk 5® Potato Puff 52 Potatoes, Roasted with Beef 5i Potatoes, Sacked 5i Potatoes, Saratoga 52 Potatoes, Scalloped 5i Potatoes, Sweet, Boiled 53 Potatoes, Sweet, Browned 53 Ragout of Vegetables 67 Rice, Boiled, No. ^ Rice, Boiled, No. ^ Rice, Boiled, No. ^ Rice Croquettes ^ Salsify, Fried 59249 LnDEX. Page. Salsify, Stewed 58 Spinach 59 Squash, Baked 66 Squash, Summer 65 Squash, Winter 66 Succotash 62 Time for Cooking Vegetables 48 Tomatoes, Baked 60 Tomatoes, Broiled 60 Tomatoes, Panned 60 Tomatoes, Scalloped 61 Tomatoes, Stewed 61 Tomatoes, Stuffed 59 Turnips, Creamed 54 Turnips, Boiled 54 Turnips, Mashed 54 Vegetable Marrow 66How Health and Strength Are Gained THE THREE GREAT REMEDIES OF NATURE F acsting Hydropathy Fxercise BY BERNARR MACFADDEN and FELIX OSWALD, A.M., M.D. Every organism a self-regulating apparatus. Nature’s protests against health-destroying habits. Starve a man and you also starve his diseases. One or more meals daily. Brain work interferes with digestion. Curative influence of meager diet. Unnatural appetites no natural limit. Disease caused by eating in excess supply gastric juice. Protracted fasts. Instances of remarkable cures. No microbe has a chance against fasting method. Seven-day fasts of one of the authors. Its effect on mind and body. Cold, Nature’s specific for cure of germ disease. Agues yield to influence of cold air. Northern inhabitants stronger than Southern. Hydropathy a true remedy. The cold-water cure. Air baths. Pulmonary diseases unknown in extremely cold climates. Cold air remedies digestive disorders. Ventilation. The night-air delusion. The draft delusion. Confined air produces consumption. Gymnastics substituted for drugs. Outdoor exercise. Pedestrian ism. Indoor excercise. Gymnasiums. Gym- nastics. Mental culture and gymnastics. Quick benefits from movement cures. Bag punching, rowing machines, etc. Free movements of sanitarium exercises illustrated with seventeen full-page photographs. Detailed advice for treatment of various diseases. Physical Culture Publishing Company Townsend Bviildlntf 25th STREET AND BROADWAY NEW YORK CITY Prl ce, $1.00 post-paid BRIEF SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTSWKitely Grip MacKine STRENGTHENS THE WRISTS STRENGTHENS FINGERS C\ires Writers* CreLitips. Invotlvia-ble to Pi0Li\ists, Writers, and Boxers. It works smoothly and easily; does not catch in sliding up and down the guide bar. The double guide wire arrangement (patent applied for) prevents this. Price per Grips, 50 cervts Americ0Li\ Exerciser Comp‘A.ny 1123 Broadway, Now York City1123 Broadway, New York City Macfadden’s Health E^xerciser You cannot become a boxer without supple, well-developed muscles. A few minutes’ daily exercise will bring you the necessary development, and besides give you quickness and endurance. The Macfadden exercisers are the best in the market. The elastic pulls direct; the arrangement of pulleys gives any de- sired strength of pull, so that any exerciser can instantly be adjusted to the strength of an infant or a giant. The exercisers are made in six grades, ranging in price from $i to $5. POPULAR. GRADES A $5.00 B 4.00 C 3.00 D 2.00 O i.oo American Exerciser Compa.rvySTRENGTH from EATING By BERNARR MACFADDEN How and What to Eat and Drink to Develop Supple- ness, Strength and Beauty of Body BRIEF SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS Value of Normal Appetite. Digestion Begins in Mouth. Importance of Mastification. Process of Digestion. Air, Water and Solids as Foods. One, Two and Three Meals a Day Plan Discussed. Meat and Mixed Diet. Vegetarian Diet. Cooking. Raw Foods. Health Foods. Importance of Proper Foods. Influence of Occupation. Temperament on Appetite. Influence of Temperature on Demand for Food. Overeating and Its Evils. Effect of Liquors. Drinking at Meals. Coffee and I'ea Evils. White Bread Evil. Elements of Common Foods. What to Select in the Way of Food to Produce Fat, Muscular Tissue, Mental Activity. Complete list of the chief food products, with their chemical analyses. Bo\jnd in ClotK, sent post-paid for $1.00 Physical Culture Publishing Company Townsend Bvillding 23th STREET AND BROADWAY NEW YORK CITYi A- • » jr. 1 . • 4*! * * «» • - »l * r" . •» ■' ‘f # iit • . J /•- ^ ^ ^ • . *J *■ •f • *1 ij ’' • I" • ♦ '■ * T * 4* 9>Jfi «r ■ ^ V X '■ '•', ■ .1 y -. ' • . * f.. *.»'*?.* aA ■■• ‘ .4 ■* • • * ‘ , /J , ■» # ■ r . . -r ■ # 1 & i 1 X * 4- 1 • • • « i.‘i" ♦ 4 . * »- / * • y . •' ' ‘ •• > * / \ •• * f \ .Jr % '^t^ 4 hf' ^ SLSSSSj: 1p r t ♦ if ' i V .if.j' .0 • y r 1* ■* «« p. r « * i '■ . . .v.*«. ■' f V '■' t 4 A; '^w;. > -I t