i'm iMiiwiy i< > in; »i'»Vi'W»fY ?»>?•» i in him iiiYfi<«4rtil ujiatipfify. •m3 v / 1/ «♦ y L L Y U, A k Jr & 1 A fy v** J 41 k « n] rzz: 9 & * \ xj > *sr •■* h v VI l?*CHEAP AND NUTRITIOUS FOODS. A GREAT deal has been said and written lately as to the wasteful habits of our people ; their extravagant use of flesh food, and theSel7ct of o Ws •ancd Tututlp)us Vegetables—particularly the seeds of leguminous Ff.tr81’ +S ch as, 1AaS’ Hancot Beans, and Lentils. F. BAX has loner studied to supply the public with goods of undoubted purity and fine quality, and can offer the following at moderate prices: WHITE HARICOT BEANS. WHOLE GREEN PEAS. BROWN OR RED Do. Do. WHITE Do WHOLE GERMAN LENTILS. GREEN SPLIT PEAS. SPLIT EGYPTIAN Do. WHITE Do. TO Invalids, and those persons who suffer from Dyspepsia in its varied forms, F. BAX would offor the following Meals, which can be used as uvleetablS’-dn'twFPuddinS8 (see the recipes under head LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY NTILS. >D. Classmark: cooffff rt AM CORN. Dr BREAD. Do. EAL, 7o Use. >okery -3 v C. iey, LONDON.GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1878. [TWELFTH INTERNATIONAL MEDAL AWARDED TO THE FIRM.] “ The fresh and splendid distinction of a Gold Medal now given in 1878 ” —Paris Correspondent of the Daily Telegraph. % FRY’S COCOA EXTRACT. IN PACKETS AND TINS. Guaranteed Pure Cocoa only, tlie superfluous oil extracted. ■‘If properly prepared there is no .nicer or more wholesome preparation of Cocoa.”—Dr. Hassall. I find it to consist of Pure Cocoa, from which a portion of its oily ingre- dients has been extracted. It is free from sugar and other admixture. The delicate flavour and nutritious qualities of this article account for the hitrh estimation in which it is held by the public.” CHARLES A. CAMERON, M.D., P.R.C.S.I., Medical Officer of Health and Analyst for Dublin. “A Gold Medal has been awarded to Messrs. J. S. Fry & Sons for thoir chocolate and Cocoas, the jury basing their award on the perfection of manufacture shown in the products, the skilful selection of the raw material Daily Tdfgr%hlghXj imProved machinery."—Paris Correspondent of the TRY also FRY’S CARACAS COCOA.—A delicious preparation.LANCET. “ Carefully prepared and highly nutritious.” British Medical Journal. “ Well adapted for children, aged people, and invalids.” London Medical Record. “ Can unhesitatingly recommend Neave’s Food." Sanitary Record. ‘‘As a substitute for mother’s milk Neave’s Food may be conscien- tiously recommended. ” Recommended by the Faculty generally. AND IN ONE SHILLING CANISTERS. SOLD EVERYWHERE. WHOLESALE OF J. R. NEAVE & CO., Fordingbridge, England. OLD PLATED ARTICLES RE-SILVERED BY ELKINGTON’S PATENTED PROCESS, AND MADE EQUAL TO NEW. CHARGES MODERATE. F. EWBANK LEEFE, fi31ecti'o-$91vcr«siiitIa a aa <9 Wilder, 289, GOSWELL ROAD, LONDON. HEALTH AND STRENGTH TO ALL. MAKES DELICIOUS CUSTARD AND BLANCMANGE. millions of Tins and Packets Sold Annually. Of all Chemists and Grocers Everywhere.ECONOMICAL COOKERY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21528135ECONOMICAL COOKERY FOR THE MIDDLE CLASSES. BY MRS. ADDISON. SECOND EDITION. HODDER AND STOUGHTON, 27, PATERNOSTER ROW. MDCCCLXXIX.I * utm-Ei'b"rPREFACE. I HATE lived abroad the greater part of my life; but having now settled in England, under far different circumstances to those which marked my early years, I find by comparison with some of my most intimate neighbours, who are also compelled to study economy, that my weekly expenditure is considerably less than theirs. This fact I attribute to the constant use of foreign cookery in my small establishment, as also to the close study of kitchen economy, which is undoubtedly the duty of every mistress, whatever her circumstances, but more especially of those who by birth and education are fitted to fill any station, but who from varied causes are compelled to livq, in a humble sphere. I have always found my modest dishes so highly appreciated, and have so often been asked for my recipes, that the idea has suggested itself to me of writing a Cookery Book, which will, I trust, not only be a pecuniary help to myself, but a real assistance to those who like “nice dishes well prepared,” yet whose minds, from want of practical experience, seldom soar beyond the dreary and expensive rounds of beef and mutton. Many of the subjoined recipes have been partaken of among the glitter of silver and glass, on the tables of theVI PREFACE. rich and great in distant lands, or equally appreciated when eaten with a wooden spoon dipped into the family saucepan, which serves for dish and plate and all, in the rude hut of the lonely peasant on the mountains of Madeira. They have often been enjoyed in different parts of the Continent, or eaten with thankfulness, “ far from the busy haunts of men,” on the desert plains of Southern Africa. A few of the Eecipes are introduced, irrespective of economy—only for their excessive merits and peculiarity: by myself—such as these are only indulged in on rare occasions, and when eggs are at their cheapest. I find from long experience that economists should never be without tinned meats among their stores: not only are they invaluable in case of unexpected visitors, but (as I will presently show) they are capable of being made into all sorts of tempting and nourishing dishes at a very small cost. Who has not at some time or other experienced a pang, on the sudden arrival of an uninvited guest, at the over- whelming remembrance that “ there is only cold mutton in the larder ” ? With tinned food in the house, none of these pangs need in future be experienced; the “ cold mutton,” which might have sufficed for the plain family dinner, now appears as a parsleyed ornament, while the table is quickly furnished with savoury meats such as delight the heart of man, and make him a cheerful coun- tenance. I shall occasionally make mention of vegetables which are not often grown in England: but why should they not be? In my own small garden I have had cala- bashes and tomatoes growing with tropical luxuriance: the seeds of these plants, as wrell as of pumpkins, gourds, etc.,Vll PREFACE. are procurable of most seedsmen, and are to be bought quite as cheaply as other vegetables which take up more space, and are not capable of affording nearly as much nutritious food. The practice of constantly having soup at one’s meals is undeniably an economical one if neither bones nor meat are bought from which to make it. No carefully conducted household should be without a Digester, the cost of which is only four-and-sixpence for one which contains two gallons of stock. Into this useful saucepan every bone which has done its “ duty in the flesh ” should be cast, and allowed to remain in its “ watery grave ” so long as any portion of its nourishment exists. The Digester should be always kept three parts full, and remain beside the fire night and day. "Whenever soup is required, the stock should be first well skimmed, and then placed in a clean saucepan: the Digester meanwhile undergoes a careful inspection; all soft bones are removed, and fresh ones added, if there be any in the house to add; in any case it must again be filled three parts full of water, and returned to its allotted home in one corner of the kitchen range. In conclusion: if your means are small, and your appetite requires tempting with the varied viands which Nature’s bounty proves to be necessary for the good of man, let me beg you to escape from the trammels of the ordinary British fare, and give the following recipes an unprejudiced and honest trial. THE AUTHORESS.NOTE TO SECOND EDITION, IN once again bringing my little book before tbe public, I beg sincerely to thank all those friends who have so generously tried to help me by placing their manuscript recipe-books at my disposal. At the same time I am bound to confess that in only a very few instances have I been able conscientiously to add to my previous collection, under the strict denomination of “ Economical Cookery.” The art of cooking, which was formerly delegated only to cooks and kitchen-maids, is now being acquired by ladies, so that such dishes as could once only be enjoyed by the rich, may now with a little judicious modification be seen on the tables of the poorer classes as well. I have in many instances not specified exact quantities in my recipes : e.g., “ two or three eggs ” indicates that eggs must be used in the recipe given, but if eggs happen to be dear, two will do instead of three, and in many cases perhaps only one: the same of butter; when I say “a piece of butter,” I mean as much or as little to be used as circumstances will permit; for this reason— my book is intended for the mistress of a family who wishes to study economy. One word I must here say in defence of my frequent use of garlic, an article so seldom mentioned in English cookery-books, and still less often found in English homes. In very moderate doses,—so moderate that its one objection of making the breath unpleasant is unnoticed,—there is scarcely any savoury dish but to which it imparts that “nameless something” which makes foreign cookery so nice and tasty, and the want of which makes ordinary English dishes so insipid. In conclusion, I would beg my lady readers to study w’ell the subject of cookery in all its branches, there being nothing menial, nothing derogatory to their dignity, in knowing how to cook, and how to make the nicest things with the least expensive materials. 1 KATE ADDISON.1 SOUPS, 1. Portuguese Soup. Take one pound of pickled pork, and simmer in about two quarts of water. Cut up two large onions, two cabbages cut into quarters, six pieces of pumpkin the same size as the cabbage when quartered (vegetable-marrow will do as a substitute, but is not so rich), two turnips cut in halves, about eight potatoes entire, three or four bits of celery, a few sprigs of common thyme, and a little marjoram. Place all these vegetables in the saucepan with the pickled pork and water, and stew gently until quite tender. When served, break a small quantity of stale bread into the tureen, grate some cheese over it, and moisten with some of the liquor from the soup. Carefully place the vege- tables on the bread, adding some more liquor, and when the tureen is full grate more cheese thickly on the top of the vegetables. The meat is not served up in the soup, but is very nice to eat separately, either hot or cold. 2. Portuguese Bread Soup. Cut up about four onions, and brown them well in some dripping ; add two spoonsful of tomato sauce, some pepper and salt, and some herbs, then as much water as you want soup. Let it boil about three hours. Cut up some pieces of stale bread in a tureen, and pour the soup over it ; let it stand some time, covered up for the bread to soak well, and then grate a little cheese over the top. 3. Pumpkin or Vegetable-marrow Soup. Cut up one large Spanish onion, and place it in a saucepan with some dripping and about six tomatoes (tomato sauce will do if the tomatoes are not procurable), and let the onion brown slightly; add a little water and twelve pieces of pumpkin or vegetable-marrow cut rather small, a sprig of thyme, and popper and salt to taste. Cook it until the vegetables are reduced to pulp.ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 2 4. Chesnut Soup. nr Take two quarts of liquor in which any salt meat has been boiled ; place on the fire in a saucepan ; add three pints of chesnuts, quite freed from skin, some onion and tomato, and a little common thyme. When the chesnuts are half done, add some potatoes and pumpkin, or vegetable-marrow cut small, and two turnips. When served, add two tablespoonsful of vinegar (if vinegar be liked), a little stale bread in the tureen, which must be well sopped first in the liquor, and some grated cheese placed on the top of the soup. 5. Calabash Soup. Cut up two or three Spanish onions, and place them in a saucepan with some dripping, and two or three tomatoes (tomato- sauce will do as well); add a very little water; cut the calabash (which will grow anywhere in England) in small pieces, put it in the saucepan, and let it simmer several hours. Add a few potatoes (to thicken the soup), and some herbs. 6. Haricot Bean Soup. Place one quart of beans in water overnight. Next morning cut up two or three onions and tomatoes, brown them in some dripping, drain the beans which have been soaking, place them with the onions and tomatoes ; add sufficient water to cover them (or stock is best if you have it at hand), some herbs, pepper and salt, and let the whole boil seven or eight hours, adding more stock or water as required, and thicken with seven or eight potatoes about an hour before you dish it up. 7. Lentil Soup. Soak half a pound of lentils in water all night (the whole lentils are better for this soup than the split ones); in the morning put them on to boil in as much stock as you require soup, add a good large onion chopped rather small, pepper and salt to taste, and in the season a few pieces of pumpkin or vegetable-marrow ; when these are not procurable, use potatoes, either cold boiled ones, or a few raw ones, just to thicken the Boup. Let it boil seven hours. 8. Onion Soup. Cut four Spanish onions in rings, and fry them a nice brown ; add five tablespoonsful of flour and some stock, gently stirringSOUPS. o the ingredients for a few minutes ; then pepper and salt, and a few herbs ; break up some pieces of bread in the tureen and sop them with the liquor ; stir the bread until thoroughly mashed, then throw the remainder of the soup over it and serve. 9. Jerusalem Artichoke Soup. Take some liquor that pickled pork has been boiled in (if not too salt), add to it an onion and some pepper, six pounds of arti- chokes, and let them boil until quite tender; then take them out and pass them through a sieve into a basin, adding as much of the stock in which they have been boiled as will make them nice and thick. They take a long time to rub through a hair sieve, but two hours is sufficient time for the whole process, as the artichokes do not take above half an hour to become tender. 10. Sorrel Soup. Boil a bunch of sorrel (as much as you can hold comfortably in one hand) in two quarts of water or stock. When the sorrel is boiled, take it out of the liquor and mince it rather coarsely; strain the soup, and put the minced sorrel back into it with some very small bits of bread, which must simmer gently for about fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, and add the soup gradually to them ; then return all to the sauce- pan again, and leave it beside the fire until the mixture begins to simmer, when it must be at once dished up. 11. Another Sorrel Soup. Prepare as above, without mincing the sorrel. Cut some very thin slices of bread, and lay them in a pie-dish neatly in layers until the dish is full; pour the soup by degrees upon the bread until it is thoroughly soaked. Put the boiled sorrel on the top of the bread, and place it in the oven to brown; it will take nearly an hour to do this; the top must not be too dry, and will occasionally require moistening. Note.—The sorrel for these two soups is to be found in almost every field; that kind which is sometimes cultivated in a garden comer is precisely the same, only the leaves are larger and the plant finer. 12. Friars’ Chicken Soup. Take the stock in which a chicken has been boiled, skim it, and place it in a saucepan on the fire ; when it boils, add some4 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. minced parsley, (a good handful,) and some pepper and salt. Five minutes before dinner beat up the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, adding gradually some of the soup to them, and then put the mixture back near the fire to simmer. Grate a very little nutmeg into the tureen, and pour the soup on it. 13. Barley Soup. Two quarts of stock, a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, parsley, four onions, salt and pepper. Put these tilings into a saucepan and simmer gently for three or four hours. 14. Lobster Soup. Take a tin of lobsters and turn the contents into a quart of stock which has previously been boiling an hour, and which has been flavoured with onion, sweet herbs, a strip of lemon-peel, pepper and salt. After you add the lobsters, and with them a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, let the soup simmer gently for ten minutes, then serve very hot. 15. Oyster Soup. Open a tin of oysters ; take out all the liquor from the tin, and add it to a pint or more of stock ; let this simmer for half an hour. Mix smoothly in a basin two ounces of flour, a little bit of butter, a good pinch of salt, and cayenne to taste, with some milk. Add this to the stock, stirring gently until it all thickens. Throw in the oysters which are in the tin five minutes before you dish up the soup. 16. Crayfish Soup. Take one quart of stock, season with pepper and salt, two or three cloves, a little mace and whole pepper. Simmer for half an hour ; have ready fifty crayfish (shelled), add them to the stock, and thicken with flour wetted up with anchovy sauce. Let it simmer half an hour longer, then serve. Note.—Crayfish are to be caught in great numbers during the summer in almost all the English rivers. They make their homes in holes in the banks, where they watch for their prey, and where they in turn become the prey of wary schoolboys. 17. Bouillabaisse. Take some fresh-water fish—perch, roach, or flounders; boil them until they are done ; lift them out, and free them as much asSOUPS. 5 possible from bones. Save the water in which they were boiled, place it in a clean saucepan (after straining it), add two or three onions cut up small, a few cloves, a little allspice and whole pepper, some cayenne, anchovy sauce, an ounce of parsley, and two laurel leaves. Let these boil together, adding more water if necessary, for an hour ; then strain the liquor, add the boiled fish, let them simmer (but do not let them break) for a few minutes. Place a thick slice of bread in the tureen, soak it with the liquor ; lift the fish up carefully, serve them in a small dish, and place the liquor in the tureen over the bread. In helping this soup, a fish (or portion of one) is placed in each soup-plate as well as the soup. N.B. Perch or flounders are best. 18. Vegetable Soup Equal quantities of carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onions, a root or two of celery, and some herbs. Fry the vegetables in a little chipping, after cutting them in slices; add as much water or stock as you want soup ; put in some salt, pepper, and the herbs. Let them all boil until quite tender, then add a thickening of flour, mixed with a teaspoonful of mustard. Let the whole simmer for half an hour longer, and then serve. 19. Pea Soup. Three pints of liquor in which beef or pork has been boiled ; add two onions cut up in quarters, and some herbs. Let this boil until the onions are soft. Then add a twopenny packet of pea powder and a teaspoonful of currie powder made into a paste; stir this well into the soup for a few minutes, then let all boil together for two hours longer, and serve. 20. Stew Soup. Liquor in which tripe has been boiled ; add to it half a pint of split lentils (which must have been soaked the night previous), one or two turnips, a few potatoes, and a root of celery; add pepper and salt. Let all boil together gently for at least four hours, and then serve. 21. Tongue Soup. Pteserve the liquor in which a tongue has been boiled ; add to it the pieces of the root, gristle, and bones, two turnips, twoECONOMICAL COOKERY. 6 or three onions, two carrots, some celery, and a few herbs. Thicken with flour, boil altogether about three hours, and serve. 22. Carrot Soup. Weigh two pounds of carrots, peel and slice them ; also a few onions. Fry the onions and carrots in a saucepan, and add two quarts of stock, some pepper and salt. When the vegetables are tender, take them out and pulp them through a sieve into a basin ; add as much of the stock in which they were boiled as will make them the thickness required ; return the soup to the fire, bring it to the boil, and then serve with sippets of toast in the tureen. 23. Potato Soup. Fry two onions in a saucepan, add fourteen good-sized potatoes cut in quarters, and boil them in some stock until the potatoes can be mashed with a wooden spoon; pass them through the sieve, return them to the saucepan, adding pepper, salt, and a good piece of dripping. Let them simmer for a few minutes, and then serve. 24. Rice Soup. Boil a small teacupful of rice in a quart of water for an hour, add salt and pepper. Five minutes before you take it off, stir in one egg well beaten, and a little parsley chopped fine. Note.—This recipe I have placed under the heading of soups, but it is very nice as a luncheon dish ; it must not be too liquid, and the parsley ought to float on the top, which gives it a pretty appearance. 25. Sopa de Cheiros (Portuguese Herb Soup). Brown a large Spanish onion, and two or three raw tomatoes ; add as much hot water as you require soup. Tie up a few sprigs of common thyme and knotted marjoram, and throw them into the soup with pepper and salt to taste. Break up some pieces of bread into a tureen (not quite half full), and grate some cheese over the bread. Pour the soup over it, take out the herbs, and sift some more grated cheese on the top. Cover up the tureen for a few minutes while the bread is soaking, and then serve. Note.—This delicious soup is very quickly made ; ten minutes boiling will suffice to flavour it beautifully. It must be served very hot.SOUPS. 7 26. Sopa d’Agriao (Portuguese Watercress Soup). Boil a large bunch of watercresses in water, add salt, pepper, ' and a piece of dripping. As soon as the watercresses are tender, the soup is ready. Break up some bread and put it in a tureen to soak with a little of the watercress liquor. Poach two or three eggs in the saucepan with the soup; lift them carefully out, and when the soup (with the watercresses left in) has been thrown into the tureen, place the poached eggs on the top. Serve very hot. 27. Portuguese Fish Soup. This is made from the bones of any fish which has been filleted. Boil the bones until all the goodness is out of them ; strain the liquor into a pan. On the following day, fry some onions and tomatoes, pour the fish stock on to them ; add salt, pepper, herbs, and spice, and some walnut ketchup to taste. Serve with toasted sippets. 28. French Turnip Soup. Boil some turnips until quite tender ; pass them through a sieve. Fry an onion imtil it is tender, but not brown ; place it in a saucepan ; add the mashed turnips, pepper, salt, and about a quart of milk; boil until thick enough. When you serve, grate a little cheese on the top. 29. Cheese Soup. Fry two slices of bread in some dripping; when nicely browned, add as much stock as you require soup, pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound of cheese cut in thin slices. Stir well, and when it has boiled for half an hour beat the yolks of two eggs with a little milk, and just stir quickly into the soup a minute before you serve it up. 30. Tomato Soup (Portuguese). Cut up about fourteen large tomatoes and three large onions ; boil and mash them ; add two quarts of stock, a spoonful of si^gar, one of salt, black and cayenne pepper; thicken with flour.Economical cookery. FISH, 1. Portuguese Mackerel. Make some deep cuts in a large mackerel, rub into the cuts some onion and parsley minced small, salt and pepper. Put the fish into a dish or tin, with some vinegar, into the oven; turn it every now and then, and bake until quite brown. 2. English Baked Mackerel. Clean a large mackerel, take out the roe, mince it with a bit of bacon fat, minced parsley and onion, a few bread-crumbs, salt, and cayenne pepper. Fill the fish with this forcemeat; sew up the slit. Bake the mackerel in the oven, basting now and then with a little butter (having first floured it) for rather more than half an hour. 3. Pickled Mackerel. Boil two or three small mackerel, and place them in a pie-dish until cold. Boil a little of their liquor with some vinegar, bay- leaves, pepper, and salt. Pour this over the mackerel. To eat cold. Will keep three or four days. 4. Fried Mackerel. Split open a good-sized mackerel, rub it with a clove of garlic, some salt (first remove the backbone), pepper, and a little lemon- juice ; fry it a rich brown. Mackerel done this way is delicious eaten with sliced cucumber, tomato, and onion, pepper, vinegar, and oil. 5. Fried Herrings. Soak some salt red-herrings in water all night,, wipe them dry, clean and skin them, then bone them; cut thoai in pieces about9 FISH. two inches long, cover them with egg and bread-crumb, and fry until they assume a good colour. 6. Baked White Herrings. Clean some very fresh herrings, split them open, remove the bones, sprinkle each herring, after washing and wiping it well, with cayenne pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Told up the herrings tightly, having removed the heads and tails. Pack them in a pie-dish or a covered jar, with a bay-leaf between each layer ; cover the herrings with vinegar, and bake in the oven for two hours or longer. To be eaten cold. 7. Dried Haddock. Place the fish in a dish in the oven with some water ; let it boil for a few minutes ; remove the skin, dry the fish well, then put it down before the fire with a piece of butter on it. Serve very hot. 8. Dried Cod (Bacalhao). Remains of dry-salted cod which has been boiled ; fiy a nice brown. To be eaten with oil and vinegar. Note.—This is a favourite dish among the Portuguese, and is a nice variety for breakfast. ~ 9. Dried Cod—“Twice-laid.” Boil a nice flaky piece of dry-salted cod, after allowing it to Boak in water for twelve hours. Drain it, and tear the flesh from the bones in large flakes with two forks. Have ready some parsley butter, and about six large potatoes, hot. Break them a little, and place them and the fish in the saucepan where the parsley butter is ; add black pepper to taste, and stir all the ingredients for about ten minutes. This is a most economical dish, as it can be made from the remains of plain boiled salt cod and parsley butter and cold potatoes ; but is not as nice as when made with the hot materials, and with the dried salt cod. 10. Cod Pie. The remains of fresh boiled cod : remove the bones, add chopped parsley, pepper and salt, moisten with anchovy orECONOMICAL COOKERY. IG Worcester sauce and a little stock. Mash some potatoes with a little milk, place them on the cod and seasonings in a pie- dish, and bake until the potatoes are nicely browned on the top. Note.—The remains of any fish, or tinned fish of any sort, can be used in this way. 11. Fricandeau of Cod. Bone the remains of cold cod, mix with oyster sauce or a few tinned oysters, anchovy sauce, some spice, cayenne pepper, and salt. Soak several slices of bread in milk, mash them up, and mix with the fish, etc. Place the mixture in a buttered tin, strew bread-crumbs on the top, with a few dabs of butter on them. Bake for an hour. Turn out of the tin and serve. 12. Boiled Pike. Scale and clean one or two small pike ; boil in plenty of salt and water ; about ten minutes before they are done add a cupful of vinegar to the water to make the flesh of the fish firm. Serve with parsley or anchovy butter. Note.—The remains of this fish, well cleared of its many bones, can be served up in many ways,—either curried, or made into rissoles, or like cod pie (Recipe No. 10). 13. Salmon Mayonnaise. Turn out a tin of salmon (preserved), free it from the liquor and bones. Make the following sauce : boil one egg hard, mash the yolk quite smooth with a silver spoon, add to it a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, a small saltspoonful of sugar and salt, cayenne pepper to taste; add some oil, drop by drop, stirring all the while, a little anchovy and Worcester sauce, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and lastly a wineglassful of milk. Pour this sauce over the sahnon ; cover it with young lettuces torn into small pieces, and place over them the white of the egg cut in rings. Note.—The tinned salmon for this dish is actually nicer than the fresh, is more economical, and can be always in readiness for sudden emergencies. 14. Rissoles of Salmon. The contents of one tin of salmon freed from bone and liquor : pepper and salt to taste; sufficient fine bread-crumbs to makeFISH. ii the fish adhere ■well; fry in boiling lard in any shape preferred— either little rolls or square cakes. Note.—These rissoles can be made of any cold fish, but none are equal to the tinned salmon. 15. Salmon Cecils. The contents of one tin of salmon, freed from bone, a few potatoes mashed very smooth, a hard-boiled egg cut into small pieces, some chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a little anchovy sauce, and sufficient of the liquor in the tin to moisten the whole ; knead into little flat cakes, and fry until both sides are nicely browned. Note.—This recipe likewise can be applied to any cold fish. 16. Salmon Stewed. Remains of cold salmon, or a tin of preserved salmon : two eggs, hard boiled, cut into slices ; put the salmon, free from bone and liquor, and the eggs, into half a pint of milk, thicken with flour, and add a little piece of butter, salt, and pepper ; stir it until boiling hot. Make a wall of mashed potatoes on a dish, and pour the contents of the saucepan into the middle of the mashed potatoes. 17. Fish Macaroni. Any cold fish : free it from skin and bone ; add seasoning of salt and pepper, and a little minced parsley ; have ready some boiled macaroni, mix the fish with it on a deep dish, grate cheese thickly over the macaroni, and place a few dabs of butter on the cheese; bake in a brisk oven until the macaroni colours. 18. Kegeree. Any cold fish (or tinned will do) picked from the bones : a teacupful of boiled rice, a teaspoonful of raw mustard, two eggs well beaten, cayenne to taste, and some salt; mix together, place in a saucepan, and keep stirring until it boils. Serve very hot. These quantities will only make a small dish. 19. Sprat Pie. Sprats (divested of their skin and backbone) which have been fried : mix them, all beaten up, with a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and butter, or milk, to moisten them. Lay12 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. in a pie-dish, and fill it up with mashed potatoes. Bake in the oven until the potatoes colour. 20. Sprat Croquetees. Cold fried sprats, prepared as in the above recipe, and with the same seasoning. Mix with the fish some well-mashed potatoes, make into round balls, and fry a good brown. Note.—These two recipes (Nos. 19 and 20) are well worth trying, and are most economical, as cold sprats have hitherto been considered unusable. 21. Bloater Pie. Fry two or three small bloaters, skin and bone them, place the fiesh in a pie-dish with a little minced parsley, cayenne pepper, and a few dabs of butter. Place some mashed potatoes over, and bake for half an hour in a brisk oven. t 22. Fish Cake. The remains of cold fish, a few cold potatoes, a little chopped parsley, a few bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Work these ingredients together until no lumps remain ; fry in the shape of a flat cake until nicely browned. Make a sauce with a little butter, salt, a squeeze of lemon, and a wineglassful of milk thickened with flour; pour this over the fish cake, and serve very hot. 23. Fish Scallop. The remains of cold fish and cold melted butter. Mix with some anchovy sauce, pepper, and salt. Lay in scallop-shells; place bread-crumbs over, and some dabs of butter, and bake about twenty minutes. Serve in the shells. 24. Lobster Currie. Open a tin of lobster, cut the lobster into small pieces, slice an onion, weigh three ounces of butter, measure two table- spoonsful of currie-powder, one dessert-spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt; mix these raw ingredients well together ; fry in a pan, stirring all the time until the onion becomes brown and tender ; then add a wineglassful of milk, the juice of a lemon, and stir in the lobster (freed from its liquor) for eight minutes. Serve very hot.FISH. 13 25. Oyster Currie (Tinned). Same as lobster currie, except that instead of the milk you put in two wineglasses of oyster liquor from the tin, one table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and four ounces of butter. 26. Lobster Rissoles. One tin of lobster, the fish to be mixed well with some mashed potatoes, pepper, salt, and a little liquor of the lobster, if not sufficiently moist: form into flat cakes, and fry in boiling dripping or oil until nicely browned. 27. “Oyster” Toast. Take two or three sardines, bone them, and break into little pieces ; add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, one of Worcester sauce, and one of black pepper, two raw eggs well-beaten, a piece of butter, and a teaspoonful of flour. Place the mixture in a saucepan, and keep stirring until very hot. Spread on buttered toast, and serve. 28. Scalloped Oysters. The contents of a tin of oysters, an ounce of butter, a wine- glassful of milk, pepper and salt : put these ingredients into a saucepan, and thicken with a little flour. When quite hot, butter some scallop-shells, cover them with bread-crumbs, lay in the oysters, etc., place bread-crumbs on the top, with a few little pieces of butter, brown them in the oven, and serve very hot. \ 29. Stewed Fish. Boil either plaice or soles in water with two onions sliced. Make the following sauce : yolk of two eggs, the juice of one lemon, a little vinegar, a pinch of saffron to colour it yellow, salt, cayenne pepper to taste, and two tablespoonsful of flour ; add to it one pint of the water in which the fish has been boiled and a small piece of butter ; boil until it thickens, stirring well. Serve with the onions placed on the fish, and the sauce thrown over all. 30. Fried Fish and Sauce. Fry any kind of fish ; keep it hot; cut some onions and tomatoes in slices, and place in a saucepan with sweet-oil or14 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. butter to fry ; add pepper, a few cloves, a little ground cinnamon, a little vinegar, and a small quantity of sugar and salt. When the onions are done, put in the fish which has been already fried, and let all boil together for a few minutes. Any cold fish can be warmed up in this sauce, and is extremely nice. 31. Portuguese Stewed Fish. Fry about one pound of Spanish onions and one pound of tomatoes ; when ready, place any cold fried fish in the frying- pan with the onions and tomatoes; add some stock thickened with flour, some pepper and salt; heat all thoroughly, and then serve. Great care must be taken in removing the fish from the frying-pan not to break it. 32. Portuguese Fish Rice. Save the liquor in which cod or any other fish has been boiled; on the following day fry some onions and tomatoes and herbs ; add the stock in which the fish was boiled, and enough rice to take it up, adding pepper and salt. When the rice is nearly done, stir in any remains of cold fish, freed from bone, and serve very hot. 33. Scotch Dish of Haddock and Sauce. Skin two fresh haddocks ; cut slices longways off the bone, and lay them aside ; boil the skins, trimmings, heads, etc., with seasonings and some parsley ; strain off the liquor, and thicken it with milk and flour; have an egg whisked up in the tureen, and a little finely minced parsley. Take the fish cutlets, and when the thickened liquor is at boiling-point place them in it and boil for ten minutes; then gently stir some of the sauce into the tureen, or deep dish, among the egg and parsley, talcing care not to let it curdle. Add the fish with the sauce that remains, and serve very hot. 34. lobster Pudding. One tin of lobster free from the liquor and chopped small, one ounce of chopped suet, two ounces of bread-crumbs, one egg well beaten : season these ingredients with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Mix well, and tie in a buttered pudding- basin. Boil for one hour. Serve with melted butter.15 FISH. 35. Fish Pie. One pound of cold dressed fish (no skin or bone); stew in two ounces of butter very gently; steep one thick shoe of stale bread in boiling milk, add it to the fish and butter, then beat these ingredients in a mortar; add pepper and salt, and two eggs well-beaten ; place these tilings in a buttered tin, and bake for an hour and a half in a quick oven. Turn out on to a dish, and serve with melted butter. %■ 36. Fried Oysters. Take two spoonsful of flour and smooth them with half a pint of milk, add a teacupful of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, some pepper, and two well-beaten eggs. Divest a tin of oysters of all their liquor, dip each oyster into the batter, and fry a light brown. 37. Oyster Pie. Make some batter as in the preceding recipe ; lay the contents of a tin of oysters without the liquor at the bottom of a pie- dish ; cover them with the batter, and bake in a moderate oven until the top looks set and begins to colour.ECONOMICAL COOKERY. i6 MEAT. 1. Tortas. Mince any sort of cold meat, mix with it some finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper, and a little gravy wherewith to bind the “ tortas.” Make them into flat cakes, dip them in egg, and fry them a light brown colour. Note.—A small mincing-machine is almost indispensable when economy of servants’ labour is a consideration. Mincing- machines are by no means expensive, and will last a lifetime with moderate care. 2. African “ Babotie.” One onion, one cupful of milk, one thick slice of bread, six sweet almonds blanched and pounded, two eggs, any sort of meat minced, one small spoonful of currie-powder, a little bit of butter, pepper and salt. Set a slice of bread to soak in the milk, pound the almonds, fry the onion after cutting it up very finely, beat two eggs and add to them the milk which remains from the cupful, part of which was used for soaldng the bread ; mix these ingredients well together, and add the minced meat, currie-powder, butter, salt and pepper. Rub a pie-dish with a lemon or some vinegar, put in the mixture, and bake half an hour. It should look like a custard pudding when taken out of the oven. 3. Dormers. Boil half a pound of rice, drain it, and when cold add a quarter of a pound of suet, and some scraps of any sort of cold meat (about a pound), both minced very fine ; add some pepper and salt, and mix all well together, wetting with gravy or stock of any kind ; roll them up in the shape of sausages, and fry in boiling dripping. To be served either dry or with a nice thick gravy poured over them.*7 MEAT. 2 4. Garlic Pork. Cut up some streaky fresh pork into small pieces, rub them with salt, pound a few cloves of garlic, according to the quantity required, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some Chili peppers. Pack them closely in a stone jar, and add sufficient cold vinegar to cover them. This preparation must be made at least a week before it is required, but will keep good for months. Note.—This is the grand national dish of the Portuguese; it is the universal dish on Christinas Day, and is as essential on that occasion as roast beef to the English. Two or three rabbits cut up and prepared in the same manner are excellent. When a dish of the pork is wanted, take as much of the meat as will be required out of the vinegar, drain it, and then fry of a light-brown colour. Serve each piece on a bit of toast. A cut orange is always an accompaniment to this dish—a few drops of juice just squeezed on the pork being a great improvement to the flavour. 5. Stewed Rabbit (Portuguese). Cut up a nice-sized rabbit into small pieces, fry it with some dripping, a sliced onion, and a tomato (or a little tomato sauce), a few spices, a piece of lemon-peel, and some pepper and salt. When the rabbit is done through, take it out of the frying-pan and place it in a clean saucepan ; add some stock and thickening to the ingredients in the frying-pan ; let all come to the boil, and then throw it through a sieve over the pieces of rabbit; let all simmer for an hour or more, and then serve with sippets of toast. 6. Stewed Rabbit (English). Cut up a rabbit into nice-sized pieces, place it in a saucepan with a few slices of bacon, pepper, two onions halved, and enough water to cover them. In another saucepan boil a pound of xice for ten minutes, then stir it gently into the saucepan with the rabbit, etc. Let all boil together for a few minutes, then serve. 7. Fowl and Rice (Madeira). Put a fowl to boil in sufficient water to cover it, and allow it to boil (or simmer) for some time ; in another pan put a large Onion and a tomato, salt and pepper, to stew ; when these are soft, pass through a sieve, and add to the fowl. When the fowli8 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. is nearly done, throw in a teacupful of rice which has been well picked and washed ; do not stir or mix it in any way ; when the rice is cooked, dish the fowl, putting the rice round it. Note.—Mutton or veal ribs are very nice cooked in the same way, only they will require more water, and should be browned first. 8. Portuguese Beef and Pice. Cut up two or three onions and two or three tomatoes, fry them in a deep saucepan, add two or three pounds of fresh shin of beef, sufficient water to cover it, pepper and salt to taste. Let this simmer for some hours; then add a cupful of rice (as in the preceding recipe), or a pound of macaroni (but this will take much longer to boil than the rice). Dish the meat, and cover it with the rice or macaroni. Note.—A much larger quantity of meat than given above can be used for this dish, as, freed from the rice or macaroni, it is delicious eaten cold. Sometimes the lower part of a large sirloin is used in this way, when not too fat. 9. Leg of Mutton Piece of Beef (Stewed). (This joint is not as well known as it deserves to be. It is delicious eating, and much cheaper than sirloin—not only lower in price, but is nearly all solid meat and fat, with very little bone.) Eight or nine pounds of beef : put it on to simmer the day before it is wanted, with only a cupful of water and a little salt. Let it simmer five or six hours. Take it out of the gravy, and drain it; put the gravy into a basin, and when cold skim off the fat. Next morning, warm up the gravy, and put the beef back into it, adding a little spice, and more water when necessary, and allowing it to simmer for about eight hours. Cut some carrots in half, and boil them in a separate saucepan with an equal quantity of onions entire. A few minutes before you dish up the meat, put the boiled carrots and onions into the saucepan with the beef. When you dish up the meat, put the carrots and onions alternately round it, and send the gravy to table in a sauce-tureen. This joint is very nice to eat cold. 10. Stewed Tongue with Tomatoes. Fry some onions in a saucepan; when they are nicely browned, put in a tongue which lias not been salted at all, and sufficient19 ME A T. water to cover it; let it simmer very gently until tender ; remove it from the saucepan, and skin it; return it to the saucepan again, adding a few parboiled tomatoes and some spice, pepper and salt. Let all simmer until the tomatoes are done. Dish the tongue: with the tomatoes round it, and have some of the liquor sent to table in a sauce-tureen. Note.—The remains of the liquor serves capitally for soup. (See Tongue Soup, No. 21, p. 5.) 11. Minced Beef with Tomatoes and Onions. The remains of any cold beef minced fine : fry two or three onions cut into rings, and one or two tomatoes cut in slices ; add the minced beef and about a pint of stock, pepper and salt to taste ; thicken with flour. Have ready some mashed potatoes ; make a wall of them on a dish, and pour the contents of the saucepan into the middle. 12. Bacon Pie. Mash some potatoes, and place them in layers in a pie-dish ; between each layer of potatoes place a few thinly cut slices of bacon, a little chopped onion and parsley, and some pepper; moisten with stock or water as you proceed. Let the last layer be of potatoes, over which place a few little bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven for about an hour. 13. Plymouth Pie. Have ready some minced meat highly seasoned with pepper and salt, add some mushrooms cut up small (the pickled mush- rooms or ketchup are equally nice in the winter-time), or cham- pignons, and some chopped parsley ; moisten well with gravy or stock. Place this mixture at the bottom of a pie-dish, and fill it up with mashed potatoes, over which place little bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven until the top of the pie is browned. 14. Jugged Babbit. Cut up a large rabbit into joints; fry it in a saucepan with some forcemeat-balls ; have ready an earthenware jar with a lid; when the rabbit is nicely browned, place it in the jar, keeping out the forcemeat-balls, which will be sufficiently cooked, and will only need warming through. Cover the rabbit with some good stock, and pepper and salt, a few cloves, whole50 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. pepper, mace, a bunoh of herbs, some strips of lemon-peel, two onions, two tablespoonsful of mushroom ketchup, and a thicken- ing of flour. Place the lid on the jar, and put it in a hot oven, and there let it remain for about two hours (unless the rabbit be young, when an hour and a half will be sufficient). Take out the joints of rabbit ; warm the forcemeat-balls in the gravy before doing so, and take them out with the rabbit; place in a deep dish, and pour the gravy through a sieve over the rabbit, etc. 15. Brazilian Stew. Cut up a few onions, tomatoes, and carrots ; have ready two pounds of the shin of beef cut into pieces about two inches long, and dip each piece into vinegar. Put the vegetables and meat, pepper and salt, into a saucepan without any water, and let them simmer by the fire for three or four hours. There will be plenty of gravy, and the meat very tender. ■ 16. Haricot Beans and Pickled Pork. Take one quart of beans, and soak them all night in water; next morning boil them in a saucepan for twenty minutes ; take them out and drain them ; have ready an earthenware jar with a lid; put three-quarters of a pound of pickled pork into the jar ; add the beans, and sufficient water just to cover the whole. Bake the pork and beans in the oven from six to twelve hours 17. Sausage Pudding. One pound of sausages steeped in boiling water, to remove their skins : make some suet crust, and line a pudding-basin with it; place on the crust the sausage-meat, an onion chopped small, a few sage leaves also chopped, pepper and salt, and some stock and mushroom ketchup to moisten the whole. Cover up the pudding with the suet crust, and boil in a floured cloth for three hours. /' 18. Bacon Rolls. Make a crust with some cold potatoes well mashed, flour and milk ; roll it out into pieces about eight inches long and half the width ; place a thin slice of bacon and an oyster (tinned ones do very well) inside the crust; roll them up, and bake them for about an hour, or until the crust assumes a nice brown.MEAT. 21 19. Meat Charlotte. Line a pie-dish with stale bread, and moisten with stock or gravy ; sprinkle over this some meat (any kind of cooked meat) minced fine, and some chopped onion and parsley, pepper and salt ; add another layer of bread, which must be moistened in the same way; proceed until the pie-dish is nearly full. Over the last layer of meat and seasoning strew bread-crumbs (instead of a slice of bread), so as to hide the meat completely ; place a few little dabs of butter on the crumbs, and bake in the oven for an hour. 20. Steak and African Sauce. Fry about two pounds of beef-steak ; place it on a hot dish in the oven ; have ready one large onion cut in small pieces, lay it in the pan where the steak was fried, fry it a light brown, dredge in some flour, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, one of tomato sauce, a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, a little pepper and salt, and a teacupful of water. Let it simmer until all the ingredients are thoroughly done, constantly stirring. Pour over the steak, and serve. This sauce is delicious also with chops or slices of cold beef just warmed through. 21. Scrap Rolls. Take any little pieces of cooked meat—two or three different sorts if you happen to have them—and mince them through the machine; season them with pepper and salt, and either herbs, or parsley alone, or currie-powder, according to taste; make a crust with cold boiled potatoes, a little milk, and flour; place little pieces of the seasoned meat inside the crust, which must be cut according to the size you wish; moisten the meat with gravy, water, or milk ; roll it up in the crust, and bake for half an hour. 22. Scrap Pudding. Any little pieces of minced cooked meat, a quarter of a pound of suet, half a pound of flour, an onion chopped up very small, pepper, salt, and a little finely chopped parsley : mix all these ingredients in a basin, moisten with very little stock—just sufficient to make the mixture cling together, but it must not be wet; place in a buttered pudding-basin, tie a cloth over it, and boil for fou» hours. Turn out on a dish, and serve with made gravy in a sauce-tureen.ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 23 23. Macaroni Mutton. Fry a few slices of cold mutton (underdone is best) with a large onion cut in pieces, add some stock, sauce of any kind, pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound of macaroni. Let all simmer for two hours, and then serve. 24. Macaroni Pie. Any kind of cold meat minced through the machine, pepper, salt, a little Worcester sauce, an onion cut up small, and half a cupful of stock : place this mixture at the bottom of a pie-dish, fill it up with macaroni previously well boiled and drained. Strew the top with grated cheese and little dabs of butter. Bake in a brisk oven until the macaroni begins to colour. 25. Spiced Beef. About seven pounds of the thin flank salted : remove the inside skin, and powder the beef well with a mixture of pounded nutmeg, ginger, mace, and cloves, also black pepper and cayenne. Roll it up tight, putting a skewer at each end to keep in the seasonings. Cover it up close in a pan of cold water, and boil it for four hours. The beef must be tied with tapes or string to prevent its unrolling. When you remove it from the fire, place it between two plates with a weight on the top (or, better still, in a brawn-pan, if you happen to have one). Remove the tapes or string, and the skewers, before it comes to table. This is to be eaten cold. 26. Beef and Lentils. Fry some beef-steak cut small, or some slices of underdone cold meat, with some onions, pepper and salt. Have ready some lentils, boiled and mashed ; season them with pepper and salt, and warm them up in sufficient stock or gravy to moisten them without making them too liquid. When thoroughly hot, arrange them in a wall on a dish, and place the beef and onions in the middle with a nice thickened gravy. 27. Cassole. After soaking a pound of lentils in water all night, boil them in stock ; mash them, and place a layer of them in a buttered pie-disli. Over this layer place some mutton cutlets which have been partly fried ; moisten with gravy, fill up the pie-dish withMEAT. 23 the remainder of the lentils, place some pieces of butter on the top, and bake for at least an hour. 28. Minced Bubble-ancl-Squeak. Mince any sort of cold meat, or any mixture of meat, but let it have a little cold ham or bacon (cooked or raw) mixed with it. Fry this a. nice brown ; keep warm in the oven. Mix cold potatoes, an onion, and some boiled cabbage together, and fry in the fat left from the meat. Place the mince on a dish, and lay the vegetables over. Cauliflower or broccoli are equally as nice with this dish as the cabbages. 29. Minced Currie (Cold Meat). Mince in the machine whatever meat you wish to curry. Fry a large onion in a saucepan. Moisten some flour and currie- powder with a little stock, add it to the onion, and keep stirring while you add as much more stock as you require, and a good pinch of salt and a piece of lemon-peel. Let this boil for two or three hours. About half an hour before dinner, take a large cupful of the liquor, and place it in a small saucepan to keep hot, while into the other saucepan you throw the minced meat; stir for a little while, and then let it simmer until the meat is thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil. Have ready some boiled rice to serve with the currie, but not in the same dish, and serve the gravy which was placed in the small pan in a sauce-tureen. Note.—It is a very common mistake, in making curries, only to put in the currie-powder as a thickening a few minutes before serving. Currie being made of raw ingredients, requires to boil or simmer for a long time, otherwise there is a raw flavour which is objectionable ; and not only that, but half the quantity of currie will suffice if it boils a long time, as the heat and the flavour of it is extracted more and more according to the length of time it is on the fire. 30. Potato Puffs. Mince some cooked meat and flavour it according to taste, either with pickles cut small or mushrooms ; moisten with stock or gravy. Mash some potatoes, roll them out with a very little flour, cut them with a saucer (into the shape of one), place the meat in the centre, cover over with a piece of the rolled and cut potato paste, pinch the corners, and fry them a light brown.2 4 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 31. Potted Meat. The remains of cold salt meat. Pass the beef twice through the mincing-machine, and free it of little bits of gristle ; pound it well in a mortar, add anchovy sauce, a little good stock, pepper, and spice previously well pounded ; press the mixture into jars, and put some melted butter on the top. 32. Ensopada d’Ave (Stewed Chicken—Portuguese). Cut up into small joints a nice fowl ; put it in a pan of cold water for an hour; dry well on a cloth. Flour each piece of fowl, and fry it in a frying-pan a nice brown. Cut up some Spanish onions and tomatoes, and fry them in a saucepan ; add the fowl, a little water, pepper and salt, spice and sweet herbs. Simmer gently until cooked ; serve with toasted sippets round the dish. 33. African Chicken and Macaroni. Cut a chicken into small joints ; put it in a stewpan with three large onions sliced, and some dripping. When slightly browned, add some stock, half a pound of macaroni, salt, cayenne pepper, and tomato sauce to taste. Boil slowly for about two hours, until the stock is all absorbed, and the fowl and macaroni tender. Serve the macaroni heaped on a dish, and the pieces of chicken laid on the top. If this dish is thought too dry, take a cupful of the gravy out of the stewpan before the macaroni has absorbed it, so that it may be well flavoured, and send to table in a sauce-tureen when the fowl and macaroni are served : the same quantity taken out of the saucepan can be replaced with stock or water. 34. Ox-cheek Mould. Boil half a head two hours ; cut the meat off in slices, and lay them in a mould with some pepper, salt, and spice ; pour over it a little mushroom ketchup, and the liquor in which the cheek was boiled ; place the mould in a hot oven, and bake one hour ; when cold, turn it out. 35. Meat Sausage. Mince half a pound of fresh beef and a quarter of a pound of bacon or haan, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, two blades of pounded mace, one egg, salt and pepper; mix all together, tie very tightly in a cloth, and boil an hour and a half,25 MEAT. The meat can be cooked first: remains of cold meat and ham, or bacon if more convenient. 36. East India Currie. Fry some onions in dripping, and also a few slices of apple ; stir until quite tender; then mix in a tablespoonful of currie- powder and a pinch of salt; cut up some lean meat in small pieces about an inch square ; mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, and let it simmer gently for three hours. About ten minutes before serving add a pint of milk thickened with a little flour. Serve some rice on a separate dish. • 37. Schinken und Nudeln (Ham and Macaroni). When a cooked ham is nearly finished, hang it up for a few days to dry the meat; boil half a pound of macaroni until quite tender, drain it, grate about two tablespoonsful of the ham, stir it well into the boiled macaroni, with some pepper and a small lump of butter, place this in a cake-tin, and put it in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot, with a napkin pinned round the tin. 38. West Indian Pepper-pot. Procure a pipkin (a brown earthenware jar with a handle to it), into it put some little pieces of cold boiled salt pork, add some good stock, cayenne pepper to taste, three tablespoonsful of foot sugar, and the same quantity of casareep ; to this foundation add any odds and ends you may have in the house of either cold meat, poultry, or game. The pepper-pot must go to the fire every day, whether it be used or not, so that the ingredients are made thoroughly hot through. Stock must be added occasionally, as also casareep, pepper, and sugar according to taste. Great care must be taken neither to smoke nor burn the pepper-pot, as that would entirely spoil the contents. Never put the pepper-pot on the fire, or it will crack. This delicious dish is always brought to table in the pot in which it is kept, and warmed. Note.—Casareep is the juice of the cassava tree, prepared in some particular way by the natives of the West Indies.- It is procurable in England at Fortnum and Mason’s. A pint bottle will last a very long time, and is the only expense attendant on this favourite dish. Having once started a pepper-pot, it will be found an actual economy, as any little bits of meat or gameECONOMICAL COOKERY. 26 too little to make a dish of, are cared for and well flavoured by being consigned to the pepper-pot. A few red peppers, when obtainable, are an improving addition. 39. Bacon and Oysters. Cut a dozen slices of bacon very thin ; have ready twelve oysters just opened ; lay an oyster inside each piece of bacon, and roll it up, putting a small skewer through it : when all are ready, fry them in the frying-pan, or in a Dutch oven, for a few minutes ; place each roll on a piece of toast, and serve very hot. (Remove the skewers.) Note.—This makes a delicious entree or breakfast dish, and one that may be indulged in occasionally when oysters can be bought at fourpence a dozen. 40. Spanish Stew, or “ Guiso.” Take about two pounds of beef, brown it in the stewpan with a very little dripping, add about a pint of stock, a little salt, two or three cloves and allspice, a bay-leaf, two onions (a little garlic if approved), and three or four tomatoes cut up and the seeds omitted : let all simmer for an hour, and then add about two pounds of potatoes, pared and exit in slices. Cold roast beef may also be used, in which case all the other ingredients are stewed in the stock and the beef added last. 41. A Foreign Hash. Remains of cold leg or shoulder of mutton. Take the meat well off the bones, and if you have no digester, with stock, make some from the bones. Cut the meat into equal-sized pieces, or if more convenient, pass it through the mincing machine. Cut up two Spanish onions, four carrots, two tomatoes, and two large apples in slices ; fry these in some dripping, and when they are tender pour upon them about one quart of stock (more or less in proportion to your quantity of meat) ; then take two heaped tablespoonsful of flour, and make them into a smooth paste with a little cold water, and thicken the stock with it; then add a high seasoning of salt and pepper, a tea- spoonful of brown sugar, a few herbs (either fresh or dried), a piece of lemon-peel, a clove of garlic, one tablespoonful of fdiili vinegar, and if it be winter, and you have no tomatoes to fry with the onions and apples, add now two tablespoonsful of tomato sauce; let all these ingredients boil together for27 MEAT. three hours ; then place the saucepan beside the fire, and when it ceases to boil add the meat; stir well; then add a teaspoonful of casareep and a teaspoonful of tamarind jam. After ten minutes the hash is ready to serve, or can remain without injury to its merits on the fire until required. Note.—This sounds like an extravagant dish, but in a family where foreign articles are constantly being supplied by gifts from foreign friends, its real cost is very trifling. For instance, all the unusual ingredients here named I have seldom if ever been without during the many years I have kept house in England, and yet I may safely say I have never had to buy any of them. Once in engaging a cook,—or rather I should say that trying anomaly a general servant,—I endeavoured to ascertain her culinary knowledge. She had never heard of a currie, or a rissole, or even a potato pie. I ventured to ask what the family in whose service she had lived for five years used to do with their cold meat. “ They made ’ashes, mum,” she said. ‘‘Howl” I demanded. “ With bones, water, flour, salt, and meat.” I trust my foreign hash may fall into the hands of some who, for five long-suffering years, have eaten English ’ashes, and that they may learn by experience to appreciate the difference ! N.B. The remains of this hash warmed up on the following day, with a tablespoonful of currie powder, and served with rice, makes an excellent dish. 42. Cold Savoury Rice. Boil a breakfast-cupful of rice in a pint of stock ; drain it; butter a pie-dish, and put in a layer of rice, and as much as will stick to the sides as well; have ready any cold meat minced and flavoured with powdered spice, pepper, and salt; place this on the rice, and cover it over with the remainder of the boiled rice; tie the pie-dish firmly in a cloth, and boil it in stock for half an hour. When it is quite cold, turn it out and serve, garnishing the dish with parsley and boiled crayfish. This rice can be boiled in a shape or a common pudding-basin equally well. 43. Rice Pie (to be eaten hot). Boil a breakfast-cupful of rice in a pint of stock ; drain it; butter a pie-dish, and put in a layer of rice ; have ready any cold meat minced fine and flavoured with chopped onion andECONOMICAL COOKERY. 28 parsley, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and place this on the layer of rice ; fill up the pie-dish with the remainder of the rice, place a few dabs of butter on the top, and carefully pour in three tablespoonSful of stock or gravy. Bake for half an hour in a brisk oven. 44. Ragout of Beef. Fry an onion in some dripping, thicken one pint of stock or gravy with one tablespoonful of flour, and add it to the onion, * also some salt and pepper, and a pinch of clove powder ; then put in the minced meat, and stir ; let all simmer for half an hour ; have ready a pint of boiled or roasted chesnuts, add them to the other ingredients, and when they are hot through the dish is ready to serve. 45. Rice Slices. Boil a large cupful of rice in water, and let it thicken and mash ; drain it ; have ready any small slices of cold meat, enve- lope these slices in a coating of rice flavoured with salt and pepper ; sprinkle each side with powdered cheese, and fry them a golden brown. 46. Omelette of Calf s Liver. Mince one pound of liver and two or three slices of raw bacon ; mix with them some chopped or dried herbs, two cloves, a pinch of powdered nutmeg, some salt and pepper ; beat up two eggs, and add them and half a pint of milk to the other ingredients ; place a little butter in a pie-dish, and pour the mixture over it. Bake in a hot oven for an hour. 47. Sausage Toad-in-the-Hole. Place one pound of fresh sausages in a pie dish ; mix four tablespoonsful of flour with one pint of milk and one egg well beaten, salt and pepper ; pour this over the sausages, and bake in a brisk oven for one hour. 48. Fried Veal. Cut some cold veal in equal-sized slices ; pepper and salt them, and sprinkle with ground spices and powdered herbs ; wet them with the yolk of an egg, and cover them with bread-MEAT. *9 Crumbs ; fry them a nice brawn, and serve them with thickened gravy flavoured with lemon-juice. 49. Riblettes. Cut a few slices of uncooked mutton, and the same of pork, about the thickness of one finger ; beat the slices well with the back of a knife ; powder them with salt and pepper ; place the slices in a saucepan with chopped onion and powdered herbs between each slice ; throw over all enough stock to cover the whole. Let them simmer for two hours, adding more stock if necessary. At the end of two hours, thicken the gravy with two spoonsful of flour made smooth with a little cold water; simmer for another hour, and then serve. 50. Goose Giblet Stew. Place the giblets in a saucepan (all but the liver, which must only be added half an hour before serving), with sufficient good stock to cover them ; as soon as they boil, skim well, add pepper and salt, two small onions, one clove of garlic, two slices of lemon or orange, two cloves, and a thickening of flour; let these ingredients simmer for two hours, then add a slice of thick bread which has been fried in dripping or Australian marrow, and cut in small squares, and a pint of roast chesnuts freed from shell and skin. Stir well; let all simmer again for a quarter of an hour, and then serve. 51. Stew of Cold Roast Goose. Take the remains of a goose, and cut bones and all into small pieces ; into a pint of stock (or more, should there be much goose left) put two cloves, pepper and salt, a thickening of flour, two slices of lemon, and a pint of roast or boiled chesnuts, without shells or skin; as soon as it has boiled half an hour, put in the remains of the goose, and a slice of fried bread cut in small squares. Simmer for half an hour, and then serve. 52. Rabbit Mould. Joint a good-sized rabbit, and place it in a jar in tho oven, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg, a good pinch of gelatine, and sufficient stock to cover the whole ; let it stow until the bones drop from the meat ; pass the stock through a Bieve, lay the meat in a wetted mould (care being taken that allECONOMICAL COOKERY. 3° bones are removed), and fill up the mould with the stock. Make this one day, and turn it out the next. A knuckle of veal done as above, with the addition of two hard-boiled eggs, and a slice or two of cooked ham, is excellent. 53. Jugged Steak. Beat two pounds of steak with a rolling-pin ; place the meat in a jar in the oven, with enough stock thickened with flour to cover it; add an onion with the peel on, a few cloves, pepper, and salt to taste ; bake it for four or five hours. When you dish the steak, pour the gravy over it through a sieve. Note.—The skin of onions colours whatever moat it is placed with, the knowledge of which saves much trouble in all dishes where it is not necessary to slice your onions. 54. Brawn. Take a small pig’s-head, or half a large one with the tongue entire ; put this on to boil with a good handful of salt, until it is so tender that the bones drop from the meat; have ready some powdered spices, cloves, peppercorns, etc., mixed with a good handful of powdered herbs, including sage, but not parsley, and a seasoning of cayenne and black pepper ; free the flesh of the pig’s-head from the bones, and cut it up quickly, so as not to let the fat settle; as you cut it, powder it with the above ingredients ; skin the tongue (which must not boil all the time that the head does, as it is only required to be done through, and to remain firm). At the bottom of your brawn tin, or large mould, place a layer of the seasoned and chopped meat; on this lay the tongue, and cover it over with the remainder of the meat, etc. ; press the top with a weight, and turn out after it has been moulded twelve hours.VEGETABLES. 1. Portuguese Eice and Cabbage. Chop a large cabbage into small pieces (as you would do lettuces for salad), put this on to boil for a few minutes ; change the water twice. When the third water (which should not be more than the rice will take up) boils, add a teacupful of rice, some salt and pepper. When the rice is nearly done, stir in a good-sized piece of dripping. Note.—This is a favourite dinner with the peasants of Madeira, and with us is greatly esteemed eaten with any cold meat. 2. Milho, or Indian Corn finely ground. Mix one pound and six ounces of milho powder with three quarts of cold water ; stir slowly from time to time in the sauce- pan until it boils ; as soon as it boils quickly, throw in little by little half a pound more of raw milho, stirring all the while to prevent its being lumpy. When it is nearly done, throw in a piece of butter or dripping (not more than one ounce) and two teaspoonsful of salt. It must boil for at least half an hour after you put in the raw corn. Note.—This milho, or Indian corn, is easily procurable in England. Some people buy the whole corn, and have it ground at home, but that of course entails trouble. The ground corn bought in England is very good, not expensive, and extremely nourishing for breakfast, or in fact any meal. 3. Fried Indian Corn (Milho). Cut the remains of boiled milho (which becomes quite solid when cold) into small pieces, about three inches long ; fry them in dripping until both sides acquire a nice brown skin. Note.—This also is a delicious breakfast dish. 4. Indian Corn Fritters (Spanish Milho). About half a pound of Indian corn (or milho), a pint ofECONOMICAL COOKERY. 32 milk, two eggs, a little salt, and a piece of lard or butter ; warm the milk, and mix well with the Indian corn flour ; add the lard, and stir well. When almost cold, add two eggs, previously well beaten, and fry like pancakes. A spoonful of the batter is sufficient to make the cakes the right size. Heap them on a hot plate or dish, putting a little piece of butter between each. 5. Indian Corn Cake. One pound of Indian corn flour, four eggs, a bit of butter, half a pint of milk, salt to taste; mix well the Indian corn, milk, and butter, add the eggs well beaten, and the salt ; bake in a cake-tin for an hour and a half. If the mixture seem too thick, add more milk. Note.—This cake ought to be eaten hot, and is a fit breakfast “ to set before a king.” 0. Indian Corn and Cabbage. Boil the milho as directed in No. 2, adding to it from the commencement a large cabbage cut small and previously par- boiled in two or three waters. 7. Portuguese Rice. Brown some onions and tomatoes in dripping (two table- spoonsful of tomato sauce if the tomatoes are not procurable), add one cup of rice, a pint of stock, and some herbs. Let it boil for half an hour. Serve in a vegetable-dish, with grated cheese over the top. Macaroni done in the same manner is delicious, but takes longer to boil. Note.—This dish is a charming accompaniment to any sort of cold meat. 8. Stewed Lentils (Spanish). Boil one quart of lentils with salt and water (after letting them soak all night), drain them, and place them in a saucepan, add a piece of butter, a clove of garlic; or onion, some herbs and parsley chopped fine. Stir every now and then until the whole is well done. 9. Lentil Pudding. After soaking, boiling, and mashing a quart of lentils, addVEGETABLES. 33 some butter, salt, and pepper; tie in a floured cloth, and boil three hours. If any of this pudding remain, it is very nice cut into thick slices and fried in dripping for next day’s dinner. 10. Lentils Fricasseed. Have ready a dish of boiled lentils and onions (the onions having been sliced and boiled with the lentils), add salt and pepper, a bit of butter, and some thickened gravy. Simmer gently for half an hour, then serve. 11. Spanish Tomatoes. Cut some large tomatoes in half; take out the insides, and make a forcemeat of chopped ham, parsley, a little garlic or onion, some salt, and cayenne. Fill both halves of the tomatoes, and bind each one with a piece of tape. Bake in the oven, with a little lard or oil in the tin. 12. Spanish Baked Tomatoes. Choose some equal-sized smooth tomatoes; cut off the tops; put in some salt, black pepper, a little lard, and a few fine bread- crumbs. The inside of the tomato is not removed. They will take about half an hour to bake. 13. Tomato Puree. Boil some tomatoes ; when tender, pass them through a sieve ; boil them again in some stock, with butter, pepper, and salt. Let them simmer twenty minutes, then serve. 14. Boiled Chesnuts. Cut as many chesnuts as you require half-way down each side from the thin end ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water in which a large lump of salt has been placed ; let them boil twenty minutes ; drain them as you would potatoes, and serve in their skins. At table you eat butter and salt with them. Note.—This makes a most nourishing meal. In my house it frequently takes the place of pudding at dinner, and is par- ticularly appreciated by children. 15. Haricot Beans. Soak all night; boil in salt and water ; drain them well; place in a vegetable-dish, with a small piece of butter in the middle. 334 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. Cold beans are delicious eaten like salad with oil and vinegar; also mixed with sliced raw tomatoes. 16. Puree of Dried Beans (Haricot). Boil as above ; skin them, and mash, with a piece of butter, very little lemon-juice, pepper and salt. Place in a saucepan with a small quantity of stock just to make them thoroughly hot, then serve. 17. Boiled Haricot Beans. Plain boil a dish of beans, drain them, make some parsley butter, and stir the beans in it until very hot, then serve. 18. Mexican Frijoles. Boil a dish of beans until quite soft; drain them ; fry some onions and sage in a frying-pan, with pepper and salt; mix the beans with these ingredients, and serve very hot. Note.—Haricot beans are very nice curried, or boiled with tomatoes and onions ; and in any way they are very nutritious. 19. Stewed Celery. Cut the celery in pieces about three inches long; boil until quite tender. Make some melted butter; drain the celery into a dish, and pour the butter over it. 20. Fried Celery. Boil the celery entire until tender ; drain it; divide into small pieces, and fry in dripping until lightly browned. 21. Spinach. Wash the leaves very carefully ; place them in a saucepan without any water, and they will boil themselves. Take them from the saucepan, and let them drain until quite cold. Press and squeeze them quite dry ; chop them up small; add pepper, salt, and a good piece of butter. Place them in a buttered basin or shape, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 22. Fried Beetroot. Boil a beetroot, and when cold skin it and cut it up into thinVEGETABLES. 35 slices ; prepare an onion (raw) in slices ; fry both in a pan with some dripping and plenty of salt s>nd pepper. 23. Beetroot Puree. Boil a large beetroot; when cold, mash it very smooth ; add some butter, pepper, salt, and stock. Place in a buttered basin, and bake for an hour. A little minced onion which has been boiled is an improvement. 24. Stewed Beetroot. Make some thickened stock very hot on the fire ; add a small beetroot cut in slices, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and some pepper and salt. Let it boil for an hour or longer, until the beet is quite tender, but not smashed at all. 25. Ragout of Beetroot. Boil a good-sized beetroot; fry an onion in a pan, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of vinegar ; add the beet- root cut into small pieces, and about a cupful of milk ; thicken with a little flour-, and serve very hot. 26. Choux-Fleurs au Fromage. Boil a large cauliflower, and dip it in melted butter ; place it in a tin or dish, and sprinkle grated cheese thickly over it, also some fine bread-crumbs. Bake it in the oven until it assumes a nice brown. 27. Cauliflower a l’Espagnol. Boil a large cauliflower thoroughly, drain it, fry it in dripping with a clove of garlic, or an onion well minced, then serve. 28. Celeri a l’Espagnol. Boil some pieces of celery, about two inches long, in some good stock, add salt, pepper, and a little lemon-juice. Thicken the stock with flour, and serve. 29. Red Cabbage Boiled. Boil the red cabbage just as you would an ordinary cabbage ; send it to table with melted butter.ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 36 Note.—The red cabbage is extremely delicate in flavour, and deserves to be more generally used. 30. Flemish Red Cabbage. Cut one large or two small rod cabbages in fours ; boil them, with an onion cut up, two cloves, salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf, for two hours. Remove the pieces of cabbage, strain, place in a covered pan in the oven with a bit of butter until quite tender, then serve. 31. Fricassee of Red Cabbage. Stew a large red cabbage, until nearly done, in some stock, with pepper and salt : only just enough stock to keep it from burning. Drain it, cut the cabbage in thick slices, and fry with two onions cut in rings, and either two tomatoes or a table- spoonful of tomato sauce. 32. Boiled Pumpkin. Cut a small pumpkin, divested of its skin, into slices, removing the seeds, etc. Boil it until perfectly tender. Serve with melted butter; or when boiled mash it quite smoothly with some butter, pepper and salt, and serve; or when mashed, etc., place in a buttered basin, and bake it in the oven for an hour. 33. Vegetable-marrow a la Portugaise. Boil entire, with the skin on ; drain thoroughly ; serve entire. To be eaten with fresh butter, pepper and salt. 34. Stewed Vegetable-marrow. Cut up a large marrow into small pieces, skin it, and take away the seeds ; fry the pieces with an onion cut in rings, or a small clove of garlic. When nicely browned, put it in a saucepan with enough stock to cover it, and a few button mushrooms, salt and pepper. Let all simmer for an hour; thicken with flour, and serve. 35. Baked Vegetable-marrow. Boil a large marrow entire. When half done, remove it from the saucepan ; cut it longways in half ; remove the seeds and inner pulp. When cold, fill it with a little minced meat, chopped37 VEGETABLES. parsley, pepper, salt, an onion cut np small, and one or two tomatoes sliced, or tomato sauce ; fill each half of the marrow ; bind it with wide tape ; place it in a baking-tin in the oven; baste now and then with dripping. When quite tender, remove it from the oven, take off the tapes, and serve very hot. Note.—This dish, though I have placed it among the vege- tables, is more of an entree—very satisfying and delicious. 36. English Sorrel. Treat it exactly as you would spinach. It is delicious as a breakfast dish, with two or three poached eggs on the top. 37. French Puree of Sorrel. Boil the sorrel with some chopped mushrooms and onions ; drain, and warm up in some thickened stock, with pepper and salt; then serve. 38. Potato Rissoles. Boil and mash some potatoes, add to them finely chopped parsley and onion, salt and pepper. Make them up into balls, and fry. 39. Potato Cakes. Boil and mash some potatoes, add pepper and salt, make them into small flat cakes, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry a light brown. 40. Deviled Potatoes. Any remains of cold potatoes : mash them roughly, and add cayenne and black pepper, and salt. Knead them into a flat surface, fry each side until brown, then serve. 41. Stuffed Potatoes. Take six large raw potatoes; peel them, and scoop out a good deal of the inside ; fill them with minced meat, chopped parsley, a little butter, salt, pepper, and tomato sauce ; place them in a tin, and bake them until they are quite tender. What you take from the insides can be steamed, and then mashed with a little milk, and placed beside the baked potatoes in the shape of small round balls. UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDSECONOMICAL COOKERY. 38 42. Ragout of Cucumbers. Cut two largo cucumbers into nice-sizecl pieces, peel them, and fry them in dripping with an onion cut in rings. When all are browned, add some stock, pepper, and salt; thicken with flour, and serve very hot. 43. Mushroom Pudding. One quart of mushrooms peeled and broken up into small pieces, half a pound of minced ham or bacon or pickled pork, a boiled onion, a few herbs and parsley, and some pepper. Fill a buttered basin, and bake for three or four hours in a hot oven. 44. Stewed Mushrooms. Cut up some young mushrooms after they are peeled ; add a little lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, salt, butter, and milk. Simmer gently until quite done, then serve on toast. 45. Mushrooms a la Provencale. ) Fry some mushrooms in dripping, add salt, cayenne pepper, a clove of garlic, and some chopped parsley. When you serve, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. 46. Chantarelle Mushroom. This mushroom (found in most country places) is delicious eating, but requires to be very slowly cooked, or it will become leathery. Wash the chantarelles, then stew them gently with a little butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-peel, and a small quantity of stock. They will take about two hours to stew. 47. Eairy-ring Champignon. Wash carefully, and dry on a cloth, some of these delicious mushrooms ; stew with a few herbs and a clove of garlic in some stock ; thicken with flour, then serve. Note.—Through the summer months, few weeks pass without this delicious champignon being eaten at my table. Nearly every open field teems with them. We gather them (cut with scissors, not rooted up) in the evening for the following day. They are very good simply fried with bacon for breakfast, or added to a stew for dinner, or according to the above recipe for supper. They are easily dried and kept for winter use, and39 VEGETABLES. there is scarcely a dish to which, either fresh or dry, they do not impart a delicious flavour. 48. Giant Puff-ball Mushroom. As soon as you gather this delicious mushroom, peel and cut it in slices about half an inch thick; it should be perfectly white inside. (If, when it is cut, there are any yellow marks or staii^> visible, it should not be used.) The slices are put on to fry seasoned with salt and pepper; when nicely brown on both sides they are done. The slices can also be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, or sprinkled with sweet herbs and pepper, and a little garlic. Fry in oil, dripping, or butter. Note.—The finding of this delicious prize is quite an excite- ment in our small establishment. During an evening ramble, if one is discovered, we take it joyfully home, furnished with a complete and satisfying supper at a very trifling cost. To any one wishing to study the subject of fungi, I would recommend “ British Fungi,” by M. 0. Cooke. 49. Arroz com Castanhas (Madeira Chesnuts and Eice). Brown some onions and tomatoes, and add stock according to the quantity of rice you wish to cook ; scrape all the skin oft 3ome chesnuts after the shell has been removed, then put equal parts of chesnuts and rice to the stock, also a little common thyme and knotted marjoram, with pepper and salt to taste; stir and simmer until the stock is quite absorbed and the chesnuts soft. \ 50. Poached Eggs with Tomatoes. Slice a quantity of tomatoes—about two pounds ; take out the seeds, and cut the tomatoes up small, and fry in dripping with a small taste of onion; when well done, spread on a hot dish. Poach four fresh eggs, and place them on the tomatoes. Note.—This is an excellent breakfast dish. 51. Asparagus Omelet. Make an omelet the usual way, adding a little finely chopped onion and some cold boiled asparagus. 52. “ Forced ” Onions. Take some large Spanish onions, cut off the tops neatly after40 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. peeling them, scoop out the centre (but not too far in) and fill with forcemeat of any sort, or little bits of chicken or game flavoured with tomato sauce, sew on the tops, and simmer in some good stock thickened with flour. Simmer (very gently, or the onions will shrink,) for about three hours. 53. Mandram. Two cucumbers, two large onions, two red peppers : chop all up together into very small pieces, add a little salt, and let the cucumber, etc., drain for about an hour ; add some vinegar and oil. To be eaten with fish or cold meat. 54. Tomato Salad. Slice ripe tomatoes, Spanish onions, and a small cucumber ; sprinkle with salt and black pepper, and add oil and vinegar.41 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 1. Abobra Doce (Sweet Pumpkin). ' Cut a pumpkin in pieces, remove the skin and all the inside pips, etc., boil the pieces of pumpkin in water until quite tender (but not smashed at all), strain the pumpkin, and throw away the water it was boiled in ; before boiling the pumpkin, weigh it, and to every pound allow one pound of loaf-sugar ; after the pumpkin is boiled, make a syrup of the sugar—rather less than half a pint of water to one pound of sugar. When the syrup has boded up well, pour it over the pieces of pumpkin, which must be placed in an earthen jar. Every day the pumpkin pieces must be carefully lifted out and placed on a dish, while the syrup is put on the fire and boded up ; carefudy replace the pumpkin into the jar and pour the boding syrup over it; repeat this every day for seven days ; on the eighth day place the pieces of pumpkin as wed as the syrup in the preserving-pan, and let both bod up, then remove the pan from the fire, take out the pieces of pumpkin, and when nearly cold wash each piece in cold water, then arrange them on drainers for a few minutes, afterwards place them on a wooden tray (the paste-board does very wed), and put them down inside the kitchen fender, where they can candy and dry quickly. The syrup can be used for other sweets, and wid keep in bottles for some time. When the pumpkin is candied on both sides, it can be put away with layers of paper between in a box. This is a dedcious dessert dish, very inexpensive, and only requiring moderate care in the preparation. 2. Coffee Jelly. Make a teacupful of coffee as strong as possible, dissolve in it a one-ounce packet of Nelson’s opaque gelatine, put one pint of mdk on the fire and a quarter of a pound of soft sugar ; when nearly boding, stir in the coffee and gelatine ; let ad boil together for ten minutes; take off the fire, stir in one teaspoonful of essenceECONOMICAL COOKERY. 42 of vanille, and place the jelly in a mould. Make the day before it is wanted. 3. Chocolate Jelly. Dissolve an ounce packet of Nelson’s opaque gelatine in half a pint of milk ; let it stand a few hours ; take two ounces of grated chocolate and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and mix into a smooth paste with some milk ; place the gelatine with another half-pint of milk on the fire, and when nearly boiling add the chocolate and sugar ; let all boil together, stirring one way all the time for ten minutes ; take off the pan, add a teaspoonful of essence of vanille, and put the mixture into a mould. Make this the day before it is wanted. 4. Orange Jelly. One ounce of Nelson’s gelatine dissolved overnight in half a pint of cold water : place it in a saucepan with some lemon-peel cut thin and half a pound of loaf-sugar, and another half-pint of water ; let it boil for ten minutes ; strain half a pint of orange- juice (rather more), and the juice of one lemon (the juice is not to go to the fire at all), add to the fruit-juice the gelatine, etc., stir well for a few minutes, then place in a mould until next day. Note.—It takes about twelve oranges for a pint of juice : the more sour they are the better. This is a most economical and delicious recipe. 5. Lemon Jelly. Proceed as above, adding rather more sugar, half a pint more water, and all the peel off two lemons. Squeeze the juice of the two lemons (or three if they be small), add it to the boiled ingredients, which must be strained through a sieve ; place in a mould to turn out next day. Note.—Tins is a most simple and cheap dish, and always a favourite. 6. Lemon Sponge. Dissolve a one-ounce packet of Nelson’s gelatine into a pint and a half of water ; let it stand some hours ; then put it on to boil with the rind of two lemons, the juice of three, and three- quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; boil altogether for ten minutes, then put it in a basin till it is nearly set; whisk the whites of two eggs into a stiff froth, add it to the set lemon, and beat itPUDDINGS AND SIVEET DISHES. 43 until it looks like sponge ; wet a mould, and place in the mixture for the following day. 7. Blackberry Jelly (see also p. 49). Dissolve one packet of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of water for several hours; boil a quart of blackberries with half a pound of sugar and a bit of lemon-peel; strain through a sieve; add the blackberry-juice to the gelatine and water ; put in a saucepan, and boil for ten minutes ; strain it, and place in a mould. Note.—The juice of almost any fruit in the above proportions can be made into elegant jellies at a very small cost. 8. Quickly-made Jelly. Soak a packet of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of cold water for ten minutes ; add half a pint of boiling water, stir until the gelatine is dissolved; add two wine-glasses of raisin or ginger wine, half a pound of sugar, and some lemon-peel; boil all together for five minutes ; take it off the fire, stir in a few drops of cochineal to make it a pretty colour, then pour into a wetted mould. 9. Sago Shape. Boil a small cup of sago in a pint of milk, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and some cinnamon to flavour, and half a pint more milk in which half an ounce of gelatine has been dissolved. Let all boil for ten minutes; take out the cinnamon, and pour the rest into a mquld for the following day. 10. Rice Shape. Boil a cupful of rice in a quart of milk, adding sugar to taste, lemon-rind, and a small pinch of salt, until the mixture is suffi- ciently thick. Place in a mould, and turn out next day. 11. Chesnut Shape. Peel the chesnuts from their shells (about one quart), then throw them into boiling water for a few minutes to rid them of all inner skin ; when quite freed, make a syrup with a pound of sugar, a pint of water, and some lemon-juice, and boil the chesnuts in the syrup until they mash. Pass all through a sieve, place in a mould, and turn out next day.ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 44 12. Sweet Chesnuts. Proceed as in the above recipe, but do not allow the chesnuts to mash. When they are tender, take them out carefully, leave the syrup to thicken, and then place the chesnuts in it again for a minute or two. Take the pan off the fire, and arrange the chesnuts on a dish, pouring the syrup (which can be flavoured with essence of vanille) over them. 13. Chesnut Cream. Peel and skin the chesnuts ; boil them in milk until they mash ; pass through a sieve. To one pound of mashed chesnuts add one pint of milk and a quarter of a pound of sugar ; mix all together on the fire until the mixture boils, then add the yolks of two eggs beaten with a little milk ; give a good stir, but do not let it boil for more than a minute, or the eggs will curdle. Take it off the fire, add a teaspoonful of essence of vanille, and stir until the mixture is nearly cold. Place in a glass dish. 14. Apple Shape. Boil some sour apples with a little water until they mash ; pass them through a sieve ; add sugar to sweeten. Have ready an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine, dissolved overnight in cold water ; add this to the apple pulp, and the juice of one lemon. Place all on the fire ; let it boil ten minutes, stirring all the time. Place in a wetted mould, and turn out next day. 15. Apple Fool. Boil some apples as above ; when mashed, add sugar to taste, the juice of one lemon, and place in a deep glass dish. Beat half a pint of cream, and pour it over the apples. If cream be not obtainable, milk will do ; mix it with the apple, beat it up to make it look frothy, and place in a glass dish. 16. Apple Snow. Bake four large apples ; when they are cold, pass them through a sieve ; add sugar and lemon-juice to taste. Beat up the whites of two eggs into a stiff froth, add the eggs to the apple, etc., and beat until the whole mixture becomes white and thick. Place lightly in a glass dish.45 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 17. Apples and Bread-crumbs. Peel and slice some good baking apples, place them in a pie- dish with sugar, lemon-juice, and a very little butter and water ; on the top of the apples sift some bread-crumbs thickly, and put a few dabs of butter on the crumbs. Bake for an hour in a brisk oven. 18. Charlotte aux Pommes. Butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom and sides of it with thin slices of buttered bread, place some slices of apple on the bread, with some sugar and lemon-juice ; proceed with these layers until the dish is full; bake in a quick oven until the apple is quite tender. Turn on to a dish, sift some sugar over, and serve. 19. Custard Apple Charlotte. Place in a buttered pie-dish some slices of apple ; add sugar and lemon-juice ; fill nearly full, and bake until tender ; beat two eggs into a pint of milk, and sweeten to taste. Pour over the apples in the pie-dish, and bake until the custard is quite set. Serve in the pie-dish. 20. Apple Meringue. Proceed as above. Beat the whites only of two eggs into a stiff froth, -with two ounces of finely sifted lump-sugar ; place the apples in the oven with the froth over them ; watch care- fully. As soon as the froth begins to assume a little colour, take from the oven, and serve directly. 21. Apple and Almond Charlotte. Butter a pie-dish, sprinkle it with sugar and sweet-almonds cut in pieces ; cover these with slices of bread moistened in milk, fill up with apples sliced, adding sugar and a few more almonds cut small, and over all another slice of bread moistened with milk. If eaten hot, this must be served in the pie-dish ; if to eat cold, it can be turned out when it has been out of the oven an hour. 22. Pommes au Riz. Boil some apples until quite tender, also some rice in a separate saucepan. When both are cold, butter a pie-dish, and spread some rice at the bottom, then a layer of apples sprinkled46 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. with sugar and moistened with lemon-juice. Fill the pie-dish with these layers, rice being at the top ; place a few dabs of butter on the rice, and bake until it begins to brown. This is delicious eaten either hot or cold. 23. Orange Marmalade Pudding. A quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two tablespoonsful of orange marmalade, two eggs well beaten : mix all these ingredients together, put them into a basin or mould, and boil five hours. To be served with lemon sauce. 24. Compote of Sweet Oranges. Weigh some oranges, and take an equal quantity of sugar; boil the oranges entire in three or four waters, until they are so tender that you can pierce the skin easily with the head of a pin ; take them out, and place them in cold water ; when they are quite cold, cut each orange into six or eight sections, taking out the pips. Place the sugar in a little of the last water in which the oranges were boiled, and reduce it to syrup ; then put the slices in the syrup for a few minutes to glaze them ; take them out, arrange them on a dish, and pour the syrup over them. 25. Orange Pie. Take the skin off some oranges, removing the inner skin as well; divide them carefully into sections, take out the pips, and arrange them in a pie-dish with plenty of sugar and the juice of one lemon. Make a good crust, and bake for half an hour in a brisk oven. Note.—When economy is studied, pastry should never be made with butter or lard ; if dripping is not sufficient, Australian marrow, sold in tins, makes excellent pastry, and will keep good after it is opened any time. It is always well to be pro- vided with tins of this marrow, as in a small family there is not always a sufficiency of dripping ; and, besides, pastry made with the marrow is nicer to eat cold than dripping crust. 26. Lemon Cream. One quart of cream (milk can be substituted for economy) to to be boiled gently with one ounce of Nelson’s gelatine pre- viously soaked in a little of the milk or cream ; sugar to taste;47 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. add the grated peel of one lemon and the juice of two. Boil for ten minutes. Pour into a mould for next day. 27. Orange Cream. One pint of cream (or milk) boiled gently with one ounce of gelatine, and sugar to taste ; add lemon-peel, and boil for ten minutes. Have ready half a pint of orange-juice, and the juice of one small lemon; add the boiled milk, etc., passed through a strainer ; stir well for a few minutes, then place in a mould for the following day. 28. Cocoanut Paste. Make some pastry ; grate the flesh of a good-sized cocoanut add sugar to taste, and a few drops of vanille essence. Line a tartlet tin with pastry; put the cocoanut mixture into it, and bake until it begins to colour, and the pastry is done. » 29. Chocolate Custard. Two ounces of grated chocolate, one pint of milk, sugar to taste, the yolks of two eggs, a few drops of essence of vanille : put some of the milk into a saucepan, beat up two yolks of eggs, add by degrees into the eggs the powdered chocolate and the sugar, and the remainder of the milk. When the milk in the saucepan is nearly boiling, stir in the chocolate, etc. ; let it just come to the boiling-point, take it off, and keep stirring until nearly cold. Pour into custard-cups, and serve. 30. Arroz Doce (Sweet Rice). Boil half a teacupful of rice in a quart of milk for an hour and a half; while on the fire sweeten to taste, and add a table- spoonful of rose-water. About five minutes before you take it off the fire, stir in two eggs well beaten. Place the rice in a glass dish, and when cold sift some powdered cinnamon over the top. 31. Fried Rice. Boil a cupful of rice in a quart of milk^with a little pinch of salt; let it thicken well. Flour a paste-board, and place the boiled rice on it, roll it about an inch thick, sprinkle it with flour, and leave it until quite cold, then cut it into little square cakes, fry them in butter, and when they are done place them48 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. on a dish with a good sprinkling of sugar and sifted cinnamon over each one. 32. Golden Toast. Cut some slices of bread, not very thick ; take off the crusts, and soak the bread in milk flavoured with essence of vanille, almond, or lemon ; beat up an egg, and dip each slice of bread into it; fry the pieces of a pretty golden colour. When Berved, sift powdered loaf-sugar over. 33. Rice Cream. Take a large heaped tablespoonful of ground rice, and rub smooth with a little cold milk ; put a pint of milk in a sauce- pan ; sweeten and flavour ; when the milk is hot, add the ground rice, and stir well until it boils. Serve cold. bl ote.—This is a delicious accompaniment to any stewed fruit, especially rhubarb. It can either be poured over the fruit, or served alone in a glass dish. 34. Spanish Crema. Cut six or seven stale sponge-cakes in half, arrange them in a deep glass dish, and pour a little milk on each one to soak it; put nearly a pint of milk on the fire, and boil; in a basin place a tablespoonful of Osweigo flour and some sugar ; make it into a paste with the remainder of the pint of milk, and add to it one egg ; stir and beat well. When the milk on the fire is nearly boiling, stir in the Osweigo and egg until it thickens ; take it oif the fire and stir for a little while ; stick the soaked sponge-cakes with blanched almonds, and place amongst them any sort of jam you prefer. Pour the custard over all, sift with powdered cinnamon, and serve when cold. 35. Italian Sponge. Dissolve one ounce of gelatine into a pint of milk ; put it in a saucepan on the fire until it nearly boils. Stir a quarter of a pound of sugar into the yolks of four eggs, and having beaten it well, stir it into the saucepan with the milk, etc., until it thickens. Put it by until it begins to set. Beat the whites of the four eggs into a stiff froth ; add to the nearly set milk, etc., with a teaspoonful of essence of vanille ; beat for a few minutes, then pour into a wetted mould for the next day.PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 49 36. Creme de Chamouni. One ounce of gelatine, half a pint of boiling water, one glass of raisin wine, juice and rind of two lemons, and three-quarters of a pint of milk ; pour the boiling water upon the lemon rind, sugar, and gelatine ; boil for ten minutes, strain, add the other ingredients, and pour into a mould. 37. Meringues. A quarter of a pound of finely powdered sugar (loaf), and the whites of three eggs : whip the egg whites to a stiff froth; add the sugar quickly and lightly as you are beating the eggs. Have ready some tins, lined with buttered papers ; take a spoonful of the egg and sugar, and drop it on to the paper, not allowing the froths to touch one another ; bake in a slack oven, watching carefully. As soon as the outsides begin to acquire colour, turn them on the other side, scoop out a little of the egg, and when they are slightly brown on both sides take them from the oven, and leave them to harden ; then take them off the tins, make a whip of cream, fill one side of a meringue, attach another one to it, and fill a glass dish with them. Note.—These delicious sweets are very inexpensive to make, but require a good deal of experience. 38. My Plum Pudding. One pound of flour, one pound of bread-crumbs, two ounces of mixed spice, one pound of suet, one pound of candied peel, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, half a pound of blanched almonds slightly bruised, six dried walnuts peeled and divided in half: mix the ingredients well together ; wet with rather more than a pint of milk. Boil ten hours. Note.—The absence of brandy and eggs makes this recipe much more economical than ordinary plum puddings. Experi- ence proves to me that both are quite unnecessary, and 1 can confidently recommend the above. 39. Potato Pudding. Rub eight ounces of potatoes quite smooth ; add two ounces of butter, the grated rind and the juice of one lemon, sugar to ta-ste, two eggs well beaten, and a teacupful of milk. Bake in a dish, with pastry round the edge, for half an hour. 45° E CO NO MIC A L CO ONER V. 40. Bread Pudding. Soak any pieces of stale bread in half a pint of milk ; add half a teacupful of currants, moist sugar to taste, the grated rind of one lemon, or a teaspoonful of essence of vanille, and two eggs. Beat all well together, and bake for twenty minutes in well-buttered teacups (not tins) three parts full. Very nice either hot or cold. To be turned out of the cups before serving. t 41. Lemon Rice Pudding. Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of milk ; add three ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, the peel of a lemon grated and the juice of half, and the yolks of two eggs. Place in a pie-dish, and bake in the oven. Break up the whites of the two eggs, and just before you take the rice from the oven spread the froth on the top. This is to be eaten cold. 42. Oswego Shape. To one pint of milk use two tablespoonsful of Oswego ; dis- solve the hour, and put it into the rest of the milk (when nearly boiling) ; add sugar to taste, and flavour with cinnamon, essence of vanille, or lemon-peel. Pour into a wetted mould, for the following day. 43. Oswego Surprise. Proceed as above : have ready some stewed fruit (any kind) or jam ; pour nearly half the Oswego, boiled and flavoured, into a wetted mould ; when that quantity is nearly cold, put in tli9 stewed fruit or jam, and on that the rest of the Oswego. When it turns out it looks like an ordinary white shape, and not until it is cut can the jam or fruit be discovered. 44. Toicinho-do Ceo (“ Heavenly Bacon ”). Beat the yolks of twelve eggs until they are quite thick, grease four small basins, half fill them with the beaten eggs, place the basins in a preserving-pan of hot water, and put a cloth over to keep in the steam. When they have boiled a little while, try the eggs with a very pointed wedge of wood to see if they are done, which you ascertain by the contents not sticking to the wedge. Turn the egg-mixture out of the basins, and cut them in slices. Make a strong syrup of a pint of water and one pound of sugar; when this boils, put in the slices of egg, and5i PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. let tnem just boil up ; put the slices in a basin, and pour the syrup over. When you serve, sift powdered cinnamon on the top. To be eaten cold. Note.—This is a Portuguese dish, and extremely nice. 45. Victoria Sandwiches. Weigh two eggs, and take the same weight of sugar, butter, and flour ; beat the eggs, and add them to the other ingredients, mixing thoroughly; grease a pudding-tin, put in the mixture, and bake twenty minutes. When cold, slice the mixture in half, spread it with jam, put the top on again, cut it into pieces about two inches long, and place on a glass dish. 46. Economical Mincemeat. Half a pound of apples, half a pound of lemons, half a pound of suet, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of citron, two teaspoonsful of mixed spice, two teaspoonsful of ground ginger, a pinch of salt, two wineglassfuls of brandy : grate all the skin of two lemons, add it to the remainder of the ingredients (not including brandy), pass all the things through a mincing-machine two or three times, stir in the lemon-juice and brandy, and put away in pots for future use. 47. Lemon Cheesecakes. Grate the rind of two lemons, add to it the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar (moist), and the juice of the two lemons ; place all these things, when well mixed, into a saucepan, and keep stirring one way until the mixture thickens. This will keep for months. Make some pastry, line some pattypans, and bake; when the pastry is nearly done, put in the lemon-cheese, and serve very hot. 48. Small Cocoanut Puddings. Dissolve two ounces of butter, add to it two ounces of grated cocoanut, four ounces of moist sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and two eggs : beat this mixture well together, then add the strained juice of the half-lemon, and place the mixture in buttered pattypans or cups, and bake for half an hour. 49. Large Cocoanut Pudding. Grate a quarter of a pound of fine bread-crumbs, and soakS3 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. them in half a pint of milk; beat up three eggs, and add to them two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and one tablespoonful of Osweigo just wetted with a little of the milk ; add the eggs, etc., to the bread-crumbs ai.d milk, and lastly a grated cocoanut. Beat the mixture hard for one minute, put it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. Note.-—In this, as in all puddings, it is best to beat the yolks and the whites of eggs separately. 50. Snow Pancakes. Take half a pound of flour, and add to it gradually one pint of milk, theii mix in quickly three large spoonsful of clean snow ; melt the lard or dripping in the pan, and put in two tablespoonsful of the mixture ; turn when done on the under side, and brown the upper ; roll up, and place on a hot plate in the oven until all are done. Serve very hot, with sugar sifted over, and a cut lemon or orange on another plate. 51. Curds. Half a pint of sour cream, two pints of milk, two eggs well beaten : put the milk on to boil, then add the eggs and cream ; put into a strainer, and when nearly cold into a mould for the next day. To be eaten with sugar. 52. Alexandra Pudding. Two eggs, their weight in flour, sugar, and butter, two table- spoonsful of raspberry jam, and an eggspoonful of soda : beat up all well together, steam for two hours, and serve. 53. Baked Ground-Rice Pudding. Boil two ounces of rice in half a pint of milk ; then add two ounces of butter, three ounces of moist sugar, the peel of half a lemon, the yolks of two eggs, and when cold the juice of half a lemon and the whites of the two eggs beaten to a froth. Stir lightly, and bake in a moderate oven about an hour. 54. Sonhos (Madeira “ Dreams ”)• Pour a breakfast-cupful of boiling water on to the same quantity of flour, beat this in a basin until the paste is smooth ;PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 53 then add a little silt and three eggs, which must not have been previously beaten ; stir this batter until quite smooth. Put in a preserving-pan, or very clean saucepan, three-quarters of a pound of dripping ; when it boils, drop in a dessertspoonful of batter at a time : the batter ought to rise and float in the lard like a ball. As soon as the “ Sonhos ” are a pretty golden colour they are done, so take them out and drain them. Make a syrup of half a pound of loaf sugar to a pint of water ; place the “ Sonhos ” in a basin, and pour the syrup, boiling, over them. To be eaten the following day, cold. 55. Lagrimas (Madeira “ Tears ”). To a pound and a half of loaf sugar allow the yolks of twelve eggs and a teacupful and a half of water; place the sugar and water in a preserving-pan, and as soon as it boils fill a very tiny funnel with the beaten yolks ; hold the funnel over the syrup, and move it round and round so as to form a thread (about the size of vermicelli); every time the funnel is emptied take the pan off the fire, and with two little sharp-pointed wooden skewers move the egg about in the sugar until it assumes the shape of a large tear (that is, wide at one end and narrow at the other, and each tear must be about two inches long) ; when the egg in the funnel is finished, add a little more water to the syrup, and as soon as it boils on the fire again repeat the process with the funnel until all the egg is done. Return the syrup once more to the fire to thicken ; when it is ready, take the pan off the fire and stir the syrup with a wooden spoon. Then take each tear and stick it -with a wooden skewer, dip it in the thick syrup, and hang it up to drain and dry. To be eaten when the tears are candied, and with no syrup over them. Will keep for weeks. Note.—This is a very troublesome sweet to make, and by no means economical, as the above quantities will only make a few “ Ligrimas but they are so delicious, and make such a charming variety to the usual English sweets, that I could not resist giving the recipe. 56. Queijadas (Madeira). Mix one pint of goats’ milk with the yolks of eight eggs ; add sugar, pounded cinnamon, and almond paste ; make some large tartlets, and put the mixture in, doubling the corners of the paste over. Rake for half an hour in a good oven.54 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 57. Pineapple Shape. Dissolve one packet of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of milk, overnight; next day put it on to boil, with a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar and another half-pint of milk ; let all boil for ten minutes; put in a basin, and when cold, and beginning to set, stir in a few pieces of fresh (or tinned) pineapple ; place in a mould, and turn out on the following day. 58. Cocoanut Blamanche Soak a one-ounce packet of Nelson’s gelatine in one pint o milk, either overnight or for four hours ; then put it into a saucepan with six ounces of soft sugar, and stir until it boils ; remove it from the fire, and let it cool; grate the flesh of a small cocoanut or half of a large one, add to it the milk of the nut if there be any, and stir into it one pint of fresh milk and essence of vanille to taste; add this to the boiled milk and gelatine, etc. ; stir well for a few minutes, and then pour into a wetted mould. A few drops of cochineal are an improvement to the appearance. 59. Citric Jelly. Soak one ounce of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of cold water, overnight; next day place the soaked gelatine in a saucepan, with three-quarters of a pound (barely) of loaf-sugar, and half the rind of a lemon cut thin ; dissolve a threepenny packet of Nelson’s citric acid in a pint and a half of hot water, add this to the ingredients in the saucepan, and stir now and then until it boils ; allow all to boil for five minutes, remove from the fire, add twelve drops of essence of lemon, and pass through a strainer into a wetted mould. Make this one day for use on the next. Note.—I am aware that this recipe is not a new one ; it has, however, only lately come under my notice, and I find it is .so very pleasant to the taste, so easy to make, and so economical, that I cannot resist giving it a place in my little book. The original recipe recommends half a pint of wine in place of the same quantity of water, but not only does this add to the expense without to my mind improving the taste, but in my opinion wine and spirits should never be used in cooldng except when it would not be possible to keep food (such as mincemeat) without a small proportion of one or the other.55 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 60. Cranberry Jelly. One pint of cranberry juice, to be added to one ounce of Nelson’s gelatine, which must have soaked all night in one pint of water ; stir on the lire with half a pound of loaf-sugar and the juice of half a lemon; boil five minutes, and remove from the fire; beat well the whites of two eggs into a thick froth, and when the jelly begins to settle add the whites to it, beating the whole mixture until it becomes spongy; if not a good colour, add a few drops of cochineal; pour into a wetted mould. Make this one day for the next. 61. Coffee Jelly (another way). Soak an ounce and a half of Nelson’s gelatine in one pint of cold milk, (overnight in the winter ; two hours before being used in the summer) ; in the morning place three ounces of best coffee in a cafetiere, and pour on it one pint of boiling milk ; when it has all run through, place it in a saucepan with the gelatine and cold milk, nearly half a pound of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of two beaten eggs ; stir until it comes to boiling- point, but do not allow it actually to boil, or the eggs will curdle; remove it from the fire, and stir gently for several minutes; pour into a wetted mould. Make this the day before it is wanted. N.B. This and the preceding jelly made at the same time would be convenient, as one requires the yolks and the other the whites of two eggs. 62. Bread Pudding. Two thick rounds of stale bread soaked in one pint of boiled milk ; beat smooth, and add a quarter of a pound of raisins or currants, sugar to taste, a little nutmeg, candied peel, a pinch of salt, and one well-beaten egg. Boil for an hour and a half in a buttered basin. 63. Pig Pudding. Half a pound of figs chopped fine, half a pound of bread- crumbs, half a pound of suet, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, the rind of two lemons (minced) and the juice of one, and two eggs well beaten ; mix all well together, and boil three hours in a buttered basin. 64. Wycombe Pudding. Fill a greased pudding-basin with slices of bread, each slice56 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. spread ratlier thick with raspberry or gooseberry jam ; make a custard by dissolving a tablespoonful of Oswego flour into a pint of milk, and one egg well beaten; pour this over the bread and jam, let it stand an hour, then boil for an hour in a floured cloth. To be eaten either hot or cold : in any case turn it out of the basin. 65. Marmalade Pudding. Proceed as above, only substituting orange marmalade for the jam, and omitting the Oswego flour in the custard. Three- quarters of an hour is sufficient time to boii this pudding ; and if it be eaten hot, allow it to settle for a minute before turning 'it out. • 66. Six-Cup Pudding. One cup of preserve, one of sugar, one of flour, one of bread- crumbs, one of suet chopped fine, one of raisins, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a small quantity of warm milk; mix all together adding the soda last. Boil four hours. 67. Winstay Pudding. Six ounces of suet, six ounces of grated bread, six ounces of moist sugar, two spoonsful of orange marmalade : mix together with two eggs well beaten, and let it stand all night; butter a mould, place in it these ingredients, and boil four hours. 68. Sauce Pudding. Two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, three ounces of sugar, half apint of milk, and two eggs : work the flour and butter together, beat the eggs, and add them and the milk and sugar to the rest. Bake in four saucers for fifteen minutes, or longer, according to the heat of the oven ; and when served lay the puddings one on top of the other, with a layer of any kind of jam between. \ 69. Treacle Pudding. i. Half a pound of suet, half a pound of flour, half a pound of currants : mix slowly half a pound of treacle with the above ingredients ; beat up an egg with half a breakfast-cupful of milk, and add it to the rest. Boil four hours.57 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. ii. Make a suet crust, and with it line a pudding-basin ; on the crust put a little treacle and a pinch of powdered ginger, then a layer of crust, then one of treacle and ginger, and so proceed until the basin is full, taking care that a crust of suet covers the whole. Tie in a floured cloth, and boil four hours. 70. Baked Apple Pudding. Butter a pudding-basin, and sprinkle it thickly with moist sugar ; over this place a suet crust all over the basin ; fill it with slices of apple, and sugar to taste, add a pinch of salt, and the juice and rind of one lemon. Cover the top with crust, and bake in a quick oven for two hours. 71. Padre Cura Padding. Two eggs, and their weight in flour, sugar, butter, and orange marmalade ; beat up well the yolks of the two eggs, and mix ; then add the whites well beaten to a froth, put the mixture into a basin or mould, and boil four hours. 72. Queen of Puddings. Three ounces of bread-crumbs, six ounces of sugar, one pint of cold milk, one ounce of melted butter, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, and the yolks of two eggs well beaten ; mix these ingredients, put them into a pie-dish only three- parts full, and bake one hour. When nearly cold, spread a layer of jam on the top ; whisk the whites of the two eggs to a very stiff froth, then add two ounces of powdered sugar, and lastly the juice of one lemon ; pour over the top of the jam, and slightly brown in a cool oven. To be eaten cold. 73. Thetford Pudding. One pound of good cooking apples pared and quartered, half a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar; flavour with lemon-peel. Strew in the bottom of a pie-dish some suet first, then apples, sugar, bread, and suet again alternately, until the dish is full. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. No eggs or milk to be used in this pudding. To be turned out when sent to table.ECONOMICAL COOKERY. S8 74. Date Pudding. One pound of dates, stoned, (the mashed ones are best for this pudding, and are always cheaper than the others,) half a pound of suet, half a pound of bread-crumbs, one tablespoonful of sugar, two eggs, and one cup of milk : chop the suet and dates very finely, adding some powdered cinnamon and the other ingredients; place in a buttered basin, tie in a cloth, and boil for three hours. 75. Plain Cabinet Pudding. Butter a shape or pudding-basin, stick it all over with stoned raisins, then butter some slices of baker’s bread without the crusts, and place them in layers in the basin or shape ; beat one egg, and add to it a pint of milk sweetened to taste ; throw tins carefully over the bread in the basin ; leave it to soak for an hour, then tie it in a cloth, and boil one hour. Can be eaten hot or cold ; in any case turn it out of the basin or shape. 76. Jenny Lind Pudding. Two cups of flour, one of white sugar, one of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in the milk. Add two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, and a little grated lemon peel. Bake in a shape for half an hour, and serve with sauce. 77. Rice Pudding. Half a pound of rice, half a pound of suet, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Chop the suet very fine, and boil it and the other ingredients in a pint of milk until quite tender. Butter a mould or basin, stick it with raisins and a slice or two of citron, pour in the rice, etc., and boil for half an hour. Turn it out of the mould or basin, and serve hot. 78. Crumply Pudding. A quart of milk, four tablespoonsful of flour, two eggs, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and a little finely chopped suet. Grease a mould, stick it with raisins, orange and lemon peel, and citron. Make the flour into a smooth paste with the milk, and add the sugar. Pour this into the mould, and on the top place sufficient chopped suet to cover it. Bake in the oven until the suet looks brown and set. Turn out of the mould and serve very hot.59 MISCELLANEOUS. 1. Seville Orange Marmalade. Boil fifty oranges entire; change the water they boil in at least three times, to prevent their being too bitter. When they are so tender that a pin’s-head will go through the skin easily, they are done. Take them off one by one, and drain them : be careful that they do not break. As soon as they are nearly cold, weigh them, and to every pound of fruit allow a pound and a half of loaf sugar; then cut the oranges into quarters ; put the pulp on one side, and commence cutting the skins into thin strips with a sharp knife ; this done, remove all the pips, add the pulp and juice to the cut skins, and allow half a pint of water to every pound of fruit; place all on the fire, allowing it to boil until the marmalade becomes clear; place a little on a plate, and if it jellies it is done. There is no need to skim the marmalade, as that wastes it; stir well with a wooden spoon, and especially just before you take it off the fire, and there will be no need for skimming. Place in jars ; when cold, make some paste ; cut papers larger round than the pots ; wet the edges with paste, and place over the jars to exclude the air. This marmalade, which is much more economical than most recipes, will keep good equally long as those which recommend a larger quantity of 3ugar. Note.—It will be found advisable to boil and cut up the oranges one day, and finish making the marmalade the next, as they take a great many hours to become tender, and preparing them afterwards is also a long operation. 2. Blackberry Jelly. To one pound of blackberries allow half a pound of lump sugar; put the blackberries in a jar in the oven, and allow them to bake for some hours ; strain them through coarse muslin; add the sugar to the juice of the blackberries, and also the juice of one lemon ; boil all together ; stir well. Try a6o ECONOMICAL COOKERY. little on a plate, and if it jellies it is done. Place in small pots, and put pasted paper over. 3. Victoria Plum Preserve. Choose the finest plums, quite sound, and leave their stalks on ; weigh them, and take an equal quantity of sugar ; prick each plum in six or eight places with a new needle ; put them on the fire until they boil, with the sugar and a pint of water to every pound of fruit. Having boiled, remove them from the fire, place them in a basin in a cool place, and leave them for twenty-four hours. Boil them again for about half an hour, stirring very carefully, so as not to break the fruit. Place them in pots, and cover with papers wetted round the edge with paste. 4. Quince Marmalade. Pare, core, and quarter the quinces ; boil them in water till they begin to soften, but do not cover them with the water, as that will make them too high-coloured. Beat them in a mortar to a pulp, and allow to every pound of the pulp three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar ; boil them together pretty fast, until the marmalade will stiffen, then put into pots. 5. Caroco Jam (Quince-core—Portuguese). In making quince marmalade, save all the skins and cores containing the seeds ; weigh these, and to every pound of them allow one pound of apples. Peel and core the apples, and put them into the preserving-pan with the quince cores and peels, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Stir well; boil until it clears, and begins to jelly j then put into pots. 6. Cocoanut Cakes. One grated cocoanut, one teacup of powdered sugar, whites of three eggs, well beaten ; add sugar first, and then the eggs, gradually to the cocoanut. Put the mixture in pieces on buttered paper about the size of small eggs, and each piece a little way apart from the next. Bake for half an hour. The mixture ought to be just thick enough to roll into balls to bake. 7. Gateau de Pommes. Take two pounds and a half of any good baking apples, oaroMISCELLANEO US. 61 and peel them, and put them in a preserving-pan with three- quarters of a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger, and a little lemon-juice ; boil the whole over a clear fire until it is a fine pulp and will jelly. Put into crockery shapes ready to turn out when required. 8. Almond Cakes. The whites of two eggs well beaten, two ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter, blanched and pounded, and one pound of pounded loaf sugar ; mix all together, and pound in a mortar, which makes it lighter ; roll into small balls, and prick in three places with a feather. Place the balls on paper far apart, and bake in a 3low oven. 9. Shrewsbury Cakes. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed in, and one egg ; currants or seeds according to taste. Place in patty tins, and bake for three- quarters of an hour. 10. Rosquilhas (Madeira Cakes). One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and a wineglassful of milk : mix all together, roll the paste out, and cut into thin strips, which must be rolled into rings. Bake in a quick oven till of a pale brown colour. 11. Broas (Madeira Cakes). One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, a little grated lemon-peel, and two eggs : put the butter into the flow, add the other ingredients (the eggs should be well beaten), roll out the paste, and make into little round cakes rather smaller than maccaroons. If the mixture be not quite moist enough, add a little milk. 12. Cheese Turnovers. Make an ordinary dripping crust, cut some cheese in slices, and place it on the crust (which must have previously been rolled out rather thin), add a little made mustard, pepper, salt,6z ECONOMICAL COOKERY. and a few drops of either vinegar or sauce. Fold the crust over, and bake in a quick oven. 13. Cheese Omelette. Two eggs, four ounces of cheese grated, pepper, and a little salt : mix all together, and fry in butter. 14. Cheesekins. Grate two ounces and a half of cheese ; add two ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, an eggspoon of flour of mustard, cayenne to taste, one yolk of egg well beaten, one tablespoonful of water : roll out, cut in thin strips, place in a tin, and bake for a quarter of an hour. 15. Gingerbread Cake. One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter : rub these smoothly together, then mix in a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, one ounce of ground ginger, and a few dry walnuts ; add to these ingredients, gradually, one pound of treacle, one egg well beaten, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in half a cup of warm water : add the soda last. Put in a buttered tin, and bake in a good oven for two hours. 16. “ Claras” Cake. A pound and a half of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, two ounces of baking-powder, two eggs, half a pint of milk ; seeds or currants to taste : mix all the dry ingredients well together, add the eggs and milk, beat the cake up quickly, place in a greased tin, and bake in a good oven for an hour and a half. 17. To make Baking-Powder. One pound of ground rice, half a pound of carbonate of soda, six ounces of tartaric acid : mix very thoroughly, and place in a tin. Note.—This baking-powder is very superior to what is usually bought—has more strength, and will keep any length of time in a dry place. 18. Scones. One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, one large table*63 MISCELLANEO US. spoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of salt: mix with a little milk, roll out about half an inch thick, cut into cakes with a tumbler, and bake a quarter of an hour. When they are served, they should be cut nearly in half, and a little piece of butter put inside each. 19. Tea loaves. One pound of flour, two eggs, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of salt. Moisten with milk, knead well, and make into the shape of tiny cottage loaves. Bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. 20. To make Bread with German Yeast. Take two ounces of German dried yeast, mix with a teacupful of flour, and place in a deep pie-dish ; make this into a smooth paste with half a pint of warm (not hot) water. Place the pie- dish with its contents on the kitchen fender ; if the yeast be good, it will soon begin to “grow,” or work, and nearly fill the pie-dish in about an hour. It is much wiser always to prove the yeast in this way (though it is not generally done), for two reasons : first, if the yeast be bad, the loss is but small; secondly, by increasing the yeast in this way the bread rises more thoroughly when you make the dough. Having ascer- tained that your yeast is good, weigh seven pounds of flour into a deep bread-pan, and mix with it two ounces of salt; make a hole' in the middle of the flour, and pour in the yeast; mix this well into the flour, and add gradually enough warm water to make a moderately stiff dough ; knead thoroughly for about a quarter of an hour, adding a small handful of flour now and then to take up the water, or rather to dry the dough suffi- ciently ; this done, place your pan beside the kitchen fire with a clean cloth over it: the heat of the weather and size of the fire must determine the distance at which you place the pan ; it must not be too near, and you must be careful never to place the pan in a draught. When the dough has risen to about double the height that it was when you left off kneading, and looks light and spongy, it is ready to be placed in the oven. An hour is the stated time, but it will often take longer than this to rise in the pan, and especially in winter-time. Flour some tins, to prevent the dough sticking (two large and two small tins will generally take the quantities given above); tear the dough into pieces large enough to half fill the tins ; place them in a quick oven, and on no account open the oven door after you haveECONOMICAL COOKERY. 64 closed it on the loaves, for a full hour ; then look in to see that they are rising properly, and keep watching them from time to time. In about three hours from the time they are first put in the oven you may try if they are enough baked by stabbing them quickly with a clean knife; if any of the dough adheres to the knife, they are not ready to come out; if, on the contrary the knife has only a little steam upon it, they are done. Remove them from the tins, and then place them sideways on the kitchen table until they are quite cool, when they can be put away in the larder. 21. Apple Jelly. Choose some sour apples, cut them in pieces, but do not peel them; put them in a jar, with water to cover them, either in the oven or on the range ; when quite soft, squeeze the water from them, and to every nine pints of liquor add four pounds of brown sugar; boil gently until it jellies, then put in moulds or pots for use. 22. Vegetable-marrow Jam. To twelve pounds of ripe marrow, weighed after the skins and pips are l’emoved, allow nine pounds of loaf sugar (three-quarters of a pound to a pound) and four large lemons. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with a little of the marrow, after cutting it all up into pieces about half an inch square. When the sugar, etc., boils, put in the rest of the marrow, and let it boil about two hours ; then cut the four lemons in half, squeeze out the juice and pips, and put the skin and pulp, etc., into the jam to flavour it well; let it all boil another half-hour, and then add the juice of the four lemons ; boil it again for half an hour, and then if it seems inclined to set, and the pieces of marrow are transparent, take it off the fire, throw away the lemon halves, and put the rest in pots for future use. This jam can also be made of green marrows, but would not look so nice, as the fruit smashes when green. Made with ripe pumpkin, it is superior and much richer than with ripe marrow. The jam ought to boil three hours after all the marrow is added. 23. Lemonade Syrup. Boil four pounds of loaf sugar in a quart of water, strain into a basin, and when nearly cold stir in two ounces and a half of powdered citric acid previously dissolved with a little hot water;MISCELLANEO US. 65 then add forty drops of essence of lemon, stirring well as you drop it. Bottle off into three wine-bottles. Use two dessert- spoonsful of the syrup to a tumbler of cold water. 24. Lemonade Powder. One pound of crushed loaf sugar, one ounce of tartaric acid, and thirty drops of essence of lemon : pound the sugar and acicl in a mortar, having mixed well; stir while you drop the essence of lemon. Bottle for use : two teaspoonsful added to a tumbler of cold water. 25. Gingerbeer Powder. One pound of moist sugar, one ounce of powdered ginger, three ounces of tartaric acid, three ounces of carbonate of soda, twenty drops of essence of lemon : add the tartaric acid last of all. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, and put them in a covered jar in a dry place. This will not keep very long. 26. Cheap Seed Cake for Children. Half a quartern of dough, a quarter of a pound of Australian marrow, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one egg, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and some caraway-seeds : mix all together, place in a floured bread-tin, and bake for three h0UT3. 27. Bolo de Mel Ingleze (Gingerbread). One pound of flour, one pound of treacle, one pound of brown sugar, half a pound of butter, two eggs, a quarter of a pound of citron, one dessert-spoonful of ground cloves and one of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the grated rind of two lemons, and one wine-glass of milk : beat the eggs and the sugar together, rub the butter into the flour, then add all the other ingredients, mixing well ; put the soda in last. Place the mixture in a buttered tin, and bake for nearly three hours. 28. Milk Cake. A pound and a quarter of flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and half a teaspoonful of baking-powder, mixed into a paste with cold milk : roll it out thin (less than half an inch), and divide into pieces the size of a plate. Bake in a brisk oven for an hour. 566 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 29. Fondue or Cheese Pudding-. A teacupful of grated cheese, a cup and a half of bread-crumbs, and a little cayenne pepper : mix these ingredients, and pour on them one pint of boiling milk, adding a small bit of butter (size of a walnut). When the mixture is nearly cold, add two well-beaten eggs ; butter a pie-dish, pour in the above, and bake until it begins to brown. Serve at once, or it will fall. 30. Potato Cheese. Cut some boiled potatoes (cold) in slices, and lay them in a pie-dish which has been well buttered, then add some cheese cut in slices, a few dabs of butter, and a little unmade mustard, on this some slices of cold potato, and so on until the pie-dish is nearly full. Pour over all one pint of milk, and bake in a quick oven for an hour. 31. French Omelette. Twq eggs : beat the whites and the yolks separately ; to the yolks add a teaspoonful of chopped onion and one of chopped parsley, some pepper and salt ; mix well, and add the stiff whites ; have ready some boiling Australian marrow in a frying-pan, throw in the mixture, and fry until the lower side is yellowish brown and the upper side begins to set; fold it in half, but do not turn it, and serve very hot. 32. “ Perada,” or Pear Jam. To every three pounds of pears, weighed after they are peeled and cored, allow one pound of loaf-sugar; place the pears and sugar in a preserving-pan ; stir well until the sugar melts, or the jam will be burnt. This preserve takes many hours to boil: the time depends upon the quality of the pears and the heat of the fire. It ought to be a dark colour when ready. Fill your jars, and when cold cover them with paper wetted with paste round the edges. 33. Swiss Recipe for Orang-e Marmalade. Take in the proportion of eight Seville oranges and four sweet ones; cut them longways in very thin slices, peel and pulp and all, taking out the pips ; place the slices in a deep bowl, and for each orange allow one full tumbler of cold water;67 M.ISCELLA NEO US. eover them, and let them stand twelve hours. Next day put the contents of the bowl in a preserving-pan, and let them simmer for five hours, or longer, until the peel of the oranges looks clear: to every twelve oranges allow eight pounds of crystallised sugar (ihd. per pound), and boil after the sugar is added an hour longer. This marmalade costs 2\d. the one-pouncl jar. 34. Green Walnut Preserve. Take green walnuts, and boil them in water about ten minutes; strain, and reboil them in fresh water until tender; be careful not to let them break; strain them again, and add their weight in moist or lump sugar and a few cloves ; boil all together for half an hour, without breaking the walnuts : when the syrup jellies they are done. Place in pots like any other preserve. 35. Soda Buns. Take a pint and a half of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, rubbing them together; add half a pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; dissolve a teaspoonful of tartaric acid in a quarter of a pint of milk, and add to the other ingredients ; and lastly, two well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture in rough pieces on a floured baking-tin, with a small slice of candied peel on each bun. 36. “Parkin.” Half a pound of treacle, one pound of oatmeal, two ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar: melt the treacle and butter together, put them into a basin, and add the oatmeal and sugar. Pour in buttered tins, and bake slowly for two hours or longer. 37. Winter Salad. Boil and mash eight large potatoes, using a little milk to make them soft; add salt, pepper, some onion chopped very fine, a small quantity of mustard, two tablespoonsful of oil, and two of vinegar : mix all thoroughly; cut up some celery rather small, a beetroot cut in slices and then quartered ; mix these with the potato, etc., and over all lay some slices of cut beetroot. 38. Tomato Chutnee. Two pounds of tomatoes, one pound of Spanish onions, half a pound of apples, half an ounce of salt, half a pint of vinegar, 1ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 68 cayenne to taste : dip the tomatoes into boiling water for a moment to enable you to skin them easily, and cut them in slices; chop the onions and apples quite small ; mix all the ingredients together, and boil them in a saucepan for two hours. When you take the pan from the fire, mash the contents with a wooden spoon. Place it when cold in small bottles, cork them, and seal to exclude the air. A clove or two of bruised garlic is an im- provement. 0 39. Chutnee. One pound of sugar to be made into syrup with a pint of water. Fifteen large apples to be boiled in a quart of vinegar until quite tender. Two ounces of mustard, two ounces of ground ginger, one pound of raisins chopped small, one ounce of garlic chopped, one ounce of cayenne. As soon as the apples are tender enough to mash, add to them the syrup first, then the other ingredients, and lastly four ounces of salt. 40. American Rice. Boil a large cup of rice until quite tender, then fry it in a little dripping, adding to it the fleshy part of two ripe tomatoes (omitting the seeds and skin). Turn the contents of the frying- pan into a hot mould just to shape it, then place it on a dish and strew a little grated cheese over all. 41. “ Gaypacho ”—Spanish Summer Soup. Soak some stale bread cup up small in cold water, pound in a mortar a clove of garlic, an onion, one tomato, salt, and a green capsicum, gradually adding two tablespoonsful of oil and one of vinegar. Strain these things, with the addition of a little water over the soaked bread, and stir all well together. To this add two tomatoes chopped small, two onions ditto, one cucumber cut in slices, and a green capsicum also sliced. Omit the seeds and skins of the tomatoes. 42. Sweet Scones. One pound and a quarter of flour, quarter of a pound of sugar, one ounce and a half of butter. Rub these well together, dissolve one ounce of carbonate of soda and half an ounce of cream of tartar in a pint of milk, and add these to the flour,69 MISCELLANEOUS. etc. Roll out on a pasteboard, cut with a tumbler, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes or longer. Split them almost in half, put in a piece of butter, and eat hot. 43. Nasturtium Sauce. Put one pint of nasturtium flowers into a stone jar with six large shalots, two teaspoonsful of salt and one of cayenne pepper. Pour over these one quart of boiling vinegar. Tie it down for six weeks, then strain it, and add three ounces of Indian soy. It is then fit for use. 44. Roman Pudding. Boil one rabbit until quite tender, take the meat off the bones and cut small, mix with it two ounces of boiled maccaroni, two ounces of grated cheese, one small onion chopped fine, half a pint of milk, and pepper and salt. Place in a pie-dish and bake with a little butter on the top for one hour. 45. Veal Goose. Cover the best end of the neck of veal with sage and onion stuffing, roll it up, make it firm with skewers, and roast it before the fire or bake in the oven. Make the stuffing by boiling two or three Spanish onions for half an hour. Chop them small, weigh them, and add an equal weight of breadcrumbs, one heaped tablespoonful of sage, one ounce of blitter, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, and twice that quantity of salt.ADDENDA Wherever haricot beans are used in cooking, it is necessary to soak them first in cold water for twelve hours. Where colouring is required, either in stews or hashes, let the onion used have its outer skin left on, and neither burnt sugar nor any other coloured matter will be required. To prevent greens from either smelling or tasting strong, place a crust of dry bread in the water in which they are boiled ; and to keep the greens a good colour, put a spoonful of brown sugar into the water instead of soda. Fruit puddings with suet crust should always have a sprinkling of soft sugar placed on the buttered surface of the basin before the crust is laid in. This makes them look richer, and forms a thick sauce which flows over the pudding when it is turned out of the basin. I am much obliged to my kind critic of The Queen, who points out a material omission in the recipe for £ ‘ Bouillabaisse ” —Tomatoes. It is certainly much improved by the addition of two or three, or if not to be had, Tomato sauce might be used as a substitute. In this unfortunate season, when good cooking apples are so scarce and dear, I cannot too strongly recommend the American tinned apples. I always use those put up by the “ Oneida Community.” The large tins are most economical, as they keep well for quite a week after they are opened. They each contain about 7 lb. of peeled, cored, and half-cooked apples. Hazell, Watson, and Viney, Printers, London and Aylesbury.fjUSTARDS USE BIRD’S The Original and only Genuine. Established 1837. Produces the most delicious Custard without Eggs, at half the cost and trouble. WITHOUT CUSTARD In Gd. Boxes sufficient for 3 pints, Is. boxes for 7 pints. POWDER. To prevent disappointment, each packet must bear the . inventor’s address— ALFRED BIRD, BIRMINGHAM. ASK FOR LIEBIG COMPANY'S EXTRACT OF MEAT. CAUTION.—Genuine ONLY with, facsimile of Baron Liebig’s Signature, in Blue Ink, across Label. *** In use in most households throughout the kingdom. Ask for the COMPANY’S Extract, and see that no other is substituted for it. A slight addition of the Extract gives great strength and flavour to Soups, Made Dishes, and Sauces; and effects great economy.GOOD THINGS GOODALL’S YORKSHIRE RELISH. The Most Delicious Sauce in the World. Bottles, 6d., Is., and 2s. each. GOODALL’S BAKING POWDER. The Best in the World. Id. Packets ; 6c?., Is., 2s., and 5s. Tins. GOODALL’S QUININE WINE. The Best, Cheapest, and most Agreeable Tonic yet introduced. Bottles, Is., Is. 1 \d., 2s.r and 2s. 3c?. each. GOODALL’S CUSTARD POWDER. Makes delicious Custards without Eggs, and at Half the Price. In Boxes, 6d. and Is. each. GOODALL’S BRUNSWICK BLACK. For Painting Stoves, Grates, Iron, Tin, &c. 6c?. and Is. Bottles. GOODALL’S BLANCMANGE POWDER. Makes rich and delicious Blancmange in a few minutes. In Boxes, 6d. and Is. each. GOODALL’S MUSHROOM KETCHUP. Great Strength ! Perfect Purity l ! and Unsurpassed Flavour. 6c?., Is., and 2s. Bottles. GOODALL’S GINCER BEER POWDER. Makes Three Gallons of the best Ginger Beer in the World for 3d. In Packets, 3d. and 6c?. each. GOODALL’S EGG POWDER. One Penny Packet will go as far as Four Eggs, and One Sixpenny Tin as far as Twenty-eight. In 1 d. Packets ; 6c?. and Is. Tins. Shippers and the Trade Supplied by the Sole Proprietors, GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO., White Horse Street, Leeds.'Em TE^TgpxLB sToiip.isacBj^^vS *— nlYlEATC <LPZSWfcS v*' RRAND AND CO.’S OWN SAUCE. An excellent Relish, for all kinds of Soups, Meats, Fish, Entrees, etc. “ This excellent relish has been prepared especially for persons of weak digestion. The ingredients have been chosen with the object of providing a gentle stimulant to the appetite without in any way affecting injuriously the digesti ve organs. They are perfectly pure and innocuous, and this appetising Sauce has been strongly recommended by the medical pro- fession."—Court Journal, Nor. 10th, 1877. ESSENCE OF BEEF. (Similar preparations are also made from MUTTON, from VEAL, and from CHICKEN.) This essence consists solely of the juice of the finest meat, extracted by a gontle heat, without the addition of water or of any other substance whatever. It contains, therefore, the most stimulating and exhilarating properties of the meat, calculated to invigorate the heart and brain immediately, without any fatty or other elements which require solution in the stomach. It has been introduced into medical practice as a stimulant, after loss of blood from any cause, and in cases of nervous exhaustion and enfeebled digestion. It is liquid in warm weather, but in cold weather, or when iced, it takes a jelly form, in which state it is usually preferred. CONCENTBATED BEEF TEA. Thi3 article contains all the soluble ingredients of the best beef, and may be taken by the moat deb cate Btomach with perfect safety. Brand & Co. have the honour to state that, for many yeare past, the most eminent of the Medical Profession have constantly prescribed their Beef Tea and other preparations, as peculiarly adapted for invalids. It will keep in any climate. Soups of all kinds specially adapted for Invalids. SOLE ADDBESS— No. n, LITTLE STANHOPE ST., MAYFAIR, W.wholesomeness and economy in use, as well as from its BREAKFAST BEVERAGES. SUPPER STIMULANTS T. & H. SMITH’S ' ESSENCE OF COFFEE. • ♦ T. & H. SMITH’S ESSENCE OF COFFEE with CHICORY Is eminently Economical. Five Breakfast Cups of Coffee for One Penny. The value of chicory as a dietetic article arises from its power of counteracting that tendency to biliousness which pure coffee produces in many constitutions. The importance of chicory as a dietetic article is realized from the official statistics of the crop in Belgium for the year 1876—those last published—which state it to have been 74,506,554 kilos.: about 73,000 tons. T. & H. SMITH’S CONDENSED CAEE AU LA1T (iCOFFEE AND MILK). T. & H. SMITH &L CO., EDINBURGH, ami 12, Worship Street, LONDON. SUPPER STIMULANTS. BREAKFAST BEVERAGES,RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 1 33o Microfilm No: Date Particulars 1 ^ Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Spf*^( , bMC Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks GEO. NELSON. DALE, & CO., 14, Dowgate Hill, London.V it wmm DOMESTIC WORLD Pill BY THE :ii*| AUTHOR OF ENQUIRE WITHIN PR ICE