22102014431Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28078512r I A’' I* V' » X a Si I - rSOUPS AND DRESSED FISHBY THE SAME AUTHOR. SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. One Shilling. ENTREES A LA MODE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. IS. 6d. OYSTERS A LA MODE; or, The Oyster, and over loo Ways of Cooking it : to which are added a few Recipes for Cooking all kinds of Shelled-fish. Crown 8vo. is. 6d. SWEETS A LA MODE. Crown 8vo. is. 6d, London : LONCxMANS, GREEN, & CO.SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE BY MRS DE SALIS AUTHORESS OF ‘SAVOURIES X LA MODE’ ‘ENTRIES X LA MODE’ ‘oysters a la mode’ ETC. lUHIt please ^ou taste Of wbat is bere? Shakespeare SECOND EDITION LONDON LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST i6‘h STREET 1888 All rights reservedPRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDONPREFACE. My former books, Savouries a la mode and Entrees a la mode^ having met with such a kindly recep- tion from the public and the press, I am en- couraged to offer this little work dealing with Soups and Dressed Fish, hoping that it may meet with the success of its predecessors. I fear that I cannot say, as in my former pre- faces, that ‘ many of the recipes are original ’ ; but, nevertheless, I trust that the result will prove to be such a bouquet garni as will please the palates of the greatest connoisseurs. HARRIET DE SALIS.1SOUPS 'A LA MODE. Alma Mater Soup. Potage Alma Mater. Take a sheep’s-head and pluck ; fry them, then boil them in a gallon of water till reduced to two quarts ; add to it a small tea-cupful of pearl barley, two large onions, carrots, turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, and four cloves ; season it with pepper and salt to taste. When sufficiently boiled, put in two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup thickened with flour and butter; cut the best of the head into small pieces and add to the soup a glass of Marsala and some forcemeat balls. (See Mock Turtle Soup for force- meat.) The head should be boiled or fried as long as the other parts. Almond Soup. Potage aux Amandes. Boil four pounds of lean veal or an old fowl, with a scrag end of neck of mutton, in sufficient water to cover it till the meat is thoroughly cooked, and the gravy good. Strain it, and put it again uponSOUPS A LA MODE. 2 the fire with five cloves and one grate of nutmeg. Blanch and pound one pound of sweet almonds and the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs ; beat these well together and add them slowly and smoothly to the stock when it is cool. Boil again, stirring con- stantly ; thicken with a little flour and butter, and just before serving add a teacupful of cream. Asparagus Soup. Puree d’Asperges. Take fifty heads of asparagus and boil them in salt and water till tender. Drain them and press them through a hair sieve. Stir the puree of aspara- gus into three pints of unflavoured stock. Boil, and add salt, pepper, and a small lump of sugar. If the colour is not very good a few leaves of young spinach mixed in a mortar with pounded sugar will improve it. Boil about fifty more heads of asparagus, and put them into the tureen and pour the asparagus soup on to them. Soup with Asparagus. Potage aux Pointes d’Asperges. Boil one hundred heads of asparagus in salt and water ; place them in a tureen and pour boiling good clear soup over them. Balmoral Soup. Potage a la Palmoral. Boil one and a half ounces of pearl barley in cold water. Strain and well wash it. Then put it into a stewpan with a quart of clear pale stock and let it simmer for two or three hours till it is quite tender, skimming well the whole time. Take aSOUPS A LA MODE. calf’s-foot tied up in a clean cloth and put it into four quarts of white second stock. Let it come to the boil and skim. Then put into the stew- pan five cloves, six peppercorns, two onions, one shalot, a little celery, a bouquet garni and a bay- leaf. Let all simmer for four hours, then strain off, and when cold remove the fat, clear the soup with white of egg ; when clarified warm it up and pour in a good wine-glass of sherry or Madeira. Take the foot out of the cloth, remove all the sinews and gristly parts, cut it into neat pieces, wash them and put them into the soup, and add the barley. Bonne Femme Soup. Potage a la Bonne Femme. Take two lettuces, two leaves of sorrel (if pos- sible), four sprigs of tarragon, four sprigs of chervil, and wash them ; shred them all very finely. Take a cucumber and cut it in half, peel it, and cut it up in thin slices, and then shred it with a sharp knife. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put all the shredded vegetables in the stewpan to sweat for five minutes. Sprinkle over them half a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of castor sugar. Watch the pan well so that the vegetables do not burn nor discolour. Take a pint and a half of white stock, put it into a clean saucepan and let it boil. Take the yolks of three eggs and beat them well in a basin, stir in one gill of cream or milk. When the stock is quite boiling, pour it into the stewpan with the vegetables, and let all boil gently for ten minutes till the vege- tables are tender ; after that take the pan off the fire till it has cooled a little ; then stir in the liaison of4 SOUPS A LA MODE. egg, straining it through a sieve into the stewpan when it is ready. Bouillabaisse. Any kind of fish may be used for this dish. Chop two onions, and put them with a piece of butter into a stewpan and let them brown without burning. Then arrange the fish (whatever it is), which has been previously cut into small pieces, in the pan ; add a small quantity of the best olive oil, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, two slices of lemon, two tomatoes, and as much powdered saffron as will go on the point of a table-knife, and lastly a glass of Marsala. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. When ready to serve, throw in a handful of chopped parsley. Brunoise Soup. Potage a la Brunoise. Cut into very small dice two ounces of carrots, two ounces of turnips, two ounces of leeks, two ounces of celery, and two ounces of onions. Blanch all these vegetables separately, drain, and put them into a stewpan with six ounces of butter; fry them for four minutes, stirring all the time ; then add half a teaspoonful of castor sugar and half a pint of clarified stock ; reduce this to a glaze, and add one and a half quarts more of the clarified stock and simmer on the corner of the range, skimming off the fat as it rises to the surface. Blanch and cook a quarter of a pound of Italian paste, drain it and put it into the soup tureen ; pour the Brunoise soup over and serve.5 SOUPS A LA MODE. Calf’s-tail Soup k la Richelieu. Potage aux Queues de Veau a la Richelieu. Cut up two calves’ tails into pieces one and a half inches long, place these in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a couple of celery sticks, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and four shalots. Pour on two quarts of stock and boil very gently for about an hour and a half; the pieces of tail being now done must be strained from the stock and set aside, whilst the stock must be placed in a stewpan with six ounces of white thickening stirred over the fire till it boils, and then removed to side of fire to throw up the grease, which must be skimmed. Next strain it into the saucepan again, and put in the pieces of calfs-tail and a few quenelles of forcemeat. Just five minutes before dinner is served, stir gently into it a liaison of four yolks of egg, a gill of cream, a glass of sherry, and a dust of nutmeg ; a small teaspoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir all over the fire for five minutes and serve. Carrot Soup. Potage a la Crecy. Cut up some carrots, one turnip, celery, and two onions, blanch them in boiling water, and put on the fire with some thin slices of lean ham, an ounce of fresh butter, a lump of sugar, three large onions, two turnips, two sticks of celery, three leeks, and a dozen peppercorns. Cover the saucepan closely and let the soup steam over a gentle fire for tenSOUPS A LA MODE. 6 minutes. Shake the saucepan to prevent the contents from burning. Pour over a quart of second stock, and let all simmer gently for two hours till vegetables are quite tender; strain off the soup and press the vegetables through a sieve. Mix the pulp again with the stock, season with pepper and salt, put it back into the stewpan and let it boil. Draw it then to the side of fire for a few moments, and skim off the fat as it rises, and serve hot. Phaed sippets of bread cut into very tiny dice should be handed with it. Chestnut Soup a la Mancelle. Puree de Marrons a la Mancelle. Take twenty-five large chestnuts, slit them at the ends, and put them into boiling water for ten minutes. Remove the husks. Melt three ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts and sauter for a few minutes, but do not brown. Add one and a half pints of thin game stock, and let the soup boil till the chestnuts are tender, when they must be rubbed through a hair sieve. Warm up the soup and add a teaspoonful of castor sugar, half a pint of cream, and a little pepper and salt when it is ready to be served. A pint of milk may be used instead of the cream. Chicken Puree k la Reine. Potage a la Reine. Put an old chicken into the stewpan with two and a half quarts of general stock, one bouquet garni, one onion, a salt-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of sugar. Let this boil for nearly half an hour ; letSOUPS A LA MODE. 7 the chicken cool in the broth for a quarter of an hour, drain, and strain the broth through a napkin, and skim off the fat very carefully ; then add a thickening of fifteen sweet almonds, peeled and washed, pounded in a mortar, adding a gill of cream whilst pounding; press through the tammy, and add this liaison to the soup. Make some force- meat quenelles and place in the tureen, pour on the soup, and serve. Forcemeat quenelles for this soup of panada, general stock, and some pounded chicken, which must all be passed through a hair sieve. When the chicken is passed add the panada, and season with salt, pepper, and a small pinch of nutmeg; mix all together with Allemande sauce, and make into balls and poach in boiling stock. Soup k la Colbert. Potage a la Colbert. Take a quarter of a pound of carrot and a quarter of a pound of turnip, and turn them into squares, diamonds, or any other shape of uniform size. Boil them slightly in salted water till they are done enough. Drain them and put them into a clean stewpan with three pints of nicely flavoured chicken broth ; let them boil a minute, then serve the soup, sending half a dozen poached eggs float- ing on the top. Conservative Soup. Potage a la Conservative. Peel and cut about six carrots into thin slices, using the red part only; also slice a couple of8 SOUPS A LA MODE. onions, leeks, and turnips, and a little celery also into thin slices, add a bouquet garni, a bay-leaf, and some mignonette pepper, and fry them all in butter ; then add three tablespoonfuls of creme de riz and two quarts of thin light stock ; mix well, let it come to the boil ; skim, and let it simmer on the side of the fire for three hours ; then strain and pass all the vegetables through the sieve; put them back into the liquor again, and rub them through a second time. Mix together two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, half an ounce of butter, a little salt and a lump of white sugar, add the puree, strain the soup into the tureen and garnish with red and white quenelles made as follows. Pound three ounces of veal with one ounce of panada, a small piece of butter, a little pepper and salt all together, bind with the yolk of an egg, and pass through a sieve. Divide this mixture into two parts ; colour one with a little carmine, and the other with a little milk or cream. Make small quenelles of this about the size of marbles, and poach them in boiling water, drain them, and add them to the soup. Clear Soup. Consomme Take from six to seven pounds of first cut of hind leg of beef Cut it into several pieces, remove the meat and the marrow, put the pieces of meat (cut into small junks) with the marrow to brown on the fire. Wash the bones to free them from any impurity, then put them into a large pan and cover with cold water, which let come gradually to the boil; skim it most carefully, draw it to the side of the range, and put in black peppercorns, salt, a9 SOUPS A LA MODE. lump of sugar, and the browned pieces of the meat with their gravy. Let them simmer on the side of the range for three hours, then add a parsnip, a carrot, and a piece of turnip cut into good sized pieces, and two onions ; let all simmer together for another two hours, then strain through hair sieve and let it get cold, when the fat must be taken off and the stock wiped over with a wet, warm cloth ; then boil up, and if not clear clarify with egg whites as usual. Crayfish Soup. Bisque d’Ecrevisses. Wash half a hundred crayfish and boil them on a brisk fire with salt, white pepper, a little nutmeg, and a piece of butter ; toss them and stir them without intermission for a quarter of an hour. When they are all red, take out the meat from the shells, and take out the gut which goes to the end of the tail. Fry some bread very crisp and brown, and pound it with the meat, reserving a few fine pieces ; dilute with light veal broth to the thickness of cream ; add the butter in which the crayfish were done, coloured with red lobster spawn ; pound it well and add it to the puree ; then pour the whole through the tammy and keep it hot till it is wanted. Fried bread cut to very small dice should be handed with it. Cucumber Soup. Potage aux Concombres. Peel a cucumber and let it steep for a little while in cold water, then lay it in a pan with two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful- of sugar, onelo SOUPS A LA MODE. onion, and a gill of water; these proportions are for one pound of cucumber. Stew it till perfectly tender, then press it all through a sieve. Replace it in the pan and add one pint of milk to one pound of cucumber. Put in a dessertspoonful of cornflour to the milk, and mix it smoothly before putting the cucumber to it, and let the whole boil for a few minutes, ivatching it the whole time. It is ready when it is of the consistency of good cream. Eel Soup k I’Anglaise. Potage d’Anguilles a I’Anglaise. Soak three pounds of middle-sized eels in salt and water. Cut off the heads and slice them thinly. Simmer them in a stewpan with two ounces and a half of fresh butter for ten minutes, and then add two quarts of water, a sliced onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some peppercorns, salt to taste, and a small roll. Simmer till the eels are tender, then remove them and strain the liquid. Make a smooth batter with two tablespoonfuls of flour and a quarter of a pint of cream; put this and the liquid together, then boil up and pour over the sliced eels in the tureen. An imperceptible dust of sugar and a squeeze of lemon is an improve- ment. His Excellency’s Soup. Potage a Son Excellence. Take some chicken giblets, clean them care- fully, and put them in a stewpan of boiling water to blanch for five minutes. Next put them into cold water, wash and scrape them, and then put them and any bones of chicken into a quart ofSOUPS A LA MODE. n white stock with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one bouquet garni, two cloves, and some mignonette pepper; let the whole boil for two hours, skimming occasionally. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a little of the cold stock, put it into a clean stewpan with an ounce of butter, and let it cook for a few minutes; then add the stock, in which has been put a dust of cayenne, six drops of a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of O K sauce; let the whole boil up, and strain into the tureen. Empress Soup. Puree a I’lmp^'atrice. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan with three sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, a small bay- leaf, and ten large potatoes ; fry all these together till of a pale brown colour, then add two and a half pints of good light stock made from veal or rabbit; let it come gently to the boil, skim it, cover the pan and let it simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Pass through a very fine hair sieve, warm it up (but do not boil it), and when it is quite hot add half a pint of cream mixed with the raw yolks of two eggs and one ounce of butter ; stir in a jug in a saucepan of water till it thickens, strain it into the soup-tureen, and garnish with shredded lettuce prepared thus. Wash and dry the heart of a large lettuce, and cut it up in fine shreds, and fry in butter for ten minutes. Put it then into half a pint of stock, boil it for fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed, and then add it to the soup.SOUPS A LA MODE. 12 Fish Soup a la Pecheur. Potage a la Pecheur. Trim two good-sized haddocks, and boil the trimmings with a head of celery, a small quantity of parsley, two onions, a bay-leaf, and four cloves ; cover the saucepan closely, and let all boil for one hour. Then add as much more water as will be required to make the soup. Strain it and stir in a cupful of cream. Season with salt and white pepper. Lay in the tureen some eggs nicely fried in butter, allow one for each person. Pour the soup over and serve. Fish Soup. Potage au Consomme de Poisson. Boil down the trimmings and bones of any fish such as skate, plaice, &c., put them with three pints of fish stock into a saucepan, add three good- sized onions, two lemons sliced, the rind of one grated, a bunch of parsley and some chervil. When well stewed, strain through hair sieve. Have ready some fillets of sole, and when fried put them into the soup. Season with a little salt and cayenne, and put into the soup about five ounces of butter rolled in flour, and two glasses of sauterne or sherry. Simmer ten minutes, and serve with fish quenelles. {^See Fish Quenelles.) Soup h la Florenza. Potage ^ la Florenza. Put three pints of white stock in a stewpan to boil. Mix the yolks of three eggs and a gill ofSOUPS A LA MODE. 13 cream together in a basin, pour them into the stock with a little salt, and stir till the eggs are cooked. Then draw off the fire and add two ounces of cooked macaroni cut up in pieces half an inch long, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and a tiny dust of cayenne. The soup must not boil after the cheese is in. Game Soup k la Chasseur. Puree de Gibier a la Chasseur. This soup can be made of the remains of any cold game. Pick off all the white meat you can get from the bones, and pound it in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with five or six turnips, a slice of lean ham or the lean of bacon, a little pepper and salt, three onions, and three pints of white or pale stock ; simmer gently, and when the turnips are tender take them out, mix them with the pounded meat, and press them through a sieve. Keep adding a little of the broth so as to press through as much as possible. Return the broth to the saucepan, and let it get quite hot; a few minutes before serving draw it from the fire, let it cool a little, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and a cupful of cream. It must not boil after the eggs are added. If the soup is made of partridge bones, &c., or pheasant, a glass- ful of sherry should be added ; if from grouse, a glass of claret should be added. When the soup is made from fresh game, the breast and the best part of the meat should be placed aside after the birds are roasted, and just before serving should be cut into neat slices, and put into the soup with theSOUPS A LA MODE. 14 wine, when the soup should be made hot again. Two or three kinds of game may be mixed in the same soup. Soup de Galles. Potage a la Galles. Take a pig’s-head, set aside the cheeks, which may be cured ; partly boil the rest; then cut up the meat into neat square pieces, and put the bones to stew in three quarts of second stock, well flavoured with vegetables, sweet herbs, pepper and salt; then strain and set by to cool. The next day take off all the fat from the stock, heat it in a stewpan, thicken with flour and butter, and add the pieces of meat with forcemeat and egg-balls. The meat should be first simmered in the stock for a quarter of an hour before the forcemeat balls are added, and the egg-balls should only be put in just before sending to table. Make the forcemeat balls of finely chopped suet, bread crumbs, a little veal and ham or tongue, finely chopped sweet herbs, pepper and salt; bind all together with a little yolk of egg, make up into small balls with a sprinkle of flour, and boil them well for a few minutes before putting into the soup. For the egg-balls take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and half the yolk of a raw egg, mix together, rub through a wire sieve, make into a paste with a sprinkle of flour, form into small balls, and boil two or three minutes in water. Flavour the soup with a little mushroom ketchup or Old English sauce, a squeeze of lemon, and a little .sherry or Marsala.15 SOUPS A LA MODE. Giblet Soup. Potage de Gibelettes. Take two sets of goose or four sets of duck’s giblets, scald and skin the claws, ends of legs, &c., and wash them clean in cold water, and then put them into boiling water for five minutes to blanch. Then throw them into cold water and wash and scrape them clean, then cut the giblets into pieces about one and a half inches long and place them in a stewpan. Then take one-quarter head of celery, one carrot, one turnip, two onions and a shalot; wash all these well and scrape and peel them; put these into stewpan with the giblets, and add two cloves, a bouquet garni, and a bay-leaf. Pour in two quarts of second white stock, and let it boil gently for two hours, skimming occasionally. Then take out the best pieces of the giblets and trim them neatly and put them aside, leaving the stewpan on the fire to boil for half an hour; take another stew- pan, and put in one and a half ounce of butter and one ounce of flour, and let them fry for a few minutes, stirring well with a wooden spoon ; now add the stock and stir well till it boils. Remove the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for twenty minutes, the cover of the saucepan being only half on. Then skim off all the grease which will have arisen to the top, and strain the soup into a basin, adding one quarter-pint of Marsala, sherry or claret, a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, a grain of cayenne, and salt to taste. Put the giblets that were set aside into the tureen, and pour the soup over it.SOUPS A LA MODE. i6 Green Pea Soup. Potage de Puree des Pois Verts. Put a quart of stock on to boil; when boiling add salt, then take a quart of peas, a pint of the shells well washed, a small bunch of mint, and a handful of parsley, and boil until the vegetables are tender ; pass them through a hair sieve with the stock they were boiled in. Have ready half a pint of peas boiled, and put them into the pea stock which has been poured back into a clean stewpan to boil up, and just before serving add half a pint of cream and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Green Pea Soup (Maigre). Puree de Petits Pois. Take a quart of old green peas, two sprigs of mint, and two quarts of water ; boil all together till the peas are soft, then pass them through a sieve ; put the liquor thus obtained in a stewpan with a pint of young peas, two cucumbers cut in thick square pieces, two onions, with three ounces of butter; melt the butter with a little flour, only sufficient to keep it from cooling, with some, of the soup, and then add it to the remainder ; the addi- tion of a few drops of mushroom ketchup improves the flavour. Grouse Soup ^ I’Ecossaise. Consomme ^ la Coq-de-bruyere a I’Ecossaise, Take a brace of roasted grouse and cut out the fillets. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter, a chopped carrot, four shalots, one onion, some17 SOUPS A LA MODE. mushroom stalks, one ounce of lean ham, all cut up finely, a bouquet garni, one bay leaf, and a small piece of celery; fry these till lightly browned ; add the carcases of the birds, and moisten with two quarts of pale unseasoned stock ; stir over fire till it boils, then let it simmer for three hours. When cold clear off the grease, warm up, and pass through the tammy ; season with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and clarify. Cut the fillets into thin shreds, add them to the consomme, and serve with savoury custard cut into dice. Make the custard by taking the yolks of two eggs and one white; whisk them up with one gill of the stock and a little salt; butter a gallipot, and pour the egg mixture into it; stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour ; then turn the custard out to cool, and stamp the custard into dice or in small fancy shapes. Hare Soup. Potage a la Puree de Lievre. Cut up a hare into joints after it has been skinned and paunched. Do not wash it. Cut up a quarter of a pound of lean ham into small pieces and butter a saucepan with two ounces of butter; put the hare and ham into the stewpan and fry a light brown. Add an onion, two shalots, a bouquet garni, salt, whole pepper, a dust of cayenne, and half a pint of port wine (or claret), boil ten minutes, add two pints of second stock, and let all this simmer for about one and a half hours ; strain through a sieve, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound in a mortar ; then pass it through a hair sieve, using the liquor by degrees to pass it cSOUPS A LA MODE. i8 through ; make it hot in a stewpan, but do not let it boil. Sometimes a tablespoonful of red currant jelly is stirred in just before serving. Imperial Soup. Potage Imperial. Have some clear soup ready, and make before- hand a mixture of strong well-flavoured stock ; mix five beaten eggs, a little nutmeg, and salt to taste. Stir the liquid, and fill a well-buttered mould ; put on the lid closely, that no water may enter, and plunge the mould into it boiling. In an hour it will be ready for use, and may be sliced thinly or cut into small pieces. Serve in the tureen of clear soup. Soup ^ la Jardiniere. Potage a la Jardiniere. Scrape three carrots and three turnips and turn them into small fanciful pea shapes, all about the same size ; put them into a stewpan with a dozen button onions, three lettuce leaves, a little tarragon and chervil, and a head of celery cut as nearly as possible the same size as the turnips and carrots. Pour over them two quarts of nicely-seasoned clear stock and simmer till the vegetables are tender. A small lump of sugar is an improvement. Jubilee Soup. Potage a la Jubild Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, slice six tomatoes, two carrots, one onion, twelve mush-SOUPS A LA MODE. 19 rooms, four ounces of veal, and four ounces of ham, and add to the butter; let it steam a quarter of an hour, then add a good quart of stock, pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; simmer half an hour, take out the herbs and pass the rest through a sieve. Before serving squeeze half a lemon in and send up very hot. A little cochineal should be added to take off the darkness of colour caused by the mush- rooms. A cupful of boiling cream added at the last is considered an improvement by some. Julienne Soup. Consomme a la Julienne. Shred one large carrot, one small turnip, two leeks, half a head of celery, one onion, all of the same length and size. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and fry the vegetables a light brown ; add three pints of clear boiling consomme, one teaspoonful of sugar, and some salt. Skim well till all grease is removed, then add a cabbage lettuce shredded like the other vegetables, and a little shredded tarragon and chervil; let it boil a few minutes and serve. Kidney Soup a la Sydney. Potage aux Rognons a la Sydney. Cut an ox kidney into thin slices, season these with salt and pepper, dredge a little flour over them and fry them in butter till they are nicely browned. Pour over them as much boiling water as will cover them, and simmer gently for an hour. Take out the kidney and cut it into small pieces, and returnSOUPS A LA MODE. 20 it to the saucepan with two quarts of stock, two turnips, two carrots, one onion, three sticks of celery all cut small, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Simmer slowly for an hour and a half; then take out the herbs, add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup or Old English sauce, and a very little salt and pepper, and thicken the soup with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Lobster Bisque. Bisque de Homard. Take the pithy part, the coral and the spawn from two hen lobsters. Pound a small quantity of the coral and spawn in a mortar with a piece of butter the size of a walnut and an anchovy, add a very little cayenne, rub through a sieve and keep it in a cool place till wanted ; cut the meat into small pieces and fry it in a little butter with a carrot and a head of celery, cut it into very small pieces; add to this a sprig of thyme, a quarter of a blade of mace, and a very little pepper and salt. Fry this for five minutes, taking care that it does not burn, and if necessary mois- tening it with a little Rhenish wine—it will take about half a pint. Pour any of the wine that may have been used in the frying into the stewpan, into which the mixture must now be put. Let it boil quickly for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Then strain the lobster through a sieve after pound- ing it in the mortar; replace it into stewpan with the coral and spawn (which was put aside) with the liquor in which it was boiled, add a pint and a half of good white stock, rub the puree through a tammy into a basin till wanted.21 SOUPS A LA MODE. A quarter of an hour before serving put it into a stewpan to make it hot, stirring all the time, and be careful not to let it boil, or it will curdle ; stir in a small piece of pale glaze, and season with a very little cayenne and the juice of half a lemon ; the lobster butter made from the coral must also now be added. Have in the tureen some small balls made of whiting and egg, and pour the puree over them. Macaroni Soup. Potage au Macaroni avec Parmesan. Soak macaroni in salt and water and boil it in a little stock. When cooked cut it up into very small rings, and pour the necessary quantity of boiling stock over it. Grated Parmesan should be handed with this soup. Soup a la Moderne. Puree a la Moderne. Put two ounces of butter into a saucepan with three onions stuck with cloves, a bouquet of herbs, a bay-leaf and twelve sliced potatoes. Fry these all together, then add about a quart of white stock ; let this mixture come gradually to the boil, skim it carefully, and let it simmer for half an hour, keep- ing the lid well closed. After this pass it through a hair sieve, warm it up gently, and when quite hot add half a pint of warm cream, mixed with three yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of butter ; stir till it thickens, then strain into the tureen with shredded lettuce which has been fried in butter for about seven or eight minutes and well skimmed.SOUPS A LA MODE. 22 Mock Turtle Soup. Potage Fausse Tortue a la Metropole. Take half a calfs-head, wash and bone it. Tie the meat in a cloth, and chop the bones. Place bones, meat, and four quarts of cold water into a stewpan, put it on the fire, add a little salt, and let it boil up, and skim well. Let it boil for three hours, strain into a basin to get cold, when the fat must be very carefully removed. Melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan, and put in one carrot, one turnip, one onion, half a head of celery, one bouquet garni, twenty peppercorns, four cloves cleaned and cut up very small; cut four ounces of lean ham into dice, and put it in with the vegetables and fry for ten minutes ; add three ounces of flour and stir well. The stock must now be poured in and stirred till it boils, when the pan must be moved to the side of the fire and allowed to simmer for ten minutes. Add two glasses of sherry, the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne and salt, and strain the soup into another stewpan. Cut some of the calfs-head into small neat pieces and serve it in the soup. Make some forcemeat balls as follows : two ounces of beef suet, three ounces of bread- crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter teaspoonful of minced thyme and marjoram, half a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, a trifle of nutmeg, one egg, pepper and salt; mix all these together and roll into small balls, poach them in salted water, and put them into the soup.23 SOUPS A LA MODE. Clear Mulligatawny Soup. Potage cle Kari Clair. Take four onions, six apples, two shalots, one leek, six cardamom seeds, one tablespoonful of mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls of curry powder, two tablespoonfuls of curry paste, and one tablespoonful of salt, and put them into a stewpan with three quarts of second stock, and let it boil for two hours. When it is cold, add four whites of eggs beaten up with a little cold water, and let all boil up again, and when clarified strain through a clean cloth, after which add the juice of a lemon, with some pieces of cooked chicken in it. Well- boiled rice should be handed round with the soup. Mutton Soup. Potage de Mouton a la Creme. Boil half a teacupful of Scotch barley till quite tender in a quart of good mutton or any white stock, add two shalots, two turnips, two carrots, and parsley chopped fine, pepper and salt to taste. Put in some cutlets neatly trimmed from neck of mutton which has been boiled and the fat cut off. Just before serving thicken the broth with a tea- cupful of cream ; this is added cold. When cream cannot be procured, a teacupful and a half of milk will answer nearly as well. Onion Soup (Brown). Potage Soubise Brun. Take four large onions, peel them, and chop them into very small pieces. Melt two ounces of butter24 SOUPS A LA MODE. in a stewpan, and put in the onions, and let this cook for an hour; then put in some hot liquor in which cauliflower or some vegetable has been boiled, crumble in some stale bread, add some bacon rinds and pepper, and let all simmer for one hour. Pass through a tammy, then boil it up again to reduce it, and then pour into the soup tureen. Onion Soup (White). Potage Soubise Blanc. Take onions as in preceding recipe, and when they are cooked, one pint of milk and half a pint of seconds white stock, the crumbled bread, a little salt and pepper, a dust of cayenne, and let all simmer for an hour; boil it up again to reduce it, then add a gill of boiling cream just before serving it. Oxtail Soup (Clear). Potage aux Queues de Boeuf (Clair). Cut a fine large oxtail into pieces an inch long, and divide the thick part into four. Wash those pieces and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then drain them and wipe them. Now place them in a stewpan with two carrots, an onion stuck with four cloves, a small piece of thyme, a sprig of parsley, two sticks of celery, a teaspoonful of salt, eight peppercorns, a lump of white sugar, and a quart of clear stock. Boil, and remove the scum as it rises. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently till the meat is tender. Lift out the pieces of oxtail, strain the soup, and if it is not25 SOUPS A LA MODE. clear, clarify it with white of eggs in the usual manner. Turn three carrots and two turnips into very small shapes (or pea shapes), asparagus heads (or peas can be used as well, according to the season). Put these into a saucepan, pour the clarified stock over, and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender. Heat the pieces of oxtail, pour the soup upon them, and serve as hot as pos- sible. A teaspoonful of sherry is by some con- sidered an improvement. Oxtail Soup (Thick). Potage aux Queues de Boeuf (Lie). Take two-pennyworth of fresh bones simmered gently with three quarts of water for six hours, and carefully skimmed. Next take two oxtails, wash them, cut them in pieces about an inch long, and divide the thick pieces into four. Put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and fry them them till brightly browned. Slice some vegetables, two carrots, one turnip, two onions, a few sticks of celery, and fry them in the same butter, and a little lean ham or bacon cut into dice. Pour over them a quart of water, and stir it over a quick fire for a quarter of an hour ; then add two quarts of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay- leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, three cloves, and a lump of sugar ; simmer gently until the meat parts from the bones, then take it out and strain the soup, skim off all fat, take a little of the cold stock and two ounces of flour, blend them well together and the fat from the soup. Thicken the soup with this, add two table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup or Worcester sauce. /SOUPS A LA MODE. 26 add the pieces of tail, and simmer a quarter of an hour longer and serve, A glassful of port wine may be added. Oyster Soup. Potage aux Huitres, Take a couple of whitings, cut them in pieces and put them in a stewpan, with two quarts of white stock, some parsley roots, one carrot, one stick of celery, a little thyme, a few peppercorns, two anchovies, and a little salt; let all boil up, skim it well, and let it simmer for one hour, then strain it off. Put two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour into a stewpan, mix well together and pour in the stock ; stir it well and let it boil for ten minutes, then strain through a tammy sieve, Blanch and beard three dozen oysters, strain them and keep the liquor. Boil the stock, then draw it off the fire. Mix one gill of cream with two ^ oiks of eggs, together with a few drops of lemon-juice and a little cayenne ; pour this into the soup, and stir over the fire till the eggs are cooked, taking great care it does not boil. Just before serving, put in the oysters and oyster liquor. Palestine Soup. Puree d’Artichauts, Peel two dozen Jerusalem artichokes, and throw them into cold water as they are done to prevent discoloration ; then slice them and put them into a stewpan with three pints of white stock. Add four onions, a few sticks of celery, a small piece of the leanSOUPS A LA MODE. 27 of bacon or ham, and simmer all together gently for an hour until the vegetables are soft enough to press them through a fine sieve, and then put them back into the saucepan. Season with a little salt, a very little cayenne, a small lump of sugar ; add a little flour mixed with half a pint of milk, and stir over the fire till the soup boils. Then take off the fire and put in two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve immediately. Send fried bread cut into very small dice to table in a small glass dish to be handed with it. Pea Soup. Potage a la Puree de Pois. Soak a quart of split peas in a basin with cold water for twelve hours, then put two quarts of water and the split peas into a saucepan and put it on the fire to boil (the liquor meat has been boiled in is best). Take two onions and one turnip, wash them well, peel them and cut them in halves, wash and scrape a carrot, wash a head of celery and cut off the ends. When the water in the saucepan is boiling all the vegetables must be put in ; add two pennyworth of cooked bones, and season it with a teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of mignonette pepper. Let it boil slowly for two hours, skim it occasionally, pass it through a wire sieve, warm up and serve, stirring in a teaspoonful of made mustard. Dried powdered mint and fried bread cut into tiny dice should be handed with this soup.SOUPS A LA MODE, 28 Peasant’s Soup. Potage paysan. Take half a pound of onions, half a pound of carrots, half a pound of celery, three-quarters of a pound of split peas, a little finely shredded meat, a teaspoonful of coarse brown sugar, one small turnip, salt and pepper to taste, and four quarts of boiling water. Fry the vegetables for ten minutes in a little butter ; having cut them into very small pieces, pour the boiling water over them, add the peas, which should be soaked in water for some hours. These should boil to a mash, and then allowed to simmer for three hours till the peas are thoroughly done. Add then the sugar, seasoning and mint. Boil up for a quarter of an hour, and serve with fried bread sippets. Potato Soup. Potage a la Puree de Pommes de Terre. Wash one pound of potatoes, one onion, two leaves of celery, and cut them into thin slices. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and then put in the vegetables, and place it on the fire and let the vegetables cook for five minutes ; next add a pint and a half of stock, a little salt, and let all boil slowly till the vegetables are soft. Then rub the vegetables through a hair sieve. Put the soup back in the saucepan, add one gill of cream or half a pint of milk, and when hot it is ready to serve. Cut some crumb of bread into very small dice and fry them, and send them up to be handed with the soup.SOUPS A LA MODE. 29 Ravioli Soup k la Prince George. Puree Ravioli a la Prince George. Prepare the ravioli by mixing half a pound of flour, two raw eggs, and a little salt; roll it out as thin as paper ; then get ready two ounces of the flesh of roast chicken or game, one ounce of ham, three cleaned and pounded anchovies, one shalot, three hard and two raw yolks of eggs, one table- spoonful of cooked spinach, a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, a little pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix these all well together. Cut the rolled-out paste into rounds two inches in diameter with a fluted cutter, moisten the edges with water, and place small round balls of the forcemeat upon each round ; fold the pastry over the forcemeat and pinch it together, and place them on a floured baking-sheet to dry. Butter a saucepan, lay the ravioli in it, pour a little boiling stock over them, and let them poach till the pastry is done enough ; then drain them, and put them into the soup tureen, and pour over them some good strong game stock ; season with a glass of claret, and serve hot. A plateful of grated Parmesan cheese should be handed round with the soup. Sometimes the paste is lightly rubbed with garlic, but many object to this. Princess Soup. Puree k la Princesse. Take a chicken and cut it in pieces, put it in a buttered stewpan with a good-sized onion, a small30 SOUPS A LA MODE. bay-leaf, a little parsley, twelve white peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Keep the lid on whilst it is cooked over the fire for ten minutes, being careful it does not brown ; add two quarts of white stock, and let all gently simmer for an hour. Now put into a saucepan two ounces of butter, three ounces of best flour, and melt over fire. When well melted strain the liquor from the chicken into it, let it cook for a few minutes, add the juice of half a lemon and half a pint of cream. Take the best pieces of chicken from the bones, pound in the mortar, add this to the stock, and strain through a fine sieve. This soup must not boil after the chicken and cream are added. Rabbit Soup. Potage de Lapereaux. Place a skinned rabbit in lukewarm water for an hour. Drain, and put it into a stewpan with two quarts of white stock. Let all simmer till quite tender. Lift the rabbit out, and pick all the best meat from the bones. Bruise the latter and put them back into the broth with two carrots, two onions, four sticks of celery, a bouquet garni, a bay- leaf, a dozen peppercorns, and a teaspoonful of salt. Let all gently simmer for three hours. Then strain the liquor and let it stand to settle, so that it may be poured off free from sediment. Meantime mince the meat and pound it till per- fectly smooth, then put it aside. When the broth is cold, pour off the clear liquor free from sediment and boil it. Put the meat into a basin, moisten it gradually with the warm broth and rub the paste well with the back of a woodenSOUPS A LA MODE. 31 spoon to free it from lumps. Add this thickening to the broth, season with a little salt and cayenne, and pass it through a sieve. Put it into a clean saucepan, and when it boils stir into it three-quarters of a pint of cream which has been mixed with a tablespoonful of arrowroot. Let it boil up again and serve hot. Regent’s Soup. Soupe a la Regence. Take the bones, trimmings, and remains of cold game. Break them into small pieces, put them in a stewpan, and pour over them two quarts of stock. Add a large carrot, a large onion, a small turnip, and three heads of celery, all cut up small. Let the soup boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. Strain and remove the fat. Wash four ounces of pearl barley and boil it in a separate saucepan till it is done enough ; drain and put aside one-half Pound the other half with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard, rub the mixture through a fine sieve. Moisten with a gill of cream and add it gradually to the soup. Stir the whole over the fire until it is very hot without boiling; add the remaining barley, and serve immediately. It generally takes about three hours. Soup k la Royale. Consomme a la Royale. Scrape half a pound of lean beef, and cut up small one carrot, one turnip, and one onion. Take three pints of stock from which all the fat has been taken off, and put it into a stewpan, and add the meat and vegetables. Stir these ingredients overSOUPS A LA MODE. 32 the fire till just boiling. Then remove the spoon and let the soup boil up. Take a cloth and lay it on a hair sieve, having poured boiling water through it to warm it thoroughly ; then pour the soup on to the cloth and let it run through twice. Warm up the soup and it is ready to serve. Savoury custard should be sent up in this soup, made by beating three yolks of eggs and one white in a gill of stock, adding a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt; strain this mixture into a buttered gallipot, and steam the custard slowly for fifteen minutes. When the custard is set let it get cold. Then turn it out and cut it into small rounds or diamonds and serve in the soup, Scotch Broth. Potage Ecossais. Take some middle cutlets from neck of mutton ; trim them. Then take the trimmings and put them into a stewpan with some of the scrag, a small piece of knuckle of veal; moisten well with good boiling broth, and season with some sticks of celery, leeks, parsley, a very large onion stuck with two cloves, a few slices of turnip cut into dice, and one or two carrots also cut into dice. Let this broth boil gently three hours, season with salt and skim off the fat. When it becomes a good flavour drain it over the chops, which you must put in a large stewpan, large enough to contain the soup. Have some barley which has been boiling for a long time, and well-washed, and put it into the soup with the chops to boil for one hour. Skim before sending to table. Chop a little parsley very fine, and add just before serving it up.SOCrpS A LA MODE. 33 Spinach Soup. Puree Vertpre. Take two pounds of young spinach, and wash it very carefully, changing the water several times ; put it into a saucepan with as much water as will keep it from burning. Add a saltspoonful of salt, and turn it frequently till tender, and rub it through a coarse sieve ; take also half a pound of aspargus peas, half a pound of French beans, and half a pound of green peas. Cook these, and pass through the sieve ; then put all the vegetables together into a stewpan with four shalots, one small onion, a bouquet garni, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of caster sugar, and two ounces of butter mixed smooth with a tablespoonful of flour. Let these all simmer together, and then pour over it two quarts of vegetable or white unseasoned stock in which two ounces of prepared tapioca has been put ; add some of Breton’s green colouring) be careful not to put in too much or it will look too dark), and let all simmer up together; and when off the fire add half a pint of cream. Fried croutons cut into the shape of very small dice should be sent up with this soup. This soup should be of the consistence of cream. • Spring Soup. Potage Printanier. Take two pounds of shin of beef, and two pounds of knuckle of veal. Cut off all the meat DSOUPS A LA MODE. 34 from the bone and the fat from the meat; break the bones in half and take out all the marrow from them, the marrow being put aside for other purposes. Put the meat and bones into a stockpot and pour in five pints of cold water ; put in a teaspoon- ful of salt to assist the scum to rise, place the stockpot on the fire with the lid on, and let it come to the boil quickly. Skim the scum off constantly, then draw the stockpot rather to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for five or six hours. Now scrape two young carrots, peel a turnip and cut it into slices, take half a head of celery, one leek and one onion ; wash them well and cut them in squares. Take one cauliflower, wash it in cold water and squeeze it dry in a cloth, cut off all the green leaves and the stalk, and pull the flower into sprigs ; watch and skim the soup, and add now and then a little cold water to make the scum rise. One hour before serving the soup the vegetables are added, putting in the carrots, celery, and leek first. In half an hour add turnip, and a quarter of an hour after that the flower of the cauliflower. Take a saucepan full of hot water and put it on the fire to boil, and when the water quite boils put in a quarter pint of shelled peas, a teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of carbonate of soda, and let all boil with the cover of the saucepan off from fifteen to twenty minutes. Now feel if the peas are soft; take them out and drain them in a colander, and put them into the hot soup tureen, and ladle the soup and other vegetables from the stockpot to the tureen. A piece of sugar in the soup is a great improvement.SOVPS A LA MODE. 35 Tapioca Soup a la Crfeme. Potage au Tapioca a la Creme. Put one pint of white stock on to boil in a stew- pan ; then take one ounce of prepared crushed tapioca, and when the stock boils stir it in gradu- ally, after which move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it all simmer till the tapioca is quite clear. Then put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, add to them two tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir it with a wooden spoon, and then strain the mixture into another basin. Now take the stew- pan with the stock off the fire and let it cool; when cool add by degrees two or three tablespoonfuls of the egg liaison^ stirring well all the time, being very careful the eggs do not curdle ; after which add this mixture to the rest of the stock, stirring well and put in pepper and salt to taste. Tomato Soup. Soupe a I’Americaine. First make half a pint of tomato sauce. Melt one ounce of butter in a saute pan and one rasher of bacon ; add one carrot and a piece of onion cut small, also ten peppercorns, two bay-leaves, and a trifle of cayenne; cook this over a fire without burning, or it will spoil the colour. When cooked add the tomatoes from a two pound tin, stir these ingredients well, and let them boil till they thicken ; when boiled rub through a sieve; add very little salt. Have ready about three-quarters of a pint of boiling stock, into which put a dessertspoonful of crushed tapioca, which must be sprinkled into theSOUPS A LA MODE 36 stock a little at a time; then add the tomato sauce and bring it to the boil, but it must not be allowed to boil. Turnip Soup k rimperiale. Potage Nivernais a rimperiale. Slice five turnips and three onions, and place them in a stewpan with a little butter for half an hour; then add some stock, a little salt and pepper, and let all simmer together for two hours ; then add a piece of crumb of bread and pass through a sieve; just before serving pour in half a pint of boiling milk, and send up to table quickly. Clear Turtle Soup. Tortue Claire. Take half a pound of sun-dried turtle, and let it soak for four days in lukewarm water, chang- ing the water every twelve hours. Whilst the soaking process is going on, keep the basin con- taining the turtle in a warm place, and let it stand in a cool oven at night. When the meat is swollen and comparatively soft, cut it into neat pieces of about two inches square, and let it boil gently for twelve hours in good clear stock, into which should be put a slice of lean ham, two onions, a bay leaf, a head of celery, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, and some turtle herbs, which are best bought ready prepared, three cloves, and a small pinch of cayenne. The soup must simmer very gently, the scum being removed as it rises. When the soup has been re- duced to two quarts, strain carefully and remove every bit of the fat. Have a pound and a half of37 SOUPS A LA MODE. fresh eels, cut them into pieces two inches long, and boil these in the stock. When tender lift them out and strain the stock again, and clear with white of egg in the usual way. Add a claret glassful of good sherry, and a few drops of lemon juice, and the pieces of turtle flesh, which should have been boiled up in stock till tender, and a little turtle fat, which can be bought in tins. Cayenne and lemons cut in quarters must be handed round with this soup. Vegetable Marrow Soup. Potage la Courge de Moelle. Pare and cut in quarters a large vegetable marrow and remove the seeds from it. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stewpan and put in the marrow, with a little pepper, salt, and a large lump of sugar and a very small grate of nutmeg. Toss it over the fire for a few minutes, and moisten with as much white seconds stock as will cover it. Let it stew gently till tender, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put then with it as much boiling stock as will make it of the consistency of cream, add a cupful of boiling cream or milk, and season with a little pepper, salt, and a tiny dust of cayenne ; stir over the fire till quite hot, and serve with fried bread cut into the shape of small dice. Victor Emanuel Soup. Potage a la Victor Emanuel. Take a quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni and throw it into a quart of seconds white stock with a tablespoonful of suet in it; add a little38 SOUPS A LA MODE. pepper ; boil for twenty minutes. As soon as the macaroni gets double its size, throw some cold water into the saucepan and take it off the fire. Have ready grated three ounces of Parmesan or Gruyere cheese; take half a tin of tomatoes (or four English ripe ones), and cook these in about an ounce of butter in a little stewpan separately. Put this mixture at the bottom of the tureen, and pour the boiling soup with the macaroni over it..39 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Brill a la Conte. Barbue a la Conte. Skin and clean a fresh brill, cut several slits down the back, simmer over a slow fire till cooked in a tumblerful of olive oil, half a tumbler of stock, the same quantity of chablis or sauterne, a little salt, pepper, and a bouquet garni; drain and dish up. For the sauce have two tumblersful of stock reduced to half that quantity, season with a pinch of finely-chopped parsley, and pour over the brill. Brill a la Proven9ale. Barbue a la Provenjale. Soak a brill in oil for an hour, fry it, and when done, fillet it and serve en couronne, gar- nished with stuffed olives in the centre and anchovy sauce around. Brill a la Ravigote. Barbue a la Ravigote. Score a small brill down the back, season with salt and pepper, wrap it up in buttered paper, and bake it in the oven ; send it up hot.40 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Make a mayonnaise sauce, adding tarragon, chervil, mustard, cayenne, and a little spinach greening ; mix all together, and serve in a tureen. Carp a la Russe. Carpe a la Russe. Sprinkle a carp with flour and place it in a saucepan thickly lined with butter ; pour over it a pint of chablis or sauterne, and cook it in the oven with hot coals on the lid ; when done, make a foundation of pickled cabbage warmed in butter, and lay the carp on it, and garnish with glazed onions, mushrooms, sliced gherkins, and hand round horse-radish sauce with it. Cod k la Garonne. Morue a la Garonne. Put into a stewpan some pieces of cold cod with a small bit of butter, two tablespoonfuls of oil, some capers, anchovies, parsley, and green onions, all chopped very fine ; pepper and salt to taste. Stir all together well till the oil and butter are well mixed ; then put into a dish, sprinkle over with fine breadcrumbs, salamander the top, and serve. Cod Roes in Tomato Sauce. Laitances de Morue aux Tomates. Take one or two cod roes, wash well, be careful not to break them. Boil till quite soft, drain from the water, and when cold cut into slices about half an inch thick. Take one ounce of butter, warmDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 41 it over the fire in a small stewpan, stir into it the yolks of two eggs beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and two dessertspoonfuls of tomato sauce ; mix well, and stir over the fire to thicken. Put in the slices of roe, let them soak for a few minutes. Have some slices of toast ready, put the cod’s roe on them, pour the sauce over, and put in the oven for a few minutes and serve hot. Conger-eel a la Pecheur. Anguille Congre a la Pecheur. Take the middle of a conger-eel weighing about two pounds, and stuff it with a good veal stuffing. Bind the fish securely with tape, and put it into a deep dish half filled with water. Dredge flour plen- tifully over it, place little lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a good oven. Baste it often. When sufficiently cooked, take it out, thicken the gravy into a good brown sauce. Stewed tomatoes are very good served with it. Stuffed Cod. Cabillaud farci. Choose a thick cod’s-tail, boil it in ^ court- bouillon ; when done, cut off the under fillets and lay on a cloth. Make some fish forcemeat, with either whiting or fresh-water fish; cut all the small bones off the centre bone of the tail with a pair of scissors, cover with a layer of forcemeat, lay the fillets in their original position, wrap all up in a buttered sheet of paper after sprinkling the cod ' See under Sauces.42 DRESSED EISH A LA MODE. with breadcrumbs, brown in the oven, and dish up with stewed roe, made by cooking the roe in a saucepan with butter, crayfish tails, chopped parsley, chives, and some bottoms of artichokes; when done, thicken the same with yolks of eggs, flavour with a few drops of vinegar, and serve. Eel a la Bordelaise. Anguilles a la Bordelaise. Wash and clean the eel, split it in two, remove the backbone, and boil in vin de Grave flavoured with salt, pepper, parsley, and slices of onion ; when cooked place the fish between two cloths, press with a heavy weight till quite flat, cut it into fillets and warm in some white wine sauce which has been reduced and thickened with fish glaze; when quite hot, dish up the fillets in a pyramid, and cover with its own sauce. Garnish with small white onions glazed. Collared Eels. Anguilles en Forme. Clean and boil the eels in water highly seasoned with pepper, salt, an onion, bay-leaf, a clove, and a little vinegar. When the eels are done enough slip out the bones and cut them up into pieces about two inches long. Take the liquor in which the fish is boiled, strain it, let it boil in the stew- pan without the lid, skimming it till it becomes clear. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine to each half-pint of the fish gravy, and boil to- gether for a minute ; let it stand till cool. Arrange the pieces of eel tastefully in a plain mould, with small sprigs of curled parsley, andDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 43 slices of hard-boiled eggs, and a fillet or two of anchovies cut up into dice. When all the fish is thus arranged in the mould, pour the jelly in very gently, a tablespoonful at a time, in order not to disturb the solid material. Let the mould stand on ice (or in cold water for seven or eight hours), when it can be turned out. Ornament with parsley, lemon, and beetroot. Matelote of Eels. Anguilles en Matelote. Take a couple of skinned eels, cut into pieces, dip in flour, and fry them a light brown in butter. Melt four ounces of butter, mixing with it a table- spoonful of flour ; add half a pint of stock and the same quantity of Burgundy, a small bundle of herbs, two shalots, pepper, salt, and cloves to taste. Boil this sauce for a quarter of an hour, strain it over the eels in a saucepan with a few button mushrooms, and let the whole stew gently for half an hour. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve very hot. Eel Pout a I’ltalienne. Lottes a I’ltalienne. Fry the eel pout and dish them up covered with the following sauce. Take a small parsnip, a young carrot, two sliced onions, a bead of garlic, a bay-leaf, and three cloves ; warm in butter, and moisten with three-quarters of a pint of champagne and a little stock ; simmer for an hour, pass through a tammy, skim off all grease, and reduce the sauce if too thin. Season with a pounded anchovy, some chopped capers, salt, and black pepper.44 DRESSED DISH A LA MODE. Eel Pout a la Parisienne. Lottes a la Parisienne. Boil the eel pout in mirepoix sauce {see Sauces, ‘ Entrees a la Mode ’), and serve covered with oyster sauce, to which have been added the livers chopped very fine. Eel a la Poulette. Anguille a la Poulette. Skin the eel, cut off its head and tail, and cut it into joints of equal length and thickness ; wash them thoroughly. Put these pieces and some button mushrooms into a stewpan, in which some butter has been melted ; let these fry ; occasionally dredge them with some browned flour. Mix some thin stock and chablis wine together, and stir in till it boils ; then season with pepper, salt, fine herbs, and a Spanish onion finely minced. Let all stew till the eel is tender ; skim off all fat, take the stew off the fire, and then stir in the yolk of two eggs and a teaspoonful of lemon. Serve with sippets of toast and cut lemon as garnish. Eel Pout a la Prussienne. Lottes ^ la Prussienne. Warm a slice of ham in a stewpan and leave until the fat begins to melt; moisten with two tumblerfuls of Saumur, a cupful of brown thickening, the same quantity of strong gravy, a wineglassful of olive oil, a bouquet of parsley, chives, a bay-leaf, and a sliced45 DRESSED EISH A LA MODE. onion ; boil for an hour and pass through a tammy. Sprinkle the eel pout with salt and pepper, and cook in this sauce; when done, remove the pout, reduce the sauce, and pour over the fish. Eel k la Tartare. Anguilles a la Tartare. Brown some chopped carrots, onions, and a bouquet of mixed herbs in butter; sprinkle with flour and moisten with white wine ; cook for half an hour and pass through a tammy. Skin the eel, roll it round into a spiral shape, and cook in the sauce. When done place it on a dish and leave till cold, after which dip into beaten yolks of egg, breadcrumb it, and broil over a slow fire ; hold hot coals over the eel so as to save turning it. Serve on a round dish with either anchovy butter, or remou- lade sauce. Eels a la Suffren. Anguilles a la Suffren. When the eel is skinned, it must be larded with fillets of anchovies and gherkins ; lay it in a circle in a stewpan, and cook with marinade sauce. Put hot coals on the cover of the stewpan ; when done, serve covered with tomato sauce, to which add a dust of cayenne pepper. Flounders au Gratin. Carrelets au gratin. Cut up parsley, shalot, and small button mush- rooms very finely. P'ry them in butter with a sea-46 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. soning of salt and pepper. Cover the bottom of a flat tin baking dish, previously buttered, with the herbs, and lay on them a flounder neatly trimmed. Strew breadcrumbs thickly over, and bits of butter on the top of all; moisten with white wine ; cook ; crisp the top with a salamander. Serve very hot, and with a squeeze of lemon over the dish. Fillets of Gurnet with Tomato Sauce. Filets de Grondins aux Tomates. Take some fillets of gurnet, cut them up into scallops half an inch thick, and trim them all to the same size. Toss over a quick fire in a saucepan with butter, salt, and mignonette pepper; when done, drain and place round a dish ; fill the centre with tomato sauce, and serve. Fillets of Haddock h la Gdnoise. Filets de Merluche a la Genoise. Take a good-sized haddock, fillet it, and leave the skin on the fish ; cut in pieces diamond shape, and lay them on a buttered baking tin and cover them with little dabs of butter, and coat them with a sauce made of one ounce of butter, two or three mushrooms, and a piece of lean ham chopped small, one bay-leaf, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, which have boiled together for five minutes; then add two tablespoonfuls of claret, and cook all well together, and when it is glazing put in a dessert- spoonful of flour add a little fish-stock, minced truffles, and lemon-juice.47 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Smoked Herrings a la Bruxellaise. Harengs fumes k la Bruxellaise. Hold kippered herrings over hot steam, after which skin and fillet them ; oil a large round paper case, and place the fillets inside in a circle ; stir some chopped mushrooms, parsley, mixed herbs, chives, shalots, a little garlic and white pepper into a large lump of butter, spread a layer of this stuffing between each fillet, sprinkle with olive oil and grated bread crust; broil on the gridiron over a quick fire, and when done dish up in the case and serve with quarters of lemon handed round. Herrings a la Mariniere. Harengs a la Mariniere. Choose herrings with roes, split them open, wash, scrape, cut off the heads and take out the roes ; then with the thumb and finger of the right hand draw the backbones out, sprinkle well with pepper and salt, and some finely-chopped parsley; roll up tightly from the head. Have ready some boiling water seasoned with pepper, salt and vinegar; put in the herrings, simmer about twelve and a half minutes, cut the roes into pieces and fry nicely ; place the herrings on buttered toast, add the roes, and serve. Garnish with watercress. Rolled Herrings to Eat Cold. Proceed as in the last, but omit the chopped parsley and roll the roes up with the fish ; put the fish into a pie dish. Mix a gill of water, about half48 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. that quantity of vinegar, salt, pepper, two cloves, one bay-leaf; pour this over the herrings, cover the dish and place it in a moderate oven for a couple of hours. Serve cold with a little of the liquor on the dish. John Dory en Matelote. Dorade en Matelote. Chop small a dozen oysters and mix them thoroughly with three boned anchovies also finely minced, a tablespoonful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, and three ounces of butter. Mix all tho- roughly, add pepper and salt to taste, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and eight tablespoonfuls or new milk. Put all into a stewpan, stir briskly over a gentle fire till the mixture thickens, then fill the dory with the forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Put the fish into a stewpan barely covered with cold water, and put with it a turnip, a carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, a sprig of parsley, a gill of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of bruised celery-seed, and a dessert-spoonful of salt. Boil gently till the fish is cooked. Send the following sauce in a tureen with it. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan ; fry in this three small onions sliced very thin, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, another of chives, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of claret, and a glass of the liquid in which the fish was boiled. Stew gently for a few minutes till the onions are done. When strained add half a pint of good brown sauce. Boil till sauce coats the spoon ; add a few drops of essence of anchovy and the juice of half a lemon.49 DRESSED EISH A LA MODE. Gratin of Lobster. Homard au Gratin. Take the meat from a good-sized lobster, cut the body in half and pick out all the meat, which cut into thin slices. Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, with two shalots finely minced. Brown them lightly, then mix in a tablespoonful of flour, and when quite smooth half a pint of milk ; boil for five minutes ; put in the sliced lobster, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt and cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. Stir all over the fire, and when boiling draw the saucepan back and add the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Fill the shell of the lobster with the mixture, sprinkle breadcrumbs over it, and pour on a little clarified butter. Put the shell in a hot oven for twenty minutes, dish on a napkin, and serve. Mayonnaise of Lobster. Mayonnaise de Homard. Take out the meat of a freshly-boiled hen lobster, and cut it into small neat pieces. Trim and wash two large fresh lettuces, taking care they are quite dry before being used. Tear these into neat pieces and arrange a layer of them at the bottom of a dish ; place several pieces of lobster on them, and repeat until the materials are finished. Just before serving pour over them a sauce made as follows. Beat the yolks of two raw eggs for two or three minutes until they begin to feel thick ; add by drops at first, ten tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and two of plain vinegar and one of tarragon vinegar. E50 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. The mixture should be as thick and smooth as cream. Season the sauce with half a teaspoonful of dry- mustard, half a saltspoonful of salt, and half a salt- spoonful of white pepper ; cover the salad with this sauce and sprinkle over all the lobster coral, which has been powdered and well sifted. Garnish the dish with slices of cucumber, beetroot, and hard-boiled eggs. Miroton of Lobster. Miroton de Homard. Soak the crumb of a penny roll till it is quite soft in as much cream as will just cover it. Pick all the meat from a medium-sized hen lobster, pound it well with its spawn thoroughly in a mortar, and mix with it the soaked crumb and the well- beaten yolks of three fresh eggs ; season with pepper and salt. Just before boiling this mixture add a whole egg which has been well whisked. Line a plain round mould with some thin slices of ham, fat and lean together, pour in the mixture, and boil until it is done enough. Send lobster sauce to table with it. Mackerel a la Colchester. Maquereau a la Colchester. Make a seasoning of breadcrumbs, oysters, a little of their liquor, parsley, one onion, two cloves, pepper and salt to taste ; the parsley and onion must be chopped very fine and the cloves pounded. Work to a paste with a little butter, and fill the in- side of a mackerel. Sew up neatly and roast before the fire, basting with butter till done.DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 51 Orlys of Fillets of Mackerel. Filets de Maquereau en Orlys. Take the fillets of three mackerel, cut them lengthwise in three pieces, put them in a deep dish with some salad oil, sliced onions, sprigs of parsley, salt and pepper. Let the fish soak in this for half an hour ; then drain the pieces on a cloth, dip them in frying batter, and fry them in hot fat; drain and pile the pieces of mackerel on a napkin or silver drainer, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. Plaice ^ rOrly. Pile a I’Orly. Fillet the plaice, cut each fillet into two or three according to size, then marinade them by placing them in a well-buttered stewpan with a carrot, bay-leaf, two sprigs of parsley, a chopped onion, a sliced tomato, a grate of nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a cupful of fish stock or water; let it lie in this mixture for half an hour in the oven, then dry and dip them into well-beaten white of egg, then into finely-baked breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified dripping and serve with ravigote sauce, which is made with white sauce to which chopped herbs, chervil, tarragon, and parsley, pre- viously tossed in a little vinegar and butter, have been added. Plaice with Parmesan Cheese. Plie au Parmesan. Lay some marinaded fillets in a well-buttered baking-tin, add a very little water and a squeeze52 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. of lemon-juice on each fillet; cover with buttered paper and bake gently for twelve and a half minutes. Boil the bones and trimmings in a little water with an onion stuck with cloves and peppercorns, and three sprigs of parsley. Let all simmer to- gether for nearly an hour ; skim, and then stir in over the fire two ounces of flour and two ounces of butter, mix in gradually half a pint of the fish stock and gravy from the fillets. Let all boil up, stirring all the time; then add a tablespoonful or two of milk and a teaspoonful of anchovy, and pass all through a fine strainer. Cover the fillets with this gravy, and sprinkle thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Salamander and serve quickly. Fillets of Plaice k la Vatel. Fillets de Plie a la Vatel. Skin and fillet the plaice, and put the bones and fins into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and let it boil. Fold the fillets in halves, and put them into a buttered pan with a bit of butter on each, and the juice of a lemon squeezed over all. Put buttered paper, and let them cook in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. Melt an ounce of butter and a heaped up tablespoonful of flour, and cook well over the fire; add a gill of the fish stock, and let it boil up; add a little salt, pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of good tomato puree in which the yolk of an egg has been stirred. Arrange the fillets in a circle and pour the sauce over them. Take some boned anchovies and gherkins, cut them into thin strips, and place them on each fillet in trellis-work fashion.DRESSED FJSH A LA MODE. 53 Red Mullet ^ I’ltalienne. Rougets a I’ltalienne. Wrap the fish in buttered paper, retaining the tail, and bake them in the oven, dishing them up in the buttered paper. Send the following sauce in a tureen. One chopped shalot, one chopped mush- room, some chopped fine herbs mixed in a brown sauce, into which put a glass of chablis or sauterne. Red Mullet in Cases. Rouget en Caisses. Do not clean the inside of the mullet, but take out the livers and replace them with some salted butter and finely-chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little garlic; place them on the gridiron with red-hot coals underneath, and hold a sala- mander over them—this prevents having to turn the fish. When cooked squeeze the juice of a lemon over the mullet. Red Mullet a la Mdtropole. Rougets a la Metropole. Make a sauce of three glassfuls of hock and sherry mixed (hock predominating); slice thinly a small carrot and turnip and half a lemon ; add a bay-leaf, a grate of nutmeg, a sprig of thyme and parsley. Lay in three red mullets and stewover a slow fire ; strain the gravy, thicken with butter rolled in flour, season with pepper and salt, and serve the fish on a very hot dish with the sauce poured over.DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 54 Red Mullet with Tomatoes. Rougets aux Tomates. Butter a baking-dish plentifully, and lay in it side by side four red mullets ; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then pour over them six tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce; cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper and bake for about half an hour. Salmon Cutlets Broiled. Cotelettes de Saumon Grillees. Leave the skin on thick slices of salmon from the middle, dip them in clarified butter, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, lay them on a hot gridiron, and broil gently over a clear fire ; turn them over every three or four minutes till they are done. Make a sauce as follows. Take a quarter of a pint of good gravy and mix with it a teaspoon- ful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, half a teaspoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and a tea- spoonful of finely-mixed pickles. Boil the sauce, thicken with a little flour, and serve. Fillets of Salmon aux Concombres. Filets de Saumon aux'Concombres. Take a piece of salmon about two pounds, and cut it into eight slices or fillets; remove the skin, season with pepper and salt and a squeeze of lemon over each, and put them into a stewpan with enough fish stock to cover them, and let them cook for about a quarter of an hour. When done take them up and dish them with cucumber round.55 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. which should be dressed by cutting the cucumber into thin strips in Julienne fashion, and cooked in boiling water till tender; then strain and mix in a little warm clear butter, a sprinkling of chopped tarragon and chervil, and a few drops of lemon- juice. This should be placed round like a wreath, and chopped aspic on the top of the fillets, as it is a cold entree or luncheon dish. Beignets de Saumon. Salmon Fritters. Take some flakes of cold salmon, shake pepper, salt, and chopped parsley over them ; make a batter with two large tablespoonfuls of flour, one beaten egg, add enough milk or cream to bring it to the consistency of thick cream. Dip in each piece of salmon and drop it immediately into boiling butter. Fry a nice brown, drain, and serve on cut paper garnished with cucumber. Salmon a ITnde. Saumon k I’Inde. Take slices of salmon, boil, and send it up to table covered with a rich brown mushroom sauce, with a tablespoonful of chutnee in it. Salmon Marinade. Saumon en Marinade. Boil three thick slices from the tail end of a large salmon. When done enough, drain the fish, put it upon a dish without a napkin, and pour overDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 56 and around it the following sauce. Put three- quarters of a pint of thick brown sauce into a stewpan, with eighteen button onions which have been fried in butter till brown. Let them boil for ten minutes, and add two glassfuls of claret, a small lump of sugar, a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is thick and coats the spoon. After it is taken from the fire, stir in a small piece of fresh butter until it is dissolved. Mushrooms or oysters may be added to this sauce if liked. Mayonnaise de Saumon Superlative. Superlative Salmon Mayonnaise. Put into a stewpan a small salmon weighing about five pounds, let it boil with a moderate-sized carrot sliced, four shalots, a handful of parsley, sprigs of thyme, chervil, a bay-leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, and a slice of fresh butter. Steam the in- gredients for four or five minutes, then pour in as much boiling water as will barely cover the fish, and add two glassfuls of light wine, and let it boil up quickly ; skim the liquor, then draw the sauce- pan back a little and simmer the fish gently till it is done ; drain, and leave till cold, then dish it on a napkin, garnish round with small salad and crayfish, and stick prawns and parsley into the salmon with silver skewers. Send mayonnaise sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Mdtropole. Saumon ^ la Metropole. Trim a pound of salmon into neat fillets, dry these, dip them in flour, partially fry them, and putDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 57 them on a sieve to drain. Dissolve three ounces ot butter in a saucepan. Mix smoothly with a table- spoonful of flour, and add one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of powdered thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mix- ture over the fire for five minutes, add a glassful of Marsala, and put into the sauce the half-fried fillets. Let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Lift the fish out with a slice, and place it on a hot dish. Let the sauce cool for two minutes, then stir into it two well-beaten yolks of eggs, then whisk over the fire for two minutes till it thickens, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with fried sippets. Fillets of Salmon k la SuMe. Remove all bone and skin from a piece of salmon—say a pound—and shape it into little cutlets; flatten them with the cutlet bat, and season with pepper and salt. Take some paper and cut it into neat square pieces, butter each paper well, then lay on each a fillet of salmon, on which pour a dessertspoonful of clear melted butter. Put a tablespoonful of tomato sauce with a few drops of mushroom ketchup added to it over the fillets, and fold the fillets neatly with the papers, and put them in a greased tin in the oven for ten minutes ; then dish them up in their paper cases in a circle, and garnish with slices of cucumber and sprigs of tarragon and chervil, placed in little bunches at equal distances. A trellis-work of strips of beet- root can be placed as an outer garnish on the border of the dish.58 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Boiled Salt Fish a la Moderne. Morue bouillie a la Moderne. Soak the fish in cold water for thirty-six hours, changing the water four times. Put the fish to soak flesh downwards. This done, cut the fish into neat fillets, and boil them slowly in milk and water, skimming carefully. When cooked, arrange the fillets in a circle round the dish; mask each fillet with egg sauce; fill up the centre with egg sauce ; and garnish round the fillets with a wreath of parsnips which have been boiled in butter and water, and then cut into very thin strips of two inches long. Tammy a hard boiled yolk of egg, and sprinkle it all over the parsnips, and sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley in little tufts here and there over all ; garnish with egg balls and quarters of lemon. A puree of parsnips made with cream can be handed with it, or egg sauce flavoured with lemon. Sole ^ I’Aurore. Butter a tin dish and lay on it a sole, covering it with buttered paper ; place it for ten minutes in the oven, take it out and carefully remove the centre bone, strew a little chopped onion and parsley, and replace the upper fillets and pour over a white sauce and return it to the oven. Boil some eggs hard, take the white and cut in fancy shapes, and pass the yolks through a sieve and sprinkle over the top of the fish ; garnish the side with the fancy shapes of the white.' DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 59 Sole k rAmdricaine. Sole a I’Americaine. This dish is cooked exactly like Sole a la Nor- mande, only that it is stuffed with a tomato force- meat, and served with either tomato or brown mushroom sauce. Soles in Cases. Soles en Caisses. Take two parts finely-minced mushrooms, one part shalots and parsley in equal proportions, also finely minced ; toss them in butter for a few minutes, adding pepper and salt to taste. Put this mixture aside ; when cold spread a thin layer on each fillet, roll them up, and cook them between two buttered plates in the oven. Have ready some white fireproof or paper cases, place one rolled fillet in each, then fill up the case with white sauce and place a button mushroom on the top of each, and keep quite hot till time for serving. Small tomatoes can be used instead of the mhshrooms. The sauce should be made of the usual white sauce with a few button mushrooms in it; then let it boil for ten minutes and stir in, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon. Fillets of Soles en Aspic. Filets de Soles en Aspic. Take two pounds of lean beefsteak and cut it into dice, put it on in two quarts of cold water, and6o DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. as soon as it boils take off the scum as it rises. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, then add four onions, a turnip, carrot, a bouquet garni, half a dozen white peppercorns, and when it has again boiled for an hour, strain it through a nap- kin. Let it stand until cold, remove all the fat, boil it up, and to a quart of the liquor put an ounce of gelatine previously soaked in a gill of cold water Add salt and a dust of cayenne pepper, and when the jelly cools, stir in the whites and shells of two eggs well beaten. Let the jelly boil briskly for two minutes ; let it stand by the side of the fire, then strain through a jelly-bag, when it will be quite clear. A little sherry and tarragon vinegar can then be added. Take some fillets of sole and boil them gently in salted water, with a little vinegar, till done ; take them up and dry them on a cloth. Have ready some picked parsley and hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters; arrange these neatly at the bottom of a plain mould, so as to form a pretty pattern. Pour in very gently enough jelly to cover the first layer, let it stand till beginning to set, then put in another layer of fish, eggs, and parsley, then more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. Put mould on ice and turn out; garnish with parsley, beetroot, and cut lemon. Fillets of Soles a la Bohdmienne. Filets de Soles a la Bohanienne. Fillet two soles, fold them over, put them on a buttered tin, and cover them with buttered paper to prevent burning, and cook in the oven. Melt three-quarters of an ounce of butterina stewpan, addDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 6i one ounce of flour and one gill of fish stock made from the bones ; when well cooked add half a gill of cream, a little salt, cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Chop up two truffles and two hard- boiled eggs and a tablespoonful of parsley very finely; pound a tablespoonful of lobster coral in the mortar, and pass through hair sieve. Then arrange the soles on a dish ; pour the sauce over, ornament each fillet thus—one with truffles, one with eggs, one with lobster coral, another with parsley alternately. Fillets of Soles k la Cadiz. Filets de Soles a la Cadiz. Take some fillets of sole, season them lightly with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice ; roll each fillet on a piece of carrot the size of a cork, and tie it in buttered paper. Cook them in a little Chablis or Saumur in a covered pan in the oven for a quarter of an hour; when the fillets are cold remove the carrot and stuff them with lobster force- meat made thus. Put two shalots in half a pint of milk ; when cold mix with it an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter which have been slightly fried, add some coral or spawn, and boil up ; then add the yolks of two eggs, a dust of cayenne, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence; stir till it thickens, but it must not boil; pass it through sieve ; add some lobster chopped fine with a little chopped parsley. When the fillets are filled, dip them in butter and fry a pale colour, and serve with a very sharp tomato sauce.DRESSED EISH A LA MODE. 62 Fillets of Sole k rAmphytrion. Take eight moderate-sized fillets of sole and spread them with Fourrier and Cunningham’s an- chovy paste ; fold them over, and put them in a saute pan with the bones of the fish, a little water, salt, a bouquet garni, and a chopped shalot; squeeze lemon juice over ; place buttered paper over them, and cook for ten minutes. Dish the fillets en couronne, serve with Cardinal sauce, and garnish with mushroom and tomato balls, and balls of shrimp and cucumber ; sprinkle grated hard boiled egg and dried parsley over each fillet. Fillets of Soles with Crayfish and Truffles k la Joinville. Filets de Soles k la Joinville. Trim eight fillets of soles, fold them in two, and fix a crayfish claw in the top of each fillet. Put the fillets in a buttered saute pan and cover them with a round of buttered paper, cook them, and dish them in a circle; fill up the centre with pickled prawns and slices of truffles; pour some Dutch sauce, in which some crayfish butter has been stirred, over the garnish, but not over the fillets. Fillets of Sole k la Ddesse. Filets de Sole a la Deesse. Bat the fillets of sole and then put them in a fireproof china dish well buttered; season them with a little salt and white pepper, and squeeze the juice of a small lemon over them ; add a wine-glass63 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. of chablis and a very small shalot; put a well- buttered paper over and stand the dish in the oven for about ten to fifteen minutes ; drain away any moisture into a basin and arrange the fillets length- wise in the same dish, and decorate each fillet alternately with chopped parsley, chopped truffle and lobster coral, and pour a sauce round made of the drainings in the basin, the fish bones—which have been simmered with an onion—a bouquet garni, and some peppercorns, with the juice of half a lemon, and added to it an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour fried together. When all these are properly mixed and cooked, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese should be added, a dust of cayenne and a few drops of cochineal; then boil up again and strain. Fillets of Sole a la Maitre d’Hdtel. Filets de Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel. Put the bones and fins of the sole into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water, and let it boil. Fold the fillets and put them on a greased tin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze lemon-juice over them ; cover with a buttered paper and place in a moderate oven for about six minutes. Melt in a stewpan an ounce of butter, and add three-quarters of an ounce of flour and mix well; pour in the fish stock and boil for five minutes. Now add a little salt and pepper, half a gill of cream, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Arrange the fillets in a circle and pour the sauce over them.DRESSED E'lSH A LA MODE. 64 Fillets of Sole ^ I’Orly. Filets de Sole a I’Orly, Steep the fillets for an hour in lemon-juice, pepper, salt, parsley, and slices of onion ; then drain and dry the fillets. Fry the fillets in butter ; serve on silver drainer, and send tomato pur6e to hand round in a sauce boat. Fillets of Soles with Oysters. Filets de Soles aux Huitres. Take eight fillets of soles as directed in last recipe, cook them, and dish them round a crou- stade filled with oysters mixed in lemon sauce. Fillets of Soles with Prawns. Filets de Soles aux Crevettes. Dress them as in preceding recipe, and dish them round a croustade filled with pickled prawns. Pour over all some Dutch sauce in which some shrimp butter has been stirred. Fillets of Sole k la Rothschild. Filets de Sole k la Rothschild. Season some fillets of sole with lemon-juice, pepper and salt; cut each fillet in half, cut some carrots into the shape of wine-corks, and roll each fillet round one of these and tie them up in buttered paper. Put these rolls in a stewpan with a gill otDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 65 chablis or sauterne, and about half a pint of fish stock ; add a dust of salt, and let these cook for between fifteen and twenty minutes, then take them out and remove the carrots. Make a farce with a piece of butter size of a walnut, a teaspoonful of flour; mix it with a little stock in which the fish was cooked, a tablespoonful of whipped cream ; stir this in a stewpan till it boils ; add some pounded lobster spawn which has been pounded with butter; let this all boil again, keeping it well stirred. Mix in the yolk of an egg and pass through a sieve, then add a few minced prawns or oysters, and mix well. Stuff the soles with this mixture. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a pale colour; garnish with crayfish and fried parsley. Tomato or oyster sauce should be handed with this dish. Fillets of Sole en Turban. Soles en Turban. Cut a piece of crumb of bread into the shape of a small sugar-loaf, place in the centre of a tin dish with the narrowest part downwards ; cover with slices of bacon, spread a layer of forcemeat over them, and stick on the fillets of sole in such a way as to form the shape of a turban; garnish with small rounds of truffles, moisten with white sauce, flavour with lemon-juice, and cover with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper. Bake, and when done, remove the paper, slices of bacon, and the piece of bread from the centre, and fill the hole with tomato sauce. F66 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Sole au Gratin. Skin a sole, cut off the fins and nick it with a knife on both sides. Dry it well; chop up one teaspoonful of parsley, half a shalot, and four mushrooms, and mix them well together. Butter a dish, sprinkle half the chopped mushrooms and shalot on the dish. Lay the sole on this, and sprinkle the rest of the parsley etc. over. Squeeze over a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and then shake over some breadcrumbs that have been previously browned in the oven. Lay the butter in little bits here and there on the fish, and then put it in a moderate oven and bake it about ten minutes. Melt two tablespoonfuls of glaze, and pour it round as sauce. Sole k TApidus. Take a large sole, skin it, and remove the gills, and clean the inside, wash and wipe it; cut off the head and tail; on the side which has been skinned take a knife and make an incision a quarter of an inch deep down each side of the backbone, and remove it; cut off the fins. Butter a dish on which the fish is to be served, and put in the sole, having stuffed it first with a puree of onion, celery, and mushroom, made by peeling the mush- rooms and mincing them fine with the celery and onion. Make a sauce of the liquor of the fish bones boiled down, a piece of a lemon, some parsley, pepper, and salt, and a good tablespoonful of fine herbs, one ounce of butter, and a dessert- spoonful of Worcester sauce; let all bake in the67 DRESSED EISH A LA MODE. oven, and when the fish is cooked drain the sauce from the dish, strain, and then boil it up and pour over the fish. Sole a la Normande. Sole a la Normande. Take a good-sized sole, trim it and cut off the fins, lay it open and take out the bone. Fill it with forcemeat, and sprinkle a little salt over it. Lay it then on a buttered tin with little dabs of butter all over it, cover with buttered paper, and bake it for ten minutes. It should not be baked brown. Squeeze lemon over it when done, add the sauce, and garnish with chopped parsley and lobster coral. The forcemeat can be made of lobster panada (or shrimp, oyster, or mushroom panada). Car- dinal sauce should be served round it. Sole ^ la Rouennaise. Take a medium-sized sole, cut off its fins, head and tail, and fillet it. Chop up the bones and skin very small, add a little salt and a small shalot, and put them into milk, and let all boil. Take a tin well rubbed with butter, and take each fillet and spread thinly on half of it lobster panada, then fold the other over it like a slice of bread and butter, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the pre- pared fillets, and cover them with buttered paper, and bake in the oven for ten minutes. Make a sauce of one ounce of butter melted with a dessert- spoonful of flour stirred in it till it boils, let it boil for ten minutes, add a little lemon-juice, and a68 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. gill of cream, then strain it. Arrange the fillets in a circle, mask them well with the sauce, and sprinkle lobster coral, dried parsley, truffles, and grated hard-boiled eggs over alternately. Serve lobster quenelles in the centre. This dish can be made with oysters instead of lobster, or with prawns or mushrooms; also with tomatoes and shalots for the stuffing and mush- rooms in the centre. The panada is made thus. Take half a pound of lobster, six ounces of panada, two ounces of butter, a tiny dust of cayenne, a spoonful of white sauce. Pound the lobster and panada separately, and then work them to a smooth paste together in the mortar ; add seasoning to taste, and two eggs by degrees. When mixed pass through sieve. Panada is made by soaking breadcrumbs in stock with pepper, salt, and a little butter, and boiling it in a saucepan till it is well cooked and leaves the side of the pan. Sole a la Portugaise. Skin a large sole. Make an incision sufficiently large to admit of the stuffing, put an ounce of butter on a plate, add a shalot, half a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; put this stuffing into the fish, and put it on a buttered dish. Peel and slice a Spanish onion and four tomatoes very fine, and lay the mixture over the sole alternately. Sprinkle over some salt and pepper, about one ounce of butter and about half an ounce of brown breadcrumbs in which some grated Parmesan cheese has been mixed. Pour round the sole three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce.DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 69 cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Sole k la Trouville. Take the dark skin from a pair of soles, cut each sole into three pieces. Line a china fireproof dish with butter, and breadcrumbs, and onion chopped very fine; put the dish in the oven to brown, and pour in a wine-glass of cider and let it boil, then arrange the pieces of sole on the dish and return it to the oven. After the fish has been cooked for a few minutes, cover it with butter, flour, and chopped parsley that have been worked up together, and finish cooking. Send up in the dish in which the fish is cooked. Trout k I’Aurore. Truite a I’Aurore. Take two moderate-sized trout, empty them, remove the gills and fins, scrape off the scales, wash carefully, and wipe dry. Put into the fish-kettle as much water as will cover the fish and a good tablespoonful of salt, and one of vinegar. Put the trout into the water when it is boiling, and boil gently ; when the eyes start they are done enough. Lift them out carefully, drain them, and place them in a hot dish, and cover them with this sauce :—Beat the yolks of three eggs, and mix with them a quarter of a pint of white sauce, an ounce of grated Parmesan, a teaspoonful of chili vinegar, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken. Boil two eggs hard, mince them finely,DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 70 mix a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan with them, and sprinkle the mixture over the fish. Put it in the oven for about a quarter of an hour till it is hot through, brown the surface with a salamander or red-hot shovel, then pour a little shrimp sauce round the fish, and serve it very hot. Trout Souchet. Souchet de Truite. Clean and empty five or six small trout, and dry them well. Cut four parsley roots into strips an inch long and very narrow, and boil these in a pint and a half of water, together with a teaspoon- ful of salt and a teaspoonful of finely-scraped horse- radish. In five minutes throw in a handful of small sprigs of parsley. Let the water boil up again, put in the trout, let it boil, skim the liquor, and simmer the fish gently till done enough. Serve the fish in a deep dish with the water, parsley, etc., and send slices of thin brown bread-and-butter to table with it. Stewed Trout in Wine. Truite etuvee au Vin. Empty, dry and clean two or three fresh trout, put them in a stewpan, pour over them equal parts of good gravy, and either claret, port, or Madeira, and add a moderate-sized onion, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns, six allspice, two cloves, and a little salt. Let them simmer gently till done. Take them up carefully, strain the gravy, thicken it with brown thickening, and flavour with a teaspoon-DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 71 ful of lemon-juice or chili vinegar, a teaspoon- ful of essence of anchovy and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Strain over the fish and serve very hot. Turban of Trout. Turban de Truite. Take the fillets of two small trout, flatten them and trim and cut them so that they will fit the mould, which should be a plain round one ; season them with a little salt, and well sprinkle half of them on one side with lobster spawn (if lobster spawn is not procurable, sprinkle with chopped parsley). Butter the mould and line it with buttered paper; arrange the fillets of trout alter- nately round the mould like Savoy cakes in a Charlotte Russe mould, put over these a lobster farce ; smooth this well inside with a broad knife dipped into hot water, and press the farce well on to the fillets. Fill up the centre with some cucumber cut into slices and cooked in sauce. Place some more farce on the top and smooth it again; place the mould in a stewpan with sufficient boiling water to come half-way up the mould. When the water reboils, draw the pan to the side of the stove and put the lid on, and let it steam for nearly an hour ; when ready, turn out the dish, pour the sauce round, and garnish the top of the turban with quenelles of lobster farce and sliced pieces of cucumber cut in the shape of peas round the base. The sauce for this should be made of the fish bones, an onion, a sprig of thyme, a small bay-leaf, a little salt and pepper boiled up in cold water, and when brought to the boil skim and let it boil72 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. on for fifteen minutes. Have ready a little flour that has been fried in butter, and stir into the stock and let it boil; add a glassful of chablis and a table- spoonful of cream. Boil for ten minutes, pass through a sieve, add a few capers, and serve. Turbot k la Sainte-Mdnehould. Cut the turbot in neat pieces, dip each into a very thick sauce, light coloured and well flavoured; pile them in a dish, sprinkle thickly with fine bread- crumbs ; over this grate some Parmesan cheese, and brown it nicely in the oven and serve very hot. Whitebait. Blanchailles. Wash the whitebait well in iced water, and dry them well in a cloth. Take a sheet of paper and put on it a good tea- cupful of flour, sprinkle the whitebait in the flour: they must be fingered as little as possible, and not allowed to touch each other. Take up the paper and shake the whitebait well in the flour, so that they are completely covered. Now turn the white- bait from the paper of flour into a whitebait basket, and sift all the loose flour back on to the paper. Then put one and a half pounds of lard or clarified dripping (which is better) into a saucepan, and heat the fat over a fire ; when the fat smokes turn in the whitebait, a few at a time, into the frying-basket, and put it into the fat for one minute. The white- bait should be quite crisp. Put a piece of whitey- brown paper on a plate, put the whitebait on it toDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 73 draw off the grease ; serve piled up on a hot dish. Cut lemon and thin slices of brown bread-and- butter should be handed with the whitebait. Devilled Whitebait. Blanchailles Grillees. Fry the whitebait in the usual way till it is crisp. Lift the basket out of the fat, shake the fish and sprinkle over it a little salt and black pepper. Plunge the basket again in the fat and let it remain for a few seconds. If a red devil is required, sprinkle a little cayenne upon the fish in addition to the black pepper, after it is taken out of the fat for the last time. Paupiettes of Whiting. Merlans en Paupiettes. Fillet three or four full-sized whitings. Trim the fillets, season with pepper and salt, and spread upon each a little whiting forcemeat. Roll them round, tie securely with twine, and wrap them in strips of oiled paper. Put them in the oven and bake till done enough. Remove the paper, place the paupiettes upright on a dish, put upon the top of each a turned mushroom, pour a little lobster sauce round them, and serve. Whiting Souffld. Souffle de Merlan. Make panada the same as for lobster, add one good-sized whiting, and then pound in mortar with the yolks of two eggs. Pound in with this mixture74 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. three or four oysters, pass all through wire sieve, add a little salt, a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and a trifle of cayenne ; put into a mould and steam till done. Coat it with Cardinal sauce and serve hot. Anchovy Sauce. Sauce aux Anchois. Take one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour, and mix them well together ; add one gill and a half of cold water. Put the stewpan over the fire and stir well with a wooden spoon till the mixture is quite smooth and boils. Take it off the fire and add a good dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and stir it well into the butter. Six drops of chili vine- gar is an immense improvement to this sauce. Brown Butter for Broiled Fish. Beurre Noir. Take two ounces of butter, stir it over the fire in a stewpan till it is brown, then add one dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, the same of chopped capers, one large glassful of gravy, and boil all to- gether for three minutes. A teaspoonful of Clarence’s cayenne sauce is an improvement. Cardinal Sauce. Sauce Cardinal. Make half a pint of white sauce, with a few drops of lemon in it, and stir well into lobster coral pounded in butter.75 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Court Bouillon. Sauce Court Bouillon. Fill a fishpan nearly to the brim with white wine, a wineglassful of brandy, the same quantity of sherry, and season with salt, pepper, two heads of cloves, a head of garlic, sliced onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips, celery, chervil, parsley, a bay-leaf, thyme, and a lump of fresh butter. Boil over a quick fire till reduced a third ; if the wine catches fire it will greatly improve the flavour of the sauce. When used for cooking fish, see that the court bouillon is boiling before putting it in, and have sufficient to cover the fish entirely. A more economical way of preparing this sauce is by using equal quantities of vinegar and water instead of white wine, and b}>- omitting some of the vegetables. Dutch Sauce. Sauce Hollandaise. Take two ounces of butter; put it into a stew- pan with four yolks of eggs, and stand the pan in a saucepan of hot water over the fire, and keep stirring it well; season it with salt to taste and a dust of cayenne ; stir till it thickens and is quite smooth, and be careful that it does not boil or it will curdle. When ready to serve, put in one table- spoonful of French vinegar, one of tarragon, and half the juice of a lemon.76 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Egg Sauce. Sauce aux CEufs. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and one and a half of flour, mix well together ; add half a pint of water, and a saltspoonful of salt. Put the stewpan on the fire and stir all smooth till it boils. Now add a gill of cream and let it boil, stirring all the time. Stand the stewpan by the side of the fire to keep it warm, but it must not boil again. Next boil two eggs hard for ten minutes ; throw them into cold water for a minute, and then shell them. Cut the eggs into little square pieces and add them to the sauce, stirring them lightly to avoid breaking them. Horseradish Sauce for Fish. Sauce Raifort. Grate two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, put it into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown gravy, and let it stand by the side of the fire until quite hot. Add a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a clove of garlic pounded with a little butter, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Geneva Sauce. Sauce Geneve. Stir a lump of butter the size of an egg and a dessertspoonful of flour in a saucepan over the fire till brown ; moisten with a tumblerful of claret and a pint of the liquor the fish has been boiled in ; flavour with three sliced onions, a bouquet of mixed herbs, salt, pepper, and a few chopped mushrooms.77 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Simmer for half an hour, and just before serving add a wineglassful of Madeira or Marsala, pass through a tammy, and serve. Italian Sauce. Sauce Italienne. One ounce of butter, six chopped mushrooms, a small shalot, salt, and pepper; fry all these to- gether, add one gill of sherry, cook it well, and reduce it. Then stir in a dessertspoonful of flour and brown it; then pour half a pint of stock and boil for fifteen minutes; chop up in it either truffles or mushrooms. Lobster Sauce. Sauce au Homard. Take a small hen lobster, remove all the shell, and take out the flesh and cut it up in pieces to the size of small dice. Take the coral out of the lobster and wash it carefully, and then put it in a mortar with one ounce of butter, and pound them well together; scrape it cleanly out of the mortar and rub it through a hair sieve; when it has all passed through and the bottom of the sieve care- fully scraped, make it all into a little pat. Then take a stewpan, and put in it one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour; mix all well together. Add one gill and a half of cold water, and stir this mixture over the fire till it boils and thickens. Now add a gill of cream, and stir well till it boils again. Then add off the fire by degrees the pat made of coral butter, stir till it is quite smooth, and78 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. then add pepper, salt, and a dust of cayenne ; put in the chopped lobster, mix it in the sauce, and add a little lemon-juice. Marinade for Fish. Boil together a quarter-pint of vinegar to three- quarters pint of water, a few bruised fennel leaves, a sprig of thyme, an onion in rings, and some cayenne and salt. Simmer these for ten minutes, put in the fish, and simmer till done. Matelote Sauce. Sauce Matelote. Brown some young onions in butter. When done, remove them, moisten the butter with equal quan- tities of white or red wine and stock, season with salt, pepper, and a bouquet garni. Boil the sauce, reduce it, add the onions and some blanched mush- rooms, and serve. Mirepoix Sauce. Take some chopped veal, ham, bacon, carrots, and onions, season with salt, pepper, a bay-leaf, and two chopped shalots ; simmer over a slow fire for two hours. Moisten with white wine and stock, pass through a hair sieve, and it is ready. Naples Sauce for Fish. .Sauce Naj^olitaine. Take one-eighth of a pint of freshly-boiled shrimps, remove the shells, and put them into a stew- pan with a large boned and skinned anchovy, two79 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. finely-minced shalots, a dessertspoonful of bruised capers, and a pea of garlic. Stir over the fire for seven minutes, pour in a quarter of a pint of good stock, and add a small dust of cayenne. Simmer gently for fifteen minutes, thicken the sauce with a piece of butter the size of an egg rolled in flour, and boil ten minutes longer. Strain the sauce, adding another dessertspoonful of lemon-juice. Make it as hot as possible without letting it boil, draw it from the fire, and stir in a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Serve at once. Oyster Sauce. Sauce aux Huitres. Take a dozen oysters and the liquor that is with them, and put them in a small saucepan. Just bring them to a boil to blanch them, and take the saucepan off the fire as soon as it boils. Take a basin and pour the oyster liquor into it through a strainer. Put the oysters on a plate, take off the beards and hard parts. Take a tablespoonful of cold milk and a quarter of an ounce of flour, and mix well together ; then add half an ounce of butter, and stir in with wooden spoon ; add the strained oyster liquor, and stir this mixture over the fire till it boils and thickens. Now add one tablespoonful of cream, and stir again till it boils ; take it off fire and add four drops of essence of anchovy, six drops of lemon- juice, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Take the oysters and cut them in halves, add them to the sauce, and stir well.8o DRESSED EISH A LA MODE. Piquante Sauce. Sauce Piquante. Stir a little stock into some brown thickening, add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one table- spoonful of chopped shalots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley ; reduce, add a little salt, and pass through a tammy, and serve. Prince’s Sauce. To be eaten with boiled fish. Take a small handful of tarragon leaves, chervil, and chives ; mince them, throw them into boiling water, and let them boil gently for a few minutes; pour off the water and squeeze them in a cloth. Put them then in a mortar with three anchovies freed from grease, bone and skin, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a dessertspoonful of dry mustard, and a dessertspoonful of capers. Put these ingredients into a mortar, pound them well, and add very gradually two raw eggs, a quarter of a pint of salad oil, and the same of tarragon vinegar. Rub through hair sieve, and serve. Royal Sauce. Sauce Royale. Beat two raw yolks of eggs with two ounces of fresh butter, add gradually a teaspoonful of elder vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tea- spoonful of soy, a dust of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour this mixture into an earthen jar, set this in a small saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling, stirring all the time till it begins to thicken, but be sure it does not curdle.DRESSED FISH A LA MODE 8i Sauce Ravigote. Take equal quantities of white wine and stock, reduce to a brown thickening ; season with chopped and blanched pimpernel, chervil, chive leaves, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper. Stir the sauce till quite thick over a quick fire, but do not let it boil. Remoulade Sauce. Boil three eggs hard, throw them into cold water, strip off the shell, remove the whites and pound the yolks in a mortar with a dessertspoon- ful of mustard and a little salt and cayenne. When these are all well blended, and the paste is quite smooth, add by drops three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and whisk the sauce well the whole time. When it is quite thick add the yolk of a raw egg, and then very gradually a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a teaspoonful of Harvey’s sauce, three pounded shalots, a very small piece of garlic. Shrimp Sauce. Sauce aux Crevettes. Boil a quart of shelled shrimps for five minutes in half a pint of white sauce, add a tablespoonful of Fourner and Cunningham’s pate d’anchois. Flavour with the juice of a lemon, and serve. Sardine Sauce. Take eight sardines and remove the bones. Make a butter sauce ready, with broth of the ordinary thickness. In this boil the bones of the G82 DRESSED FISH A LA MODE, fish, a bay-leaf, and a finely-minced shalot, pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. When the sauce is properly flavoured, strain it and add the fish minced very fine. Tartare Sauce. Take two eggs, and put the yolks in one basin and the whites into another; take a wooden spoon and stir the yolks enough to break them ; add a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar. Take a bottle of salad oil, and pour in drop by drop a gill of it. Then add a teaspoonful more vinegar, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Then take a small bunch of parsley and put it in a small sauce- pan of boiling water, with a little salt and soda, for two or three seconds ; then dry it thoroughly by squeezing it in a cloth ; chop it up finely to make a teaspoonful. Take a few gherkins or capers, and chop them up finely enough to make a tablespoon- ful. Put all these into the sauce and mix in with a spoon. Sauce a la Trois Freres. Mince half a dozen mushrooms, half a dozen onions, and a clove of garlic. Put the mushrooms into a saucepan, pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and simmer gently till the sauce is pleasantly flavoured. Strain the liquor through a tammy, add a glass of claret, boil up once more, and serve. A few drops of anchovy essence is an improvement.DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 83 Fish Forcemeat. Chop the remains of any shell-fish, lobster, crab, etc., with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; add a little minced parsley, and the same quantity of bread- crumbs as of fish. Pound all in a mortar with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and a flavouring of nutmeg. Stuff any white fish with this forcemeat, mixing it well with the beaten yolk of an egg. Fish Glaze (Superior). Simmer the heads and trimmings of turbot, whiting, or any fish, in water with a fifth part of white wine for several hours ; season with carrots, leeks, onions, a bouquet garni, and a bead of garlic ; pass through a tammy, and reduce to a glaze and keep till required. Quenelles for Fish Soups. Take the meat, pith, coral and spawn of a small hen lobster and pound it to a paste; mix with two tablespoonfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and two and a half ounces of butter; season this with a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a pinch of salt, a dust of cayenne, and moisten with the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Mould the force- meat into small quenelles, and poach them in boiling water. Quenelles for Turtle Soup. Take a quarter of a pound of lean veal, cut it into long slices, and scrape it with a knife tillDRESSED FISH A LA MODE. 84 nothing but the fibre remains. Pound this to a smooth paste and rub it through a wire sieve; then make it into a ball, and take its bulk, not its weight, in panada^ and calfs-udder. Pound these ingredients and press them through a sieve, first separately and afterwards together; season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg (just one grate), and add gradually the yolks of two and the white of one egg. After pounding the ingredients together, pass again through the sieve, and before poaching the quenelles, test a little bit of the forcemeat by throwing it into boiling water. If when taken out it is not sufficiently firm, add the yolk of another egg. Mould it in balls of any size that may be preferred, poach these in boiling water until sufficiently hard, drain them, and then put them into the tureen and pour the soup gently over them. They are usually made of the size of marbles. Quenelles for White and Clear Soups. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over a gentle fire, beat it up with a dessertspoonful of flour and a tablespoonful of cream, so as to make a thick paste. Add two ounces of boiled macaroni, two ounces of Parmesan grated, a little salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Beat the mixture over the fire until it is smooth and firm, and leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon. Mould it into quenelles with a teaspoon dipped into hot water, and then poach them in boiling gravy till they are done through; lift them out with a skimmer, and put them into the tureen with the soup. * See ‘ Panada ’ in Entries h la Mode.INDEX. •o»- Alma mater soup, i Almond soup, i Anchovy sauce, 74 Asparagus soup, 2 Balmoral soup, 2 Bonne femme soup, 3 Bouillabaisse, 4 Brill a la conte, 39 —k la Provengale, 39 — a la ravigote, 39 Broth, Scotch, 32 Brunoise soup, 4 Butter, brown, sauce, 74 Calf’s-tail soup a la Riche- lieu, 5 Cardinal sauce, 74 Carp a la Russe, 40 Carrot soup, 5 Cheese (parmesan), plaice with, 51 Chestnut soup k la Mancelle, 6 Chicken puree a la reine, 6 Clear soup, 8 Cod k la Garonne, 40 — roes in tomato sauce, 40 — stuffed, 41 Collared eels, 42 Conger eel k la pecheur, 41 Conservative soup, 7 Court bouillon, 75 Crayfish and truffles, fillets of soles with, 62 — soup, 9 Cucumber, fillets of salmon with, 54 — soup, 9 Cutlets, salmon, aux concombres 54 broiled, 54 Devilled whitebait, 73 Dutch sauce, 75 Eel a la Bordelaise, 42 — a la poulette, 44 — a la Suffren, 45 — a la Tartare, 45 — pout a la Parisienne, 44 a la Prussienne, 44 a I’ltalienne, 43 — soup a I’Anglaise, 10 Eels, collared, 42 — matelote of, 43 Egg sauce, 76 Empress soup, ii Excellency, His, soup, 10 Fillets of gurnet with tomato sauce, 46 — of haddock ^ la Genoise, 46 — of mackerel, orlys of, 51 — of plaice k la Vatel, 52 — — orlys of, 51 — of salmon aux concombres, 54 a la SuMe, 57INDEX. 86 Fillets of soles^ h I’Amphylrion, 62 la Bohemienne, 60 la Cadiz, 61 la deesse, 62 la Joinville, 62 la maitre d’hotel, 63 la Rothschild, 64 en aspic, 59 en turban, 65 with oysters, 64 with prawns, 64 Fish forcemeat, 83 — glaze, superior, 83 — soup, 12 — a a a la pecheur, 12 —• — quenelles for, 83 Flounders au gratin, 45 Forcemeat, fish, 83 Fritters, salmon, 55 Game soup a la chasseur, 13 Geneva sauce, 76 Giblet soup, 15 Gratin of flounders, 45 — of lobster, 49 — of sole, 66 Green pea soup, 16 (maigre), 16 Grouse soup a I’Ecossais, 16 Gurnet, fillets of, with tomato sauce, 46 Jubilee soup, 18 Julienne soup, 19 Kidney soup a la Sydney, 19 Lobster au gratin, 49 — bisque, 20 — mayonnaise of, 49 — miroton of, 50 — sauce, 77 Macaroni soup, 21 Mackerel a la Colchester, 50 — orlys of fillets of, 51 Marinade, salmon, 55 — sauce, 78 Matelote of eels, 43 — of John Dory, 48 — sauce, 78 Mayonnaise of lobster, 49 — salmon, 56 Mirepoix sauce, 78 Miroton of lobster, 50 Mock turtle soup, 22 Mullet, red, a la metropole, 53 a I’ltalienne, 53 in cases, 53 with tomatoes, 54 Mulligatawny soup (clear), 23 Mutton soup, 23 Haddock, fillets of, a la Genoise, 46 Hare soup, 17 Herrings a la marinitre, 47 — rolled, to eat cold, 47 — smoked, k la Bruxellaise, 47 Horseradish sauce, 76 Imperial soup, 18 Italian sauce, 77 John Dory en matelote, 48 Naples sauce, 78 Onion soup (brown), 23 (white), 24 Orly of fillets of sole, 64 Orlys of mackerel, 51 — of plaice, 51 Oxtail soup (clear), 24 (thick), 25 Oyster sauce, 79 — soup, 26 Oysters, fillets of soles with, 6487 INDEX. Palestine soup, 26 Paupiettes of whiting, 73 Pea soup, 27 ^ green, 16 (maigre), l6 Peasant’s soup, 28 Piquante sauce, 80 Plaice, fillets of, k la Vatel, 52 — orlys of fillets of, 51 — with Parmesan cheese, 51 Potato soup, 28 Prawns, fillets of soles with, 64 Prince George, ravioli soup k la, 29 Prince’s sauce, 80 Princess soup, 29 Quenelles for fish soups, 83 — for turtle soups, 83 — for white and clear soups, 84 Rabbit soup, 30 Ravigote sauce, 81 Ravioli soup a la Prince George, 29 Regent’s soup, 31 Remoulade sauce, 81 Royal sauce, 80 Salmon a la metropole, 56 — a rinde, 55 — broiled, 54 — fillets of, a la SuMe, 57 with cucumber, 54 — fritters, 55 •— marinade, 55 — mayonnaise, 56 Salt fish, boiled, a la moderne, 58 Sardine sauce, 81 Sauce ^ la trois freres, 82 — anchovy, 74 •— brown butter, 74 — cardinal, 74 — court bouillon, 75 — Dutch, 7Z — egg, 76 Sauce, horseradish, 76 — Geneva, 76 — Italian, 77 — lobster, 77 — marinade, 78 — matelote, 78 — mirepoix, 78 — Naples, 78 — oyster, 79 — piquante, 80 — prince’s, 80 — ravigote, 81 — remoulade, 81 — royal, 80 — sardine, 81 — shrimp, 81 — tartare, 82 — tomato, cod roes in, 40 Scotch broth, 32 Shrimp sauce, 81 Soles a I’Americaine, 59 — k I’Apicius, 66 — a I’aurore, 58 — a la Normande, 67 — a la Portugaise, 68 — a la Rouennaise, 67 — a la Trouville, 69 — au gratin, 66 — fillets of, a I’Amphytrion, 62 i la Bohemienne, 60 a la Cadiz, 61 a la deesse, 62 a la Joinville, 62 a la maitre d’hotel, 63 a la Rothschild, 64 k I’Orly, 64 en aspic, 59 en turban, 65 in cases, 59 with oysters, 64 with prawns, 64 Souffle, whiting, 73 Soup a la Colbert, 7 — a la Florenza, 12 — a la jardiniere, 18 — a la moderne, 21 — a la royale, 31 — alipa mater, iINDEX. 88 Soup, almond, i — asparagus, 2 — Balmoral, 2 — bonne femme, 3 — bouillabaisse, 4 — Brunoise, 4 — calfs-tail, a la Richelieu, 5 — carrot, 5 — chestnut, a la Mancelle, 6 — chicken, a la reine, 6 — clear, 8 — conservative, 7 — crayfish, 9 — cucumber, 9 — de Galles, 14 — eel, a I’Anglaise, 10 — empress, 11 — fish, 12 a la pecheur, 12 quenelles for, 83 — game, a la chasseur, 13 — giblet, 15 — green pea, 16 (maigre), 16 — grouse, a I’Ecossais, 16 — hare, 17 — His Excellency’s, 10 — imperial, 18 — jubilee, 18 — julienne, 19 — kidney, a la Sydney, 19 — lobster, 20 — macaroni, 21 — mock turtle, 22 — mulligatawny (clear), 23 — mutton, 23 — onion (brown), 23 (white), 24 — oxtail (clear), 24 (thick), 25 — oyster, 26 — Palestine, 26 — pea, 27 — peasant’s, 28 — potato, 28 — ravioli, a la Prince George, 29 Soup, princess, 29 — rabbit, 30 — regent’s, 31 — Scotch, 32 — spinach, 33 — spring, 33 — tapioca, a la creme, 35 — tomato, a I’Americaine, 35 — turnip, a I’imperiale, 36 — turtle, clear, 36 mock, 22 — vegetable marrow, 37 — Victor Emanuel, 37 — white and clear, quenelles for, 84 — with asparagus, 2 Spinach soup, 33 Spring soup, 33 Tapioca soup a la crane, 35 Tartar sauce, 82 Tomato sauce, cod roes in, 40 fillets of gurnet with, 46 — soup a I’Americaine, 35 Tomatoes, red mullet with, 54 Trout a I’aurore, 69 — etuvee au vin, — souchet, 70 — turban of, 71 Truffles, crayfish and, fillets of soles with, 62 Turbot k la Sainte-Menehould, 72 Turnip soup a I’imperiale, 36 Turtle soup, clear, 36 mock, 22 quenelles for, 83 Vegetable marrow soup, 37 Victor Emanuel soup, 37 Whitebait, 72 — devilled, 73 Whiting, paupiettes of, 73 — souffle, 73 Spottiswoode <5r» rcet Square, London,1 T •i?-" 1^Ie