LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden ft Hfl 30106023330706RESERVE STOCK T755c61 H n* fVC'P- • U \ is »vc^.c> UhiV^-r^dui ES Qrcrmeru I^T^n. u . I . , 0 tyl • $>(&^ Tolpnhnnp ! HI -RRR l)l)Hl London Borouc Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW3 3HA v Q'% This book is due for return on below. The period of loan can t reserved (please ask for details Fines are charged c Lending Libraryjmyj»«aW1 yp re 30^ gh of Camden Tel 01-278 4444 Extensions: Pnnntft/flls -}0^ 1 lending Library 3012 jr before the date stamped >e extended if the book is not )f renewal facilities). )n overdue bool^s^—■■—‘•'"'T" \ t*\l r 1- hi 1, 25. .08....82. r , ^ vO'1 . .tL. V •J ..X 1/ IDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21537938_0001Plate I. COLO SALMON SOUFFLE. SI I.L iCASSELL’S NEW Universal Cookery Book LIZZIE BY HERITAGE Holder of First-Class Diplomas in Cookery and Domestic Economy WITH TWELVE COLOURED PLATES (Drawn direct from specially-prepared Dishes) And ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE TEXT CASSELL and COMPANY, Limited LONDON, FA Ills <0 MELBOURNE 1888 ALL RIGHTS RESERVEDPREFACE. The great development of intercourse between different nations, considerable advances in the methods of preparing and serving food, and the modern tendency to examine into the principles and foundations of things, have not only brought about a large increase of books upon Cookery, but perceptible changes in their character. Of these developments, the present work is an example. To the first cause we owe it that the art of Cooking has now become to a large extent cosmopolitan. Differences in local products and climates will always maintain, to some extent, national “• schools ” of Cookery. But as much of the Fi’encli cuisine has long become the common property of civilisation, so an intelligent cook is now expected to know something of the best dishes from the German, Italian, Indian, and American schools, and does not disdain contributions from even more distant fields. It has been said, with truth, that “ the most scientific cliej who ever served up a Parisian banquet could probably learn something new from the ignorant savage, who chews strange herbs to help him to digest the meat which his intellect has not sufficiently expanded to enable him to cook,^ Modern Cookery draws both viands and methods from all countries. Especially is the fact now realised that principles are more important than details. Vegetables are now “ put on ” in cold, and now in boiling water: how much more is known when the whyVlll UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. is understood, than if only some venerable tradition be blindly obeyed. We see this more clearly when animal food is in question ; for this, too, needs similar variety of treatment, and for lack of such knowledge of the principle involved, is often half wasted. Again, when by common consent certain articles of food are usually eaten together, there is almost always good reason for it; which, if rightly understood, is a hint for or against other combinations. A real principle is thus fruitful of suggestion or application ; and one good recipe is, to an intelligent cook, a guide to many more. There is no need to tell such air one how other materials may be used in the same way, nor how the recipe may be elaborated for some special occasion, or simplified for economy or for lack of some ingredient; while another cook, good in a way, will have no idea whatever of departing from what is in the book. M Such a grasp of principles will, however, not only tell upon the digestibility and variety of our daily food, but has a direct bearing upon that economy which should always be studied, and must be studied in many cases from sheer necessity. It is still true that an average French housekeeper would half keep a small family upon what an average English one wastes entirely. In many households things are much and happily changed in this respect; but in many others the cook has still to be taught—if indeed the mistress IterselJ knows—how to convert unconsidered trifles and remnants into nourishing and inviting dishes. For the influence of appearance upon appetite, again, is a point much better understood now than formerly. Dishes are expected to look tempting, as well as to please the palate. Such subtle connection between different senses becomes all the more important when appetite has become uncertain, or when diet lias to be restricted onIX PREFACE. account of disease. Put it always has to do with perfect enjoyment of the simplest meal, and must therefore receive marked attention in any Cookery Book abreast of modern knowledge and ideas. The present work has been written with conscientious endeavour to supply the above requirements, at small cost, and so arranged as to give the greatest facility for consultation. The arrangement, it is hoped, will speak for itself, as also must the performance : here it is only attempted to indicate those points which must distinguish any household treatise upon the Culinary Ai’t, that shall meet the growing demands of the present day Leonard GrOnenfelder, Chef, Grand Hotel, London. (Formerly Chef of the Reform Club.)CONTENTS. Baldng—Boiling—Braising—Broiling—Clarifying Fat—Frying —Dry Frying — Glazing—Grilling—Larding and Barding —Boasting—The Salamander—Sauter—Sweating—Steaming —Stewing 1—20 HORS DLEUVRES 21-23 STOCKS AND SOUPS. Stocks, and the Stock-pot — Soup-Making — Colourings and Thickening for Soups and Sauces—Meat, Game, and Vege- table Soups—Fish Soups 24—79 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. General Remarks—Gravies—Hot Sauces for Meat, Poultry, ar.d Fish—Cold Savoury Sauces—Sweet Sauces .... SO—128 FISH. General Remarks—List of Recipes ...... 129—20.i ENTRIES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEVES. Hot Entrees—Made Dishes and Releves—Cold Entrees . . 206—284 JOINTS AND PLAIN MEAT DISHES. General Hints on Meat—Mixed Meat Dishes—Beef—Veal— Mutton—Lamb—Venison—Pork—Salted Meats . . . 285—385UNIVERSAL cookery book. XU GAME AND POULTRY. General Remarks—List of Birds and Recipes .... SAUSAGES, FORCEMEATS, AND POTTED MEATS AND FISH. Sausages—Forcemeats—Potted Meats and Fish .... COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. General Hints—Serving Cold Meat—Treatment of Scraps— Recipes CEREALS AND PULSE, CHEESE AND EGGS. General Remarks—Cereals—Pulse—Cheese Dishes—Eggs . PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. Principles of Vegetable Cookery—Recipes DRESSED VEGETABLES. What is Meant by Dressed Vegetables—Recipes.... SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. General Remarks—Salad Dressings—Salads .... PASTRY, PIES, AND PUDDINGS. General Hints on Pastry—Pastry or Paste Recipes—Savoury Pastry and Puddings—Sweet Puddings and Pastry PANCAKES, FRITTERS, OMELETS, & SOUFFLES. General Remarks on Pancakes and Fritters, Omelets, Souffles— Savoury Dishes—Sweet Dishes PAGE 380—472 473 -502 503—540 541—602 003—666 067—098 099—737 738—883 884—916Xlll CONTENTS. SWEETS, JELLIES, CREAMS, AND ICES. PAGE Sweets and Custards—Jellies, Creams, and Blancmanges—Ices . 917—971 GARNISHES, ADJUNCTS, SAVOURIES, AND SANDWICHES. General Remarks—Piping Bags and Tubes—Recipes . . . 972—1001 BREAD, CAKES, BISCUITS, &C. General Remarks on Bread, Cakes, and Biscuits—Recipes . 1002—1005 FOOD FOR INVALIDS AND INFANTS. Rules for Invalid Cookery— Hints—Infants’ Food—Recipes . 1056—1092 JAMS, JELLIES, PRESERVED FRUITS, AND FRUIT DISHES. Jam Making—Fruit Jellies—Bottled and Preserved Fruits— KeciPes 1093—1150 PICKLES, CHUTNEYS, AND SEASONINGS. Hints on Pickles, Ketchups, and Store Sauces, and Spices and Condiments—Recipes ngg BEVERAGES. "Wines, Ales, Cups, and Mixed Drinks—Non-Alcoholic Bever- ages—Home-Made Wines and Cordials .... 1181 1217 DESSERT AND TABLE DECORATION. Arrangement of Dessert—Floral Decorations—Designs for Table Decoration—Plate, Linen, &c 1218—1229UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. XIV THE KITCHEN. rAGE Kitchen Management Arrangement of Meals—Order of Dishes in Flavour and Colour—Marketing, Choice of Food, Storage, &c.—Emergency Dishes—Dishes in Waiting— Re-heating FOod—^Smell of Cooking . . . : , ; 1230—1238 Kitchen Ranges and Stoves—Kitchen Utensils—Food in Season—Glossary of Terms used in Cookery . . . 1238—1266 By PHYLLIS BROWNE. THE MANAGEMENT AND DUTIES OF SERVANTS. Management of Servants :—Choosing Servants—Engaging Servants—Dismissing Servants—Characters — Perquisites —Meals—Allowances—Wages and Board Wages—Illness —Livery and Dress—“ Followers”—Holidays—System . 1267—1277 Duties of Servants :—House Steward — Butler — Valet — Footman—Page—Coachman—Grooms—The Housekeeper —Lady’s-Maid—Nurses and Nursemaids—The Cook— Parlour-Maid—Upper and Under Housemaids—Laundry- maid—General Servant, or Maid-of-all-Work—Kitchen- maid—Scullery-maid 1277—1301 INDEX 1303-1328COLOURED PLATES. I. Cold Salmon Souffle (p. 895) .... Frontispiece II. Sweetbread Cutlets with Tomato Sauce (p. 225) . To face III. Ch.artreuse of Chicken and Tomatoes (p. 273) IV. Galantine of Fowl (p. 404) V. Potted Meat Basket with A'-r.c Border (p. 500) . VI. Macedoines in Cases with Asparagus and Macaroni (p. 033) VII. Lobster Salad Mayonnaise (p. 719) VIII. Raised Pigeon Pie (p. 781) IX. Gateau a la Ceylon (p. 1025) X. Rose Meringue (p. 934) XI. Imperial Tipsy Cake (p. 929) XII. Comp6te of Fruit a la Genoese (p. 923) PAGE 206 270 3S6 490 668 700 738 918 938 1002 1094INTRODUCTORY. A word should be said as to the proper use of this book, and especially to the more inexperienced reader of it. Begin at the right end. Encounter the lesser difficulties first, and so climb the culinary ladder step by step. Let study and practical work go hand in hand ; but strive always to grasp the real essence of the particular recipe, and the principles involved in preparing it. To attempt suddenly some elaborate dish, without having gone over this pre- liminary ground, is to sum up the result in failure. Make and bake a plain loaf, before attempting a rich cake. Try to send a boilod potato to table in perfect condition, before dealing with “ dressed ” vegetables* Learn to regulate the heat of the oven in cooking simple puddings, pies, and joints, before attempting puff pastry and souffles; and leave elaborate “made dishes” alone, until the sauces or gravies on which they largely depend have been mastered. In this way failures will be trivial and rare, and even these full of instruction ; while every successful dish, however simple, will lead many steps onward towards more complicated triumphs of the Culinary Art. The Author has given the approximate cost of recipes wherever such can be reasonably stated, which is in the majority of cases ; no truly practical treatise can state the cost in all. Wherever the approximate cost is not given, it is either because such is almost nil beside that of remnants used up in the dish, or because it depends upon ingredients the cost of which is highly variable. It is, however, to be borne in mind that in all recipes into which slock enters, in part or as the foundation, the cost is given exclusive of it. The reason for this is that very often the stock may cost practically nothing at all; while, if it is made from fresh meat purchased, the price of this can be easily added. Unless this is remembered, some figures may seem rather wide of the mark. The Author also desires to acknowledge her indebtedness to Messrs. Jones Brothers, of Down Street, W., for permission to reproduce in this work a selection from those Moulds, for various purposes, which they manufacture in such immense variety. The illustrations of moulds, &c., scattered through the following pages include several registered designs, and for a few of them her thanks are also due to other firms. London, September, 1894.CASSELL’S IEV UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. KITCHEN PROCESSES. GENERAL REMARKS. We commence this Work with a description of the cardinal processes of cookery, chiefly in their relation to animal food. Many details, as applied to various articles of diet, will be given under their respective headings ; but we ask especial attention not only to the following paragraphs, but also to the introductory portions of all succeeding chapters. They em- body those general hints which simplify recipes, and which cannot be given in them, save by much repetition. No deviation from the principles enforced in the following pages should or need be made, however much the approximate time laid down for the cooking may vary according to the nature of the stove or other apparatus. For instance, everyone who has had any experience in cook- ing, knows how much ovens vary, and this is but a type of a thousand and one probable departures from any one precise standard. To be able to cope with such difficulties, should the necessity arise, is the duty of most women. Nothing will enable them to do so more certainly than a thorough knowledge of the general principles and methods, and the carrying out of these in the preparation of the homeliest meal. Baking.—'This operation is closely allied to roasting, and we may place it first in order o£ importance. It is, in fact, what is called “roasting” by the majority; for real roasting is dying out, at any rate in private houses of ordinary dimensions. It is a most convenient method of cook- ing, and if carefully performed there are few objections to it, either on the ground of flavour or economy. The A chief conditions are a regular supply of heat from all parts of the oven, due ventilation, and a double baking- tin (Fig. 1), by which the decomposi- tion and burning of the dripping are avoided. Some people assert that a baked joint always has an unpleasant taste, but when this is the caso a dirty oven is the usual cause. Mr. Mattieu Williams, a high authority, contends, however, that a joint cooked in a cleano UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. oven, and over water—i.e., in a double mastering of the flues is a desideratum pan—will compare very favourably in the first instance. Fin. I.—Double Baking-Tin. witha “roast,” however juicy; and he I suggests a very fair test to the sceptical, | viz., that a piece of meat be cut in two, ' the one half baked and the other roasted, the results to be noted with care. The double pan above referred to is best; but joints and other dishes can also be baked on a meat-stand with legs (Fig. 2), which can be used in an ordinary tin of sufficient depth to prevent the splashing over of the fat into the oven. In purchasing such a meat-stand, a good-sized one should be chosen, as it will be found useful Fig. 2.-Meat-Stand with Legs. when a number of small articles have to be baked. That there are ovens and ovens goes without saying; but the ranges and kitcheners of the present day leave but little to be desired, so far as their baking powers are concerned. Most kinds have some peculiarity of con- struction, and in order 'that the “ bakes ” may turn out well, a thorough It is very important that the oven be large enough to take the joint com- fortably ; some ovens have a tendency to get very hot on one side, therefore frequent turning is needed to avoid burning, and frequent turning takes i time; besides, every inrush of cold air lowers the heat. Then, many of the I small stoves of a portable kind bake satisfactorily enough while shut up, | but should the top be required for grilling or frying, the oven quickly loses heat. Therefore, a fair-sized stove- oven, for even a small family, where baking is a regular thing, will be most satisfactory, and in the long run the most economical. The rules for baking are, in principle, identical with those for roasting (q.v.): viz., a large amount of heat at starting, gradual cooking afterwards, and plenty of basting. To ensure the first the oven must be hot. A joint put into a cold oven (we speak comparatively), and wanned through gradually before it begins to cook, is robbed of its flavour, and will be almost tasteless. Lay the meat fattest side uppermost; but, however fat, have in the tin some- hot dripping, and baste thoroughly ; a lump of dripping put into a cold tin, and left to melt with the joint, is not the same thing, and makes as much difference as does the cold oven. The average time required is about the- same as for roasting (q.v.), but ovens-KITCHEN PROCESSES. 3 vary too much to allow more than an approximate specification. In some, a joint would be done in less time than at an ordinary open fire ; again, at the fire of a large grate in an hotel or a college, the same joint would he cooked more quickly than in a small oven with erratic tendencies. The main point is, get to know your particular oven and its workings, then treat it properly by keeping it clean inside; and in order that it may receive its due amount of heat, see that the flues are regularly and thoroughly swept. A last hint: Do not, for the purpose of turning or dishing the meat, stick a fork into the leanest and best part; a couple of good-sized wooden spoons are useful, as they form a good support for a large piece; or a fork or wooden skewer may be used if the fat or skinny portion only is pierced. The thing to avoid is making holes in the juicy part, which, for some unexplained reason, always seems to be the part to suffer. This is the age of invention; but, so far as we know, no one has brought out two handy articles for which we think there would be a ready sale. One is an automatic baster—i.e., a receptacle for dripping to be suspended over the meat; and the second is a revolving meat-stand. The use of two such articles would certainly reduce con- siderably the time spent in attending to a baked joint, whilo the cooking protest would be facilitated by the more evenly-regulated temperature. Barding.—See Labuixo. Boiling. -Meat for boiling should he freshly killed : if hung as for roast, ing, the colour suffers, and if the least tainted the dish will be spoilt. The water should boil when the meat is put in, and be kept boiling for a few minutes to prevent the escape of the juices ; a small quantity of cold water should then be added—from a gill to half a pint, according to the quantity of boiling water—in order to reduce the temperature; after which, sim- mering point should be maintained throughout. The scum should be most carefully removed; some kinds of meat, as heads and necks, often throw up "a good deal, even after very careful washing, and req-aire attention during the first part of the time; otherwise the lid should be kept on the pot, or there is much loss of flavour. Care, too, is necessary to prevent smoking over an open fire. A large quantity of water robs meat of much goodness, and only just enough to cover it should be used; while the vessel should be adapted, as far as possible, to the joint; one just large enough to hold it easily is better than one much too large. Fio. 3.—Boilixg-Fot. In Fig. 3 is shown a boiling-pot of the ordinary shape; such are usually made of cast iron or wrought iron, and are very durable, but heavy. Block tin ones, of the same shape, preferably with a copper bottom, Fio. 4.—Inox Saucepan, with Tin Potato Steamer. answer the same purpose for close ranges, or gas or oil stoves. In Fig. 4Universal cookery book. 4 a common iron saucepan, with block- tin steamer (see Steaming), is given, and for open fireplaces this is the most durable kind, and may be used for either boiling or steaming. The time required must he regu- lated by the meat itself and its thick- ness (see Roasting) ; the average for beef and mutton is fifteen or twenty minutes per pound, with fifteen or twenty minutes over.* Veal must have rather longer; pork needs from twenty to thirty minutes per pound, according to age and thickness ; a leg from quite a young pig should have at least the last-named time. Many leading scientists are of opinion that meat is better if kept at a lower temperature than we have indicated, after the first ten minutes or so, to form the outer layer of solidified albumen, from 190° to 200° being given as .the average heat required. Some, too, go so far as to say that if meat boils at all, it may as well cook fast and furiously as slowly and steadily, pointing to the fact that the heat of the water is the same in either case in support of their arguments. True to an extent; but there is a difference in the result: for all are aware that in fast boiling the very knocking about of a joint, especially in too large a pan, will reduce it to rags; and most of us are painfully familiar with the bare bone, say, of a shank of mutton, and its accompany- ing horny flesh, due to furious boiling. In the case of tough meat, as old fowls, such a severe process may have its advantages; but for meat of good quality the ordinary simmering pro- cess — by which we mean just a tiny bubble here and there on the surface—is low enough, and tender- ness and good flavour may be relied on. Salt or no salt ? This is debatable ground. Salt increases the heat of the water—t.e., when put into boiling water it will reach several degrees * Reckon the time from the first bubbling up after the cold water is put in. above boiling point, according to the quantity put in ; hence, it is some- times recommended, in order that the increased heat may the more effectually prevent the escape of the juices by closing more completely the surface. Others contend that salt produces hardness, and that is our own opinion; we prefer to add it, in minute quantity only, near the end of the boiling. Boiling is a wasteful process unless most carefully performed and use made in all cases of the pot liquor; not so much from loss of weight, for figures seem to prove less loss than by baking and roasting, but by reason of the escape of so much flavour and nutri- tion. We will now turn to a brief consideration of Boiling Salted Meats.-—Here the ap- plication of boiling water to seal rip the surface pores is not practicable. In the first place, the meat, by salting, has already lost a large percentage of albumen and other nourishing elements. Then, as salting induces hardness, if put into boiling water the meat would become harder still, and by locking up, so to speak, the salt within the meat, it would bo unpalatable. We may here remark that we are referring more particularly to lean joints of beef, ox- tongues, &c., which should, as a rule, be put into cold water; but smaller, fatter portions, as breasts of pork, that have been in pickle only a short time, may, after washing, be put on in tepid or warm-water. The time for boiling salted meats is chiefly regulated by the time it has been in salt and its thickness; to be wholesome, it must be cooked long and slowly, and nearly double the time for the same weight of fresh meat must be given in some instances. Frequent skimming is necessary ; and if it is not required to bo cut while hot, the meat will be more tender and of fuller flavour if left in the liquor until cool. Usually the pot liquor is too salt to be of much use, unless it can be diluted with fresh meat liquor or stock from bones or vegetables.5 KITCHEN PROCESSES. Braising.—This is literally stew- ing in a covered pan in a small quantity of liquor, heat being applied from above as well as below by means of hot tinders, which are placed in the lid (hollowed for the purpose); and in the meat, or whatever may bo braised, there is therefore the succulence of the best stews, with the appetising brown- Fic. 5.—Braising-Pax. ness and crispness of a roast. Fig. 5 shows the kind of pan required ; they are usually of copper, with a tin drainer inside, and oval in form, from fourteen to twenty inches in length. The chief art consists in amalgamating the various ingredients—viz., vege- tables, herbs, spices, stock, and some- times wine, in suitable proportions; and with ordinary' care a savoury dish, exquisitely tender, and not necessarily costly, may be made, while no method imparts to dry meats such sapidity' and flavour. Braising requires but little attention, and all that has been siid in favour of stewing applies with still greater force to this process. Braised meats are often larded, and ham or bacon is also added to the foundation. For meat, poultry, &c., various recipes will be found in sub- sequent chapters. But as the braising- pan is rarely met with in private houses of average dimensions, we think it well to add that a stew- pan or saute-pan may be substituted for the proper article, and if care be taken to give a moderate and uniform degree of heat, the result will be but little inferior. To attain the requisite colour, one of two courses must be adopted. Either the meat must be lightly browned in hot fat before braising, or it can be finished off in a sharp oven after it is drained from the gravy. This is the better plan when it has been larded, as the object of larding is to improve dry meats, though the lardoons themselves, i.e., the bacon used, need a final crisping. The dish is further improved both in flavour and appearance by brushing it over, last thing, with a little liquid glaze or good gravy' in which a morsel of meat extract has been dissolved. The vege- tables themselves are not served with the braise, but used to impart flavour ; and when not at their best will answer the purpose, that is, w'hen out of condition for the table. Trim- mings of vegetables can also be used up, and odds and ends of many kinds, which might otherwise be wasted, can be relegated to the brai6- ing-pan when the principles are grasped, care being taken that the flavourings are harmonious. A veal bone or veal trimmings would furnish gelatinous material and improve the gravy' while imparting no pronounced flavour to the most delicate dish; but to add game bones or scraps to any braise of white meat or poultry' would spoil the whole. Broiling is quite distinct from grilling, though the two terms are frequently' regarded as sy'nony'mous. The result is also totally' different, for a grill has a peculiar sweetness which no broil possesses (due mainly to tho contact with the fire, and the conse- quent retention of the gravy), although it may be very' good. Broiling is also convenient, and needs comparatively little attention : it is economical too, as it answers for small joints, birds, &c., less fire being needed than would suffice to heat a side oven for baking them. There are many varieties of hanging-broilers, or toasters; the best, for good-si zod pieces of meat, are tho6 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. double ones, with a fitted tin pan underneath, as illustrated in Fig. 6. Fig. G.—Hanging Broiler. Dutch ovens and game ovens are very useful, and serve practically the same purpose, while their hood-like shape concentrates the heat in the same way as a meat screen. The general principles may he regarded as identical with grilling, therefore we refer to that paragraph for details of the process; and when a plain gravy is required it should be prepared in the same way as for a piece of roasted or baked meat. Clarifying Fat.—The proper clarification of fat, dripping, &c., though simple, is of more importance and demands fuller treatment than is usually given to it. It is common to meet with the directions, “ Take some clarified fat or dripping,” &c. &c., al- though perhaps the method of clarifi- cation is passed over. It will be seen from the chapters on Pastry and Cakes, that many nice dishes may be made at little cost in houses where clarified fat is used regularly; and it is quite certain that the use of burnt or unclarified fat is the ruin of many a dish that would otherwise be whole- some and palatable. Clarified fat is also, in many families, the cheapest and best to use for frying purposes. Dripping, to clarify —A. very simple way is to pour the dripping, while hot, into a basin containing cold water, to each quart of which a saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda should be added. These quantities are enough for half a pint of liquid dripping. Stir for a few times, then set aside: when cold tho dripping will he firm, and can be re- moved in a cake; any impurities must bo scraped from the bottom. The skimmings from the liquor in which meat, bacon, or ham, has been boiled, as well as the dripping from roast meat, may be clarified in this way. Another way.—Pour the dripping, while liquid (or leave until cold, it makes no difference), into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring a few times; then pour the whole out in a good-sized bowl, and finish as before. This is the more useful way, when largo quantities have to be dealt with, and the fat will keep well. In hot weather it will assist the “ setting ” if tho vessel containing the fat be set in a second vessel containing cold water, with a handful of salt to tho half gallon. If wanted quickly set it on ice. It is always important, if possible, to keep pork dripping in a separate vessel. Other drippings may be mixed, unless there is a special objection to mutton dripping, then that must be kept apart; but if treated as above, it will be found very useful, and with no disagreeable flavour. Fat, to clarify.—The fat may be cooked or uncooked, or mixed; but if cooked fat is used it should bo put in towards the end, not with the raw fat. Fat from beef, mutton, &c., can be clarified altogether. The trimmings of joints, chops, steaks, &c., skinny portions of suet, and all similar odds and ends, may be used up. See that not a particle is tainted, or any bits of lean left in. Cut all up small, about half an inch square. If tho homo supply runs short, fat can often be bought of the butcher for 5d. or Cd. per pound. Put all into an iron saucepan, and add enough water to create steam; half a pint will sufficeKITCHEN PROCESSES. 7 for four pounds. Boil gently with tho lid otf (mind it does not get smoked) for a couple of hours, or more; stir now and then. When done, the liquid portion will look clear, and the bits of fat will be brown, dry, and shrivelled looking. Let it cool a little, then strain it through an old hair sieve in which has been laid a piece of muslin; see that the jar or basin is dry; set it by until cold, when a solid cake of nice white fat will be the result -of the task. This is some little trouble; for that reason it is well to prepare several pounds at a time. Use this for frying purposes generally, plain cakes, pastry, and the like; other uses for it are referred to in various parts of this work. Fat, Frying, to clarify after using.— It is not necessary to clarify fat every time it is used, a good deal depends upon the nature of the article which has been fried in it; but, by clarifying it now and again, it may be kept a good colour for some time. After it is taken from the fire it must cool a while; it would be dangerous to deal with it in its heated condition. It should then be poured into a good-sized basin of water, as directed for the clarification of dripping, and finished as there de- scribed. Whether clarified or not, it always needs straining; if poured off carefully, a good deal of the sediment will be left behind in the frying kettle; this should be wiped out with a coarse cloth kept for the purpose, and placed where the air has free access to it. It must be kept dry, and wiped out, for fear of dust, every time it is used. Goose Lard. — This is generally termed “goose grease.” When the goose is drawn, strip the fat from tho intestines and take tho leaf of fat from the inside. Throw it into a bowl of cold water with a little salt; change the water a few times and leave until next day. Then cut tho fat up and put it in a saucepan; add a few slices of raw apple or a chopped onion ; melt over a slow fire, pour off through a hot strainer into a jar, add a pinch of wilt, and tie down when quite cold. Store in a cool place. Sometimes only the leaf fat is used, not that from the in- testines. This is a German recipe. The fat of geese is there used for bast- ing and other culinary purposes. Some English readers who have hitherto used goose fat in other ways may like to make trial of it in the kitchen. Lard.—Home -made lard is very superior to a good deal of the bought lard, and will beep almost indefinitely. Prepare it by taking the Head or inner fat of a pig, freshly killed. Clear it from all trace of skin and blood, ar.d cut it up small. Put it in a dry stone jar, and set this in a pan of boiling water, over the fire; keep the water boiling gently, and as fast as the fat melts pour it off into small dry jars or bladders. If jars are used, they should be tied over with bladder before they are put away, and they must be stored in a dry, cool place. The last drain- ings of the fat will not be so clear or pale as the first. Sometimes rosemary and other flavourings are added to lard, but it is more generally useful when made as above directed. The Head is also used for pastry, cakes, &c., and may be kept in an unmelted state by rub- bing it with salt and leaving it for a day, then putting it in brine made by boiling salt and water until strong enough to float an egg. When wanted for use, the dead must be wiped and put into cold water for an hour before it is cut up. In warm weather the brine must bo renewed after a few days or the flead will not keep. Marrow, clarified.—Prepared in this way, marrow may be kept for a long time—for some months in a cold place. It must bo taken from the bones as soon as possible—this is of importance —then cut small and put in a jar, covered, and set in a saucepan of hot water to three-fourths its depth, and melted at a gentle heat. The water should just simmer. When all is melted, strain it through muslin into another vessel; let it settle for a few minutes, then pour it into small dry jars. When quite cold, tie or pastoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 8 some thick paper over, then cover with bladder or vegetable parchment, the same as Jams and Jellies are treated. If more convenient, melt the marrow in a cool oven; the jar must be set in a tin of water, or the colour will not be so good. Suet, to clarify.—Free the suet from skin, fibre, &c., chop it, or shred it thinly, and melt it as directed for lard. Or, put it in a large saucepan of boil- ing water; stir now and then until dissolved; then pour the whole into a shallow vessel, and, when cold, take off the cake of fat from the top ; wipe the bottom quite dry. Again melt it, then strain it through muslin into jars for use. This can be used for frying, or for plain cakes or pastry, and other purposes. If it is required to keep the suet, melt it as at first directed, pouring it off as soon as it melts into a pan of cold water. When hard, wipe the cake of fat; wrap it in grease-proof or vegetable parchment paper, then put it in a linen bag and hang it in a cool placo. "When required for use scrape it thinly ; it can then bo used as drip- ping. Fresh suet will keep for several days, if the veiny parts bo removed, in plenty of flour, in a dry place. Frying is, by some writers, com- pared with boiling, and spoken of as “ boiling in fat.” So far as the im- mersion of the food in liquid goes the simile is a fair one, but there it ends; for not only is the heat of hot fat greatly in excess of that of water, but it varies according to the nature of the food to be cooked; while anything cooked in boiling water (except where the temperature is chemically increased) is subject to a fixed degree of heat. As a rule, the smaller the article to be fried the greater the heat of the fat— whitebait, the tiniest of fish, is an instance of this. But to fry, according to the pre- conceived ideas of the average English cook, consists in cooking, say, a sole, in a pan but little deeper than the sole itself, and with barely enough fat to keep it from sticking to the pan; probably cold fat is put in in little dabs from time to time, to make matters worse. The first thing to grasp, then, is that the fat must be plentiful. This is not really extrava- gant, as there is very little waste, for the fat reduces but little in the using, and will serve again and again so long as it is not allowed to burn; whereas, by the scrappy process above referred to, not only is the food spoiled, but the fat is burnt, and what little remains is thrown away. It may, however, be asked, is it not possible to cook anything in a small quantity of fat? Certainly; many things are more conveniently cooked by what is know in this country as the “ dry-frying ” process, and a know- ledge of the two methods and of their underlying principles will prevent failure. We will come to this dry- frying presently. Meantime, the first thing in proper frying is to see that the fat is sweet, and care should be taken that it be allowed to heat slowly. The vessel should not be more than from half to three-parts filled. Attention to those rules may prevent accident; a pan of fat heated quickly is liable to “boil over,” and as the temperature for ordinary purposes should reach about 3o0°, a splash of hot fat on the face or arms is an accident to be remem- bered. A great secret of success is to allow the fat to attain the proper degree of heat; generally speaking, it should be hot enough to at once slightly brown the surface, and form a coating sufficient to keep in the flavour and j uices of the food itself, and prevent the entrance of the fat. If only half heated, the product of the pan must be greasy, sodden, and indigestible; for unless the food, whatever its nature, crisps at first, it will never crisp as it should do. To know when fat is hot, watch and listen. So long as a bub- bling crackling sound can be heard it is only getting hot; when it becomes quite still, it is hot. Shortly a pale bluish vapour will be visible; it is then9 KITCHEN PROCESSES. hot enough for most purposes. An- other test, more convenient sometimes, is to throw in a bit of bread: it will change to golden colour directly if the fat is ready; if it remains pale and soft, wait a little longer. The frying medium may be “ clari- fied fat” from cooked joints, or from fresh pieces bought purposely ; good sweet dripping and pot skimmings, or lard; while oil is declared by some to be the only thing worth using. Olive oil is the best, but too expensive for general use; cotton-seed oil, if pure, is excellent, but it is often adulterated, and gives rise to an unpleasant odour; and for either kind great care is neces- sary in using it. For the majority, then, clarified fat is the best and safest thing, and the method of preparing it has been fully detailed in the preceding section. Mutton fat is sometimes said to impart a tallowy flavour to food, but that is when it is not hot enough; we do not recommend it singly, but it may lertainly be mixed with other fats. Equal parts of beef suet, lard, and mutton fat, are a favourite mixture with some ; and lard and beef dripping are preferred by others. Of lard itself, we can only say that it must be pure. Very much of the low-priced lard now sold is watery (due to a certain treat- ment with lime, by which it is made to absorb water). This is absolutely use- less, and nothing fried in it will brown properly. But whatever is used must be perfectly free from taint, also from salt, as this retards browning. Butter is too costly for use in quantities ; and if it were not, it would not be satisfac- tory—when heated up to a high point, it has many objectionable features. And now a few words respecting the vessel. A proper frying-kettle as in Fig. 7 is deep, with a wire drainer fitted into it, which can be lifted in and out by the handles. But in many cases an ordinary saucepan will answer, or, better still, a stew-pan; from four to five inches deep, and nine to ten inches in diameter is a handy size ; and if a frying-basket be bought to fit, it will serve for almost any purpose. The handle of the frying- Fic. S.—Fryixc-Basket. basket should be bent as in Fig. 8, so that the basket may go to the very bottom of the saucepan. The best material is copper, next to that steel, heavily tinned; iron pans aye also used, but unless of the very best quality are not satisfactory. After frying, the fat should be left to coo], then strained, and put away in jars for use, that for fish being kept apart from that used for general purposes. It must also be clarified when neces- sary (fee page 7). Tho frying- kettle should lie put away, not only clean, but thoroughly dry. A lest of good frying is freedom from grease: to ensure this, lay the fish, or what- AUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 10 ever it may be, on a clean cloth or sheet of kitchen paper near the fire for a few seconds, turning them a few times; but as greasiness is usually due to under-heated fat, it may be prevented, or reduced to a minimum. The foregoing remarks will enable anyone to understand the leading prin- ciples of frying; and for detailed re- cipes for the treatment of the various kinds of food reference must be made to their respective headings. Frying, Dry. —For this, the or- dinary shallow frying-pan is used, and a small quantity of fat only is re- quired ; and the inexperienced cook would do well to prepare two dishes, one by each of the two frying pro- cesses, and prove by the practical ex- periment how utterly futile must be any attempt to make one do duty for the other, particularly so far as using the shallow pan in place of the deep one is concerned. The frying-pan, in spite of the fact that a recent writer ex- pressed the wish that every one cost a guinea (because of its universal abuse, we imagine), is a very handy article when properly used. Pancakes, eggs, sausages, liver and bacon, are among the many edibles that can be cooked in it; and at a pinch, chops and steaks. We say at a pinch advisedly, for several reasons. First, fried meats by this method are not usually a success, and great care is needed to avoid toughness and loss of the juices, and we regard it as nothing short of bar- barism to cook really good meat in a frying-pan* when other methods are practicable. But supposing a steak or chop td be required in a hurry, or a fiying-panto be the only handy utensil, much may be done by the application of a little simple science. First, take the common mode of procedure. What must happen if a cold chop, a cold pan, and a little dab of cold fat, are put over a fire, probably smoky as well as low, and allowed to become gradually heated together? Briefly, one of tho most * W'e are not here referring to cutlets, &c., cooked in a saute-pan. indigestible and horrible messes it is possible to produce. The juices of tho meat will run out, the liquid fat will bo absorbed, while as to flavour—this can be left to tho imagination. But the right way is very simple. A clean pan and a clear fire for a start; hot fat, however small tho quantity ; a due closing of the pores on both sides, with more gradual cooking afterwards; in short, the aim should be to imitate as far as possible a grilled or broiled chop. Glazing.—To glaze is to give a gloss or varnish to meat, game, or poultry, both hot and cold, by which a vast improvement is made in the appearance of the dish. As, how- ever, the glrtzing process, or rather the kind and strength of tho glaze, varies according to tho nature of the dish, we will first describe glaze itself before detailing tho ways of varying and using it. Ordinary “ glaze,” then, is a strong stock, which should be clear and free from salt, boiled down to a thick, syrupy mass, rather like treacle, which eventually sets into a substance not unlike glue. In old cookery books recipes for glaze direct that enormous quantities of beef and veal be boiled down for the stock, which no doubt was very good, but which would be simply ruinous in the present day. Anything of a gelatinous nature will make stock for glaze; amongst the most suitable are knuckles of veal, legs and shins of beef, shanks of mutton, and poultry trimmings. In hotels or large houses, where there is a good supply of stock from the materials above described—more, in fact, than is wanted for other purposes—it “ pays ” perhaps to make glaze. But it does not pay in private houses, for setting aside the fact that a pint of strong stock will only produce about an ounce of glaze (even supposing that nearly a pound of meat has been used for it), it is very troublesome; indeed, glaze is one of those things that aro much better when made on a large scale than11 KITCHEN PROCESSES. a small one. First, a copper stowpan is an absolute necessity, as the heat must be uniform ; in this the stock is boiled quickly until syrupy; it is then to be stirred until the exact point is reached when a little poured on a plate sets quickly. Experienced cooks can determine this by taking up a morsel on the point of a knife and twirling it in the air; but a novice would most likely be a second or two too late, and spoil the whole. For private houses, then, we advise the purchase of glaze in skins, to be had of grocers everywhere. It keeps indefinitely, and the average price is about two shillings per pound. It is important to keep the glaze in a dry place. When wanted for use, remove the skin, and cut it in slices or small pieces, and to every ounce add a spoon- ful of water or pale clear stock, and melt it, either in a glaze pot (on the principle of a glue pot) or in a jar set into a saucepan of boiling water, on the bain-marie principle. There must be water round the vessel containing the glaze; if placed directly over the fire it would burn. Naturally, the less water added the darker will be the glaze, and at one time it was hardly possible to get it too dark. Now, paler glaze is the fashion — indeed, for certain dishes, aspic jelly has taken its place, but we will speak of that later— therefore, when what is termed “ thin glaze ” is required, simply add more water. But there is another way of making glaze—or perhaps we ought to say a substitute—by a very quick and economical method, thanks to gelatine for the basis, and extract of nfeat, which gives the desired colour. Half an ounce of gelatine will make half a pint of strong glaze if a good teaspoon- ful of extract of meat be added. The gelatine is to be dissolved in the water before the extract is added. A few drops of liquid browning, or a little soy, will give a deeper colour if desired. For paler glaze, reduce the extract. This kind, we must add, is not intended to keep; it is to bo made just as required ; and the proportions of gelatine and water are to be re- garded only as approximate. The strength of the gelatine and the state of the weather must be considered (see remarks on this subject in the chapter upon Jellies, etc.). And this brings us to the use of aspic for glazing, for which reference must be made to Aspic Jelly. We would add here, however, that dark glaze is still used for joints and tongues, though hams, as well as poultry, are thought to look better when coated with aspic. This, however, may be a passing fashion, and the use of either medium is a matter for individual decision. In some cases, a compromise is effected by using aspic with just a hint of extract of meat to give more colour; and this is a very satisfactory glazing medium, for it must be owned that, for cold dishes which are kept long in cut, there is one drawback attending the use of ordinary glaze—viz., the meat has a tendency to get dry on the sur- face, which makes the carving more difficult, and necessitates the outer portion of each slice being left on the plates. Whatever the material used, the glaze is applied with a brush, which should be kept for the purpose, and always washed as soon as done with. The best kind are of badger hair with tin handles, but a little brush such as is used for glazing pastry will answer the purpose for occasional use. To ensure success, one or two points must be borne in mind. The meat must be perfectly cold before the glaze is applied, and if a second coating is wahted the first must be quite dry. The glaze itself must bo warm and liquid, and it goes without saying that if the meat is not cold, or the weather is very hot, or a warm place bo chosen for the operation, it will run off almost as fast as it is put on. The cellar is the best place to work in, and if many dishes are being glazed, and required to set quickly for further ornamenta- tion, they should be put upon ice. After the glazing, the various dishesUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 12 often undergo a further ornamental process (cold dishes, we mean); these are detailed in the chapter on Garnishes. For hot dishes, let the glaze he applied evenly, the colour being con- sistent with the kind of meat. Fillets of beef will take a darker glaze than sweetbreads. In the foregoing directions we have referred to the use of glaze in connec- tion with meat, game, and poultry; hut a few words are necessary with respect to the finishing off of many other dishes by glazing. By way of example, croutons, and various sorts of “borders” may he mentioned; but thero are hosts of other dishes that may be so treated with advantage, to which reference is made under their respective headings in subsequent chapters. What we would here point out is the fact that in many instances something is sprinkled over the dish after glazing ; the glaze, therefore, has two uses : it is in itself ornamental, and also serves the purpose of cement- ing, so to speak, the final garnish, which may bo parsley, chopped eggs (first boiled hard), shredded ham or tongue, etc. Then, glaze serves to enrich brown sauces, as will bo seen from our recipes; and it may be useful to point out that it is well to dissolve the glaze separately before adding it, unless the sauce can he stirred all the time, and full time allowed for it to dissolve. But it often happens that when several dishes are on hand, a hit of glaze is found very useful at tho last moment for a sauco or gravy that may appear to he not quite “ up to the mark,” cither in colour or consistence. We recommend, therefore, that a supply of glaze be kept in liquid form, ready for any emergency. Lastly, we must mention glaze in connection with rich, clear gravy, to which it is added just to give a sticki- ness and certain amount of body, without impairing its brightness, i.r., in instances where a little very good gra ry is w'anted, Such as is sometimes poured round savoury omelettes. Such gravies are further detailed in the recipes for the particular dish which they are intended to accompany. Grilling.—This mode of cooking can only be carried out perfectly where forethought is the order of the day : a clear bright fire, a perfectly clean gridiron, and tender, well-hung meat, being the chief desiderata ; with these, and close watchfulness, with judgment in taking up the meat at the right time, small dainty dishes may be cooked in a most digestible and ap- petising manner. The fire may bo cleared by throwing on a handful of salt, and coke is useful for mixing with cinders, which should be put on in good time. Tho gridiron must be made hot, and then rubbed over with mutton suet or salad oil before the meat is laid on ; or the meat itself may bo brushed over with oil; a sprinkling of pepper may also be added, but salt never, it would harden the meat. The gridiron should be put near the fire in a slanting direction, and as soon as the pores of the meat are closed on one side, it should be turned, in order that the other side may be so treated, after which the gridiron may he slightly raised, and kept so until the meat is done. A pair of steak-tongs are em- ployed by good cooks for turning the meat, but a spoon will answer the pur- pose, or a skewer may be passed into the fat part, but never into the lean, or the gravy will run out, and the meat be spoilt. As to the turning of the meat, it is a disputed point whether once only during the process is correct, or whether very frequent turning is desirable. We recommend the latter method, once every minute, as the most generally successful. The time must be regulated by the weather, the kind of meat, and its quality; the latter is important, for only good meat may safely be subjected to the fierce heat at starting necessary for the sealing-up of the juices, and. the production of the rich dark brownKITCHEN" PROCESSES. 13 outside with the red juiciness of the interior, which betoken the perfect grill. For a beef-steak or a mutton chop, from eight to twenty minutes may be regarded as the approximate, but the latter would be enough for a very thick steak. For a mutton cutlet cut thinly a very few minutes is suf- ficient, because the thinner the meat the greater may be the heat from start to finish : that is to say, the grid need not be raised as it is for thicker pieces; and while beef and mutton are pre- ferred underdone, it must be borne in mind that pork and veal must be thoroughly and more slowly cooked. A little experience will enable anyone to tell when the happy medium has been reached. The meat will be firm and free from flabbiness, without being hard, and the gravy will settle in a clot on the surface when ready for dishing; and then, the hottest of hot dishes and the quickest • of quick service should give the finishing touches. As to sauce, many contend that hunger is the best, but some prefer a spoonful of ketchup or store sauce poured on the dish, or a pat of MaItue d’Hotel Butter is sometimes served with steaks. Many other sauces are also employed to give a distinctive character to the grill. A separate gridiron should be kept for fish, for however well it may be washed, the heat will bring out the flavour ; and this, after a bloater has been cooked, is notxalculated to improve a lamb chop ! So far, we have assumed the use of the plain single gridiron: there are many varieties, from wire ones, costing but a few ponce, to the enamelled iron, with fluted bars and a well for the drippings—not the gravy, that should be kept in the meat. Then there are double gridirons, by the use of which the turning of the meat is dispensed with, it is only necessary to reverse the gndiron. The revolving gridiron is a very good one, and by just touching it the meat is moved without the aid of a skewer or fork, therefore there is no fear that the gravy will be lost. A kidney or bird, split through the middle, should always be placed cut side down first. (For the grilling of fish—see Fish.) Larding and Barding.— Lard- ing is more difficult in theory than in practice; every woman who can use a needle ought to be able to lard, though it cannot be denied that speed and neatness are attained only after a few experiments; success at first cannot bo expected. In warm weather the bacon has a tendency to “run,” and to obviate this the lardoons should be laid on a tin set upon ice ns soon as cut. A cool hand is a deside- ratum. “ Lardoons ” is the term applied to the strips of bacon used,14 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and these vary in size according to the nature of the meat to he larded. The needles must therefore be sized to suit the moat; two or three are required in every kitchen where good cooking is done. The illustration above shows the shape; one end is split, and the other pointed. For white meats, bacon cured without saltpetre is required. At most high-class provision shops special “ larding bacon ” is stocked, or got to order. In using the needle, the lardoon is inserted into the split end, and the point put into the meat, j ust like taking a stitch when sewing. The needle must be held firmly at first, then, after the bacon has been drawn through the meat, a portion sticking out at each end (see illustration above) it must be very gently withdrawn. Supposing, that is, that the lardoon was two inches long to start with, an inch will be left in the meat, and half an inch will project at each end. Nearly a quarter of an inch thick, and rather wider, is the average for lardoons of two inches or rather less in length ; but they vary. For small birds, cut- lets, etc., they are smaller all ways. To prepare them evenly, the bacon should be cut into slices, and these, laid one on another, are cut with a sharp knife. After larding, the bacon, if at all uneven, must be trimmed nicely with a pair of sharp scissors. In larding poultry it is very neces- sary to remember that the bacon must be so used that when the bird is carved there shall only be little spots of fat here and there, instead of long strips. That is, the larding needle must he used in just the opposite direction that will be taken later on by the carving knife, in order that each slice may contain a good number of these morsels of fat, as in the case of the breast of a turkey. On the other hand, if larded in the contrary direc- tion, in cutting the bird there would be just here and there long strips of fat—very unsightly and disagreeable. Such errors ns this are easily pre- vented, and arise usually from want of thought. Another hint is necessary with respect to the appearance of larded meats. When cooked, it happens sometimes that the lardoons are too conspicuous, either from being too long at first, or from the cooking not having been sharp enough. These pieces of bacon, then, which have a partially melted appearance, must be crisped up, either at a good fire or by the aid of a salamander or hot shovel. Either of these latter methods is the safer for the novice, as there is less fear of the meat getting too dry or burning. After this drying a little glaze should be brushed over the meat to brighten it up. All sorts of game and many small birds are improved by larding (or barding, see later on), but we may especially instance the back and thighs of a hare, the breast of a turkey, a fricandeau of veal, and sweetbreads; in the case of hare, some cooks go so far as to say that if not larded it is not worth the trouble of cooking. So far we have referred to what we may call surface larding. There is another way, that is to cut strips of bacon of good length, and thick in proportion, which will go right through the meat; if a steak of two inches thick the strips must be three inches long. For very thick meats, one side may be larded in this way, and the needle passed through, leaving most of the lardoons inside the meat. The other side is then treated in the same way. By this means any dry meat is greatly improved, and when the ordinary larding pins are not large enough, one called a dobing (or daub- ing) pin is substituted. These are very strong, and cost from two to four shillings each; larding pins may he got, in assorted sizes, at three to four shillings per dozen. In addition to bacon, other materials are sometimes used for the purpose of addingflavour to meat; amongst others, truffles, anchovies, tongue, and gher- kins ; their insertion into the meat must be carefully performed to avoid breaking them, and a needle largeKITCHEN PROCESSES. 15 enough to take them easily should be used. barding.—This operation may he called a ready substitute for larding. To harder is to envelop the article— usually game or poultry—in bacon, the slice of bacon used being called the barde ; in this, slits should be made in a crosswise direction, in either of the ways shown below, or some similar manner. Barding is much less trouble than larding, and many cooks favour it for that reason; and while it cannot be said to be quite the game in its effect as larding, it is at the same time very useful for dry meats, such ns require almost constant basting, as it renders them proof against the dry- ness that will result if they are put down to the fire minus bacon in any form, especially if the basting be neglected at the start, as it often is, owing to the number of things that require attention at the same time. Pheasants, hares, guinea fowl, and small birds generally, may all be barded, and the sending the barde to table or removing it is optional. If served, as it frequently is, with a roasted pheasant, it should always be glazed. When boiled poultry is enveloped in bacon, that is always to be taken off. Precisely the same sort of bacon is required for barding as for larding, viz., free from saltpetre, and the slices must be thinly and evenly cut; after trimming the edges, they should be smoothed out with a palette knife, and kept very cool until ready for use. Roasting.—We all know that a good roast of the old-fashioned kind is well-nig'h obsolete, and not a few appear to regard it in the light of a national calamity. There is, how- ever, much to be said on both sides. First, the advantages, which are briefly as follows:—It is easy to baste the meat, and assuming it to be well hung, tenderness is certain. The joint, being surrounded by air, has a flavour peculiarly its own, and the required degree of colour is easily attained. Roast meat is also very nourishing, as there is less dissipation of its nutritive juices than when cooked by other pro- cesses. Now for the disadvantages:— Cost, both of fuel and time. Discom- fort, due to the large fire and the necessary close proximity thereto, on account of the almost incessant basting. Loss of weight, due to the melting of the fat and the evaporation of the water; though, as a set-off, the reten- tion of the nutriment (which remains condensed in the cooked solid) must not be forgotten. On this point we know thero is much controversy ; some scientists contend that meat loses less in roasting than in baking; but the majority agree that thero is greater loss in roasting than by any other method of cooking, though much depends on tho degree of heat and quality and size of the joint. To roast is to cook by exposing the meat to tho direct action of tho fire, the object being the retention of the16 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. juices. The first consideration is the fire; it must be made up in time, in order to be bright, clear, and strong. The grate should be large enough to cover the joint, with an inch or two to spare at the sides. All dust must be removed from the bottom of the grate ; small knobbly pieces of coal should be packed at the front, and cinders, mixed with a little damp coal- dust, behind. This helps to retain the heat, besides throwing it to the front, where it is wanted. Coal in small quan- tities should be added now and again, to avoid a thorough making-up of the fire during tile roasting. Whatever the apparatus used it must be clean, and the hook should not be pushed through the prime, juicy part of the joint. The full perfection of a roast is due in a great measure to the amount of basting it receives, and to well-hung meat. Moat just killed is not suitable for roasting. Inattention to the basting will result in a dry horny surface and an unpleasant odour. The fat should be poured off as soon as it flows freely, only enough for the basting being kept in the pan. The greatest heat should be given at the outset, by putting the joint near the fire, to coagulate the outer albumen and keep in the gravy. Basting with hot fat at the start is a help in this direc- tion. Then move it farthor back, to cook gradually until done, when it has been down from five to ten minutes. The average time required is fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes over for beef and mutton, and twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over for young animals, as veal and lamb ; while pork, if thick, may require from twenty to thirty minutes per pound. So much depends upon the thickness of the joint, the weather, and other circum- stances, that the time given must only be regarded as an approximation. And the shape of a joint determines to a great extent the time required; and we specially mention this, as it is but seldom grasped, or even considered. To illustrate our meaning, supposing a neck or breast of mutton weighing four pounds were required: it would take but little more time than if divided and half or three-quarters were cooked ; and why ? Because the whole surface, assuming a sufficiently wide grate, would be exposed equally to the action of heat; hence a cut-and-dried rule of a certain time for a certain weight, even allowing for the difference in thickness, would in such a case be obviously non-applicable. In frosty weather meat should be brought into the kitchen an hour or two before it is cooked, or when dishing-up time comes it may be found that the happy medium between cinders and rawness has not been hit. All meats take longer in winter than summer: and it must not be forgotten that while beef and mutton are preferred by many when somewhat underdone, meats of the close-grained kind are indigestible in the highest degree unless well cooked. A word about flour. Many are of opinion that meat browns better if floured at first; but, given a good fire and sufficient basting, there is no need for it, so far as imparting colour goes. And it is a common fault to use too much ; a little is not objectionable, but it should be put on away from the dripping-tin if a clear gravy is desired. To “ froth” the meat, it should be well basted a few minutes before dishing, then lightly floured, and put near the fire. Every trace of the raw flour must disappear—that is, it must cook and become brown. Never add salt at first, it hardens meat and draws out the gravy. A little may bo sprinkled on last thing, after the dripping has been poured off. When the steam rises it is a proof that the joint is saturated with heat, and any unnecessary evaporation is a waste of the nutriment; and if the flesh yields readily to tho pressure of the fingers it is a further sign that it is done. A warning concerning the dripping may save much disappointment. It need not be separately put by for basting from the various kinds, but it is most important that oidy good17 KITCHEN PROCESSES. sweet dripping be used to baste a joint. To begrudge the trouble of clarifica- tion, to mix fresh with stale—perhaps in summer-time there may be a sus- picion of putridity—or to use fat which lias been poured from game, for meat, ale all grave mistakes, which may be easily avoided by the exercise of a little common sense. The usual method employed for roasting meat is to hang a bottle-jack on the movable bar placed for its re- ception on the front of the mantelshelf, to suspend the wheel from the jack, and to hang the meat by a hook from the wheel. A screen made of tin, or lined with it, is then put in front of the tire to keep in the heat (it serves too as a plate wanner), and the jack is wound up two or three times whilst a joint is being roasted. By a modem improvement the bar can be Fio. 11.—Bottle-Jack and Sckekx. altogether dispensed with, and the jack fastened above the screen, which is so made that the heat will be con- densed as much as possible (Fig. 11). Those who do not wish to go to the expense of a bottle-jack may find an economical substitute for the bottle- jack in the chimney screw-jack, which may be fastened upon any mantelshelf when wanted, and unscrewed when done with. It requires a little more watching than the ordinary bottle- jack, but if a key be hung upon the hook with six or seven thicknesses of worsted wound round it, one end of which is fastened to the meat-hook, the twisting and untwisting of the worsted cord will cause a rotary motion like that produced by the more expensive bottle-jack. The Salamander and its Uses.—A very handy utensil, known as a salamander, is made of iron, and may be bought either with or without a stand. The article itself costs about four shillings, or, with the Btand, nearly double that sum. In the latter form its utility is considerably increased, as it is only necessary to fix it in position over the dish which requires browning. The salamander must be made red- hot, and the length of time which is necessary to brown the dish, and the nearness of its proximity to the sala- mander, depend entirely upon the nature of the viand and the degree of brownness desired. In most cases a few seconds is long enough, and the dish must never be placed near enough to scorch. A salamander is almost indispensable in houses where appearances are studied, for it will give just the one “ finishing touch ” to many dishes which raises them from the ordinary or commonplace to the artistic and high- class at no increased cost whatever save that of a minute’s time and trouble. An old shovel may be used as a sub- stitute, and is better than nothing at all; but it is hardly necessary to point out that shovels which are made red- hot very often will not last long, and a salamander will be found the cheapest in the long run.18 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. To Sauter.—This is a French term, the corresponding English one is to “ shake ” or to “ toss. ” The cutlet, kidney, &c., so cooked is put into a saute-pan, and cooked in fat—butter usually—at a lower temperature than fiying propel-, and frequently shaken. The surface of the article is therefore less brown and crisp than when fried ; little known. This probably arises from the fact that many writers on cookery ignore it altogether, though it is difficult to understand why. The most familiar form of steamer is the ordinary one (see Fig. 4) used for pota- toes (though the uses of this humble member of the family need not be confined to potatoes); next come the Fia. 12.—Steamino Apparatus. a, Water vessel placed on stove, supplied by spout at o; ccc, Flues up the side of each steamer to convey the steam ; f. e, Valves to admit or shut off steam for each separate vessel. and sometimes the cooking is only partially effected in the fat, that being poured off and gravy or sauce substi- tuted for the finishing of the process. To Sweat is a somewhat vulgar term applied to the semi-cooking or semi-frying, usually of vegetables in- tended for soups and purees, and will be fully explained under Vegetam.es. Steaming.—This is a branch of the culinary art far less practised than it deserves to he, and is comparatively same kind in two or three tiers ; hut the highest development of the idea is to be found in “ improved steamers,” in which the viands do not come in contact with the steam from each other, each article being in its own compartment and imparting no flavour to the others. Of the last-named kind Fig. 12 gives an idea, as it is shown both in perspective and in sec- tion. The boiling water for the generation of the steam is in this apparatus put in at the spout of the bottom utensil a, and when any article19 COOKING PROCESSES. is cooked enough, but has to be kept hot, it is only necessary to close the valve e. Such can be used on a close range or over a gas or oil stove with equal success. A compartment can be added or taken away, and some of these compound steamers are of sufficient magnitude to fur- nish a dinner of several courses for a dozen people. The chief advantages are economy of fuel and time, and of the food itself, both in bulk and weight. In the case of a leg of mutton, from half a pint to a pint of good gravy, which in the ordinary way would be lost by evaporation, will be forthcoming. Then the slow' cooking and retention of the juices make the meat very tender and digestible, and particularly suitable for people of weak digestion. Last, but not least, space is economised, and “ washing up ” is reduced to a mini- mum. Now, to use the potato steamer, or some equally simple kind, we w'ill sup- pose that an experiment is about to be made by steaming a piece of meat. It will not do to put it into the steamer without further trouble; a dish or tin just large enough to hold it, and rather smaller than the steamer, should be used. This will preserve any liquor that may escape, and the meat should be turned a time or two. The water should boil fast all the time, and rather more time must be given for steaming than for boiling. Discretion must be exercised as to the boiling of anything in the water under the steamer. In such a case as we have referred to—i.e., steaming of a small portion of meat— carrots or turnips might be cooked with it in the steamer round the dish holding the meat, while plain suet dumplings might be boiled under- neath. It does not do to boil any- thing that would impart either a disagreeable taste or colour to the article steamed, but by the exercise of forethought the number of cook- ing utensils going at once might often be reduced. Thus, in boiling rice or macaroni, a pudding of the most delicate kind, in a mould writh a lid, or covered with a sheet of paper, could bo steamed overit; or, supposing the cooking of two puddings to be going on simultaneously, one of jam and ono of fruit, both with a suet crust, the steam from ono could not injure the other. Such instances might be multiplied indefinitely. But not the least of the steamer’s uses is that of re-heating food, a good deal of which is wasted in the ordinary ways of re-warming; or, if not actually wasted, its nourishing properties are diminished, and it is rendered indi- gestible. Stewing.—This is a mode much favoured by the French; and while there is much difference of opinion as to the wholesomeness of stews in general, there is no questioning the economy of the process, not only on account of the small quantity of fuel needed, but because food cooked in this way, even if coarse and hard in itself, may be rendered tender and palatable; while it is certain that a pound of meat stewed with plenty of vegetables and gravy will go farther in furnishing a meal for a given num- ber than would the same weight of meat (of even the best quality) if cooked by any other process. Then there is absolutely no waste of nutri- ment. “ But a stew boiled is a stew spoiled,” and this is the stumbling- block. Stewing is often confounded with boiling, but a far lower tempera- ture is desirable, particularly for gristly tough portions, and the toughest meat may be made tender by the addition of a little vinegar. In France a sour apple is sometimes substituted, the acid has a softening effect on animal fibres. The long slow cooking will drive off most of the acidity, so that there will be no unpleasant sourness. Among other advantages of a stew should be noted the fact that when vegetables are added, as they usually are in some form, much valuable saline matter is introduced into tho system, which, in the case of plainly-boiled vegetables20 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. eaten apart from their liquor, is lost; and herbs too are a wholesome addi- tion. The temperature of the water (or better, stock, if only from bones) is not unimportant, and about this, again, the “doctors disagree.” Now, most people know that cold water extracts the juices (if about to make beef-tea, where the meat itself is not to be used, this would be the plan of action); all admit this, and the meat, though tender, will lose its flavour and good- ness. What matter, say some, you will have it in the gravy. Granted; but on the other hand, it is argued, and rightly, that such meat is stringy, and far less easy of digestion than when the juices are retained, if only partially ; and so boiling water, or gravy, at start- ing, is pronounced by others the thing. True, this closes the pores, and leaves the meat with its full flavour, but unless it is of excellent quality—and inferior meat is usually employed—it will remain hard. Therefoi'e, the prac- tical solution of the difficulty lies in the adoption of the medium tempera- ture ; for it must not be forgotten that often very small pieces are used, and are thus utilised to the best advantage ; but to expose so many cut surfaces to the action of cold or boiling' liquid has equal and obvious disadvantages. The quality of the meat, too, must be con- sidered. Briefly, we advise cold water for any tough, gristly parts ; warm for meat such as steaks of medium quality ; while for prime meats for choice ragouts the temperature may be nearly boiling point. We quote from Mr. Buckmaster’s “ Hints on Stewing,” as follows:—All the gristly parts—the feet, shanks, knuckles — should be stewed. There is no other way of cooking these parts to advantage. They require time, and this is often the difficulty and objection; but what is there to prevent a woman, when the family are all sitting round the fire in the evening, thinking about to- morrow’s dinner? The fire which warms the children will also cook their dinner. The great vice of most women, not only among the poor, but among the middle classes, is that they never think of cooking till they feel hungry. Trimmings of all kinds of meat can sometimes be purchased cheaply. A woman who has but little to spend should watch her opportunities. Sheep’s feet, the shank-bones of legs of mutton, and pieces of bone and ox-tails to the tan-yard; and even now much goes there which could be turned to good account. As to the best utensils * for making stew, a copper pan, for those who can afford it, is hard to beat, but it must be kept well-tinned. Steel is good and durable, and that or a well-tinned iron pan may bo used for the most delicate dishes. Of earthenware, the best are the French fire-proof china, because they are non-absorbent; while the worst are those of an absorbent kind. Nothing cooked in such a vessel can have a fresh flavour, and to their use may be due, in a measure, the com- plaint made by some that “all stews taste alike.” But this is the fault of the individual, and may easily be avoided. Again, such jars are often carelessly washed, and the thickening used for the gravy is perhaps allowed to “ cake ” on the bottom, with a most unpleasant result so far as the next stew made in it is concerned, for any- thing of a delicate flavour would be hopelessly ruined. A stew from fat meat or with a greasy gravy is an abomination; and such errors, together with those above indicated, may have called forth the assertion of a certain writer that a cook who can make a stew free from grease does not exist. This is sheer nonsense, and calculated to do mischief, by depriving those to whom money is an object of a host of savoury and economical meals. * See final section on The Kitchen and Cookino Utensils for details of various cook- ing apparatus.HORS D’CEUVRES. GENERAL REMARKS. The custom among Continental nations of commencing dinner with some savoury plat, which shall stimulate a jaded appetite or serve as a whet to the palate, is gaining ground, probably more in deference to fashion than from individual requirement. As to the wisdom of the practice, much difference of opinion exists. On the one hand, it is asserted that such dishes are injurious where appetite and digestion are lacking, and that given a good appetite, they are quite unnecessary; while ou the other, it is urged that they are in many eases of real benefit. But between the two extremes—from the Russian habit of indulging in several varieties of highly-flavoured food, followed by strong liqueur or spirit, to the oyster served au naturel, declared by many to be the hors cl'oeuvre par excellence —there is ample scope for the introduction of little dishes, appetising and free from injurious properties. It should be remembered that, while over-elaboration should bo guarded against, in such as precede a simple dinner, careless service is inexcusable. Dainty service aucl suitable garnish must not be neglected; tiny dishes of glass or white china, holding just enough for one person, are most suitable and effective for dotting about the table; though for less ceremonious occasions large dishes may be used, say two or three, each containing a distinct variety. The following list will enable a selection to be made, and suggest many other combinations. The chief materials available are anchovies, anchovy paste or buttex-, beetroot, capers, cress, celeiy, chervil, cods’ roe paste, cucumber, caviare, herring roes or fillets, marinaded herrings, lemons, lax (Norwegian salmon), mussels, olives plain or stuffed; oysters, pickles, smoked ham, sausages, tongue, Ac.; tarragon, tomatoes; Ac. Ac. Various potted meats, fish pastes, and butters, play an im- portant part in the garnishing of the dishes. Many Shall Savouries which could also be served as Hors d’CEuvres will be found under that and other headings later on. Details of the adjuncts of the following recipes, as anchovy butter, green butter, crayfish butter, aspic jelly, Ac. Ac., will be found in their appropriate chapters. (See Index.) Anchovies So. 1).—Wash the Ssh in milk, dry them, remove the hones, and fillet them as even in size as possible: put them iri little dishes — shell-shaped, or anything small and pretty—with sliced cucumber and beet- root, and little heaps of cress and chervil, seasoned and daintily arranged. Guard against uniformity of arrange- ment ; vary it as much as possible. Anchovies (No. 2). — Lay the fillets, prepared as above, on strips of fried bread the same sizo; coat the fillets, some with hard-boiled yolk of egg, sieved; some with the white of an22 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. egg, sieved; some with lobster butter; and the fourth part with cray-fish butter. Sprinkle small cress or chervil, shredded, over the pink ; and over the yolk and white of egg put a little lobster coral. Arrange four of these, one of each sort, on small plates, placing them two and two cross-wise. Bouc-hdes de Harengs (see Bouchees de Sakdines).—-Make a paste in the same way, using mari- naded herrings in place of the sardines. After coating with the aspic, sprinkle with chopped capers* or olives, in addi- tion to the whites of eggs. Bouchees de Harengs (No. 2). —Take a fillet of herring, lay on it an olive stuffed with anchovies or capers (these may be bought ready prepared), roll it up, and set it on a small plate on which has been laid a stamped-out slice of beetroot and one of cucumber (they should be cut with a crimped round cutter, and the cucumber should bo rather smaller), seasoned with oil and vinegar. Put a little heap of mayonnaise on the top of the herring, and sprinkle it with lobster coral. Bouchees de Saumon-Cut sonic slices of brown bread-and-butter, divide them into strips three inches by one ; spread them with crayfish butter, then cover with flakes of spiced or smoked salmon; garnish the tops with sieved egg-yolk, lobster coral, and chopped parsley, a row of each colour. Bouchees de Sardines.—Mix two ounces each of boneless sardines, butter, hard-boiled yolk of egg, and chopped lax, a saltspoonful each of French mustard, lemon-juice, choppod parsley, and chopped gherkin. Pound all to a smooth paste, and rub through a hair sieve. Have ready some anchovy biscuit paste that has been baked in tiny round tins, fill with the mixture, and coat with chopped aspic jelly. Put each on a little plate, sprinkle the aspic with white of egg, boiled hard and chopped ; and garnish with strips of beetroot and cucumber, and mustard and cress. Bouchdes de Sardines (No. 2). —Make some diamond-shaped crou- tons ; spread them with sardine butter, made by mixing sardine paste with an equal weight of fresh butter. Next put a coating of green mayonnaise. Down the centre, long-wise, place some smoked salmon, finely chopped, and garnish each side with whito mayonnaise, sprinkled with chopped capers and parsley; the mayonnaise should be put on from a bag and pipe, and if liked, half of it can be coloured pink. Caviare, Devilled.—Put some small pieces of Russian caviare on round croutons, and sprinkle with lemon-juice and cayenne pepper. Serve the croutons on small plates, and gar- nish with small salad, mixed, if liked, with chopped lax. Serve with cut lemons. Canapes a la Premier.—Lay some rounds of aspic on little plates, and on each round put a little pile of cooked prawns cut into small pieces, leaving a hollow in the centre of the pile. Fill up the centre with green butter, and on the top put some cray-fish butter, using a bag and small pipe. Garnish round the canapes with anchovy biscuit paste cut into tiny diamonds or strips, rings, &c. This paste is useful for garnishing small sardines, and a dish of it may be left on through the dinner, as it is often liked in the cheese course. Canapes d'Olives.—Cut some rounds of bread the size of a half- crown ; fry them a golden brown, and when cold spread them with green butter, then with chopped aspic, next with chopped beetroot and cucumber, putting it on lightly. Sprinkle with oil and tarragon vinegar, then put on a stoned olive, and with a forcing-bag and plain pipe fill it with mayonnaise, seasoned rather highly. Cut some rounds of aspic jelly a quarter of an inch thick, and place each crouton on a separate plate on which a round of the (1011)' has been laid.23 HORS D’ffiUVRES. These should be prepared just before serving. Croutons al’Alberta.—Prepare some square croutons; lay across them a row of chopped lax, and another row in the opposite direction, leaving tho four corners bare. In one corner put chopped beetroot, in tho opposite one chopped tomato aspic, and in the two remaining corners put little heaps of green butter or green mayonnaise. This is a very effective savoury, and will suggest other combinations, due regard being had to flavours as well as colours. Grated ham or tongue can be used instead of lax, or smoked sausage, cut up finely, can be substi- tuted. Sardines in Aspic.—Prepare the sardines by taking them from the tin, and cutting them into fillets, after draining them free of oil and drying them carefully. On each fillet put a morsel of chopped smoked salmon or lax, and roll it up. Pour some liquid aspic in a shallow dish or tin; when set, stamp out some small oblong pieces; put each fillet of sardine on one piece and lay it in the centre of a small plate. All round the sardine put some more aspic, coloured pink, and chopped finely ; garnish with sprigs of cress and chervil, and on the top of the sardines arrange some strips of tomato, beetroot, and cucumber. Shrimps a la Dorisa.—Cut 6ome thin slices of brown bread-and- butter ; divide them into strips of two inches by rather more than half an inch ; spread them with a drop or two of anchovy essence and tomato sauce 1 mixed, and roll them up. Cut some rounds of tomato—large sound ones must be chosen—very thinly, and lay on each a little pile of shrimps, whole I ones, potted in butter; round tho shrimps, on tho tomato, put a ring of cucumbor and pickled mango cut into tiny dice shapes. Round the whole put throe or four of the little rolls of bread-and-butter. For Prawns k la Dorisa sub- stitute a couple of prawns for the shrimps. Fresh or tinned ones can be used. Hors cl’CEuvres Assortis.— Slice some lemons thinly, take out tho pips, and lay each slice on one of beet- root, cut with a crimped cutter to tho size; on tho lemon put a slice of cucumber, very thinly cut; sprinkle with oil, tarragon vinegar, and a little salt and mignonette pepper. In the centre put an olive, plain or stuffed with capers or anchovies ; roll up, and dish in a circle, the folded part down, and slightly overlapping. Hero and there, between them, put shrimps and prawns, and some nicely - trimmed radishes. Fill up tho centre of the dish with more radishes, celery cut into oven-sized lengths, and strips of beetroot, with fillets of anchovy or sardine laid on them. Garnish tho strips with capers, sprigs of chervil, small cress, &c. Small rounds of cu- cumber, with an olive on each, and a little mayonnaise on the top, can also be used instead of, or with, tho strips of beetroot; if placed alternately, as a second ring, round the centre of the dish, they have a very good effect. But tho exact arrangement of this dish cannot well be detailed ; it is intended chiefly to suggest combina- tions. For a large party, two or three dishes should bo placed about tho table; or tho samo idea can bo carried out by arranging single plates, one tor each person.STOCKS AND SOUPS. STOCK, AND THE STOCK-POT. Stock is the basis of many soups, sauces, and gravies; and in houses where its manipulation and manufacture are unknown or neglected, good cooking and economy are practically nil; for besides the main uses of stock, as indicated above, the products pf the stock-pot are the “ making,” so to speak, of the little dishes which afford ready methods of re serving food in an appetising manner, and tend so largely to the prevention of waste. “ Keep your eye on your stock-pot ” is an old saying, and has a double meaning; and certainly, by keeping the stock-pot in her mind’s eye, the housekeeper will learn how to put everything to the best use. and avoid waste all round. The mentiou of stock alarms some people; they at once assume a great expenditure of time and money. Old fashioned' recipes, handed down through generations, have much to answer for in this respect ; but it must be remembered that they were written in the days when moat was cheap and largely consumed, when beef and beer formed the standard English breakfast of many a hearty squire, and the food resources of the people were comparatively limited. But altered prices, combined with the changed dietetic habits of the people, have brought about a reform. Now we know that we can make stock without the huge quantities of meat and poultry demanded for the family soup tureen in the “ good old days.” In fact, with a clear understanding of the principles the rest is plain sailing, and the cost singly a matter of requirement aud management. From the homely stock of a single bone to the grand consomme of the palace there is naturally a wide range; and we shall best meet the require- ments of middle-class households by dealing with the stock-pot of every- day life, and giving the method of preparing a foundation that shall serve not oidy for soups aud sauces, but for a vast number of purposes for which water is frequently used because no stock is at hand. We must explain at the outset that when a high-class stock for clear soup is wanted, it is only possible to get the requisite distinctive flavour by separate preparation of the meat, game, or poultry, as the ease might be; aud that a stock of mixed flavours, such as we are about to describe, would spoil the whole. Thus the stock-pot is capable of use or abuse. A great mistake is sometimes made hi regarding it as a sort of culinary dust- bin, into which everything that has not a clearly-defined use is to be thrown. Incredible as it sounds, we have heard of cheese-parings being 1 bus disposed of. Perhaps this may bo set down as tho chief abuse ; tho next is to keep the pot always going, adding from time to time fresh scraps. This gives a stale flavour, which no after treatment can eradicate, while the contents are very unequally cooked. To make our meaning clear:STOCKS AND SOUPS. 25 Fin. 13.—Stock-Pot with Tat. The pot should be emptied every night, and dried in the air after washing ; cleanliness in every detail is the first desideratum. Let each day’s stock be complete in itself, that is, do not put it back into the pot next day only bones aud gristly meat may go on for further cooking). In Fig. 13 is shown a stock-pot of the best kind, as by means of the inside strainer and the tap which is fitted near the bottom the stock can be readily drawn off as required, and free from sediment. If no stock-pot is at hand, a stout saucepan, kept for the purpose, with a good-fitting lid, may be substituted. The lid and rim must be scrupulously clean, or the stock will “sour”; badly-washed saucepan lids have ruined thousand^, of gallons of stock. What may go into it P Scraps of meat, fresh or cooked; bits of gristle and skin; the bones of a roast or boiled joint ; game and poultry bones and trim- mings ; a ham bone ; scalded bacon-rind; a bit of milt or kidney; in fact, anything of the Mud, if free from taint. Game, if high, should not go iu, and pork bones also are better left out. They are very greasy, aud should be kept for such soups—pea, lentil, &c.—as really are better cooked in greasy stock. Vegetables should be used in moderation ; iu hot weather they are better left out, especially turnips, being productive of fermentation; and in some houses there are not enough scraps and bones to make stock more than twice a week; then, as it has to be kept, it will not keep if made with vegetables. Iu warm weather, stock must be boiled up daily, and in winter every other day. Nothing prevents putrefaction so thoroughly as heat. Celery, leeks, onions, carrots, turnips, bay-leaves, •hyme, and parsley, may go iu in cool weather ; parsnip, even iu moderation, is sometimes objected to; otherwise, a little improves the stock. Celery- seed should take the place of the fresh vegetable when that is not to be had. Of seasoning, the less the better at starting; more can be added when the ultimate uses of the stock are determined. Just a few allspice berries and mixed peppercorns, and a clove or two stuck in the onions, with a little salt, will suffice. Fill up with cold water, that is, cover the contents, and an inch or two more ; bring slowly to the boil (this makes a great difference to the goodness or otherwise of tlio liquid), and skim very carefully, just before it boils is the time ; a pinch of salt aud a spoonful of cold water added two or three times afterwards will throw up more scum, which must always be removed just before it again boils up. After the final skimming, boil steadily but continuously all day; do not stir the contents, and only remove the lid when moro water is required; then, if by an open fire, remove the pot before taking off the lid : the steam in, and the smoke out ” is a good motto. In recipes 1 and 2 we show how useful slocks may bo got from such a foundation as the foregoing, though in no two houses will they be just alike, owing to the lack of definite proportions of tlio variousUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 26 ingredients. They are practically the same, the only difference being in the consistence or brightness, but we have separately numbered them to facilitate reference in other recipes. To extract all the goodness from bones in making stock, a digester is necessary, and will be found a most economical investment in institutions where cooking is done on a large scale and the bones are sufficient in quantity to justify their separate cooking. Few people realise the full measure of nutriment derivable from bones, because the time necessary to extract it is so seldom given; and it has been well said that it must be reckoned by days rather than hours. The reason is that the gelatine, which it is the object of the cook to extract, is so encased in its earthy covering that not only is long cooking needed, but the tem- perature should be high, and pressure is necessary, and only by the aid of a digester is all the soluble matter drawn out. Some care is necessary in the management of a digester—which is a kind of stock-pot with a lid which fits so tightly that the steam can only escape when its pressure is enough to lift a small weighted valve in the top—as it should never be more than half to three-parts filled. The bones should be chopped small; sometimes they are crushed and tied in a bag, as it is only through the fractured surfaces that the animal matter exudes, this is owing to the cellular structure, and applies to bones from some parts of an animal more than others. Cold water should be put to the bones, and salt added at fh-st, with a renewal after boiling point is reached. When a bone looks dry, white, and full of holes, then, and only then, has it become useless for culinary purposes. These remarks may explain why cooking a bone for an hour or so in a haphazard fashion, with or without salt, at any temperature, the lid on or off the pan, just as it happens, is not a satisfactory culinary operation, and is quite certain to give rise to the opinion so often heard expressed—that there is “no goodness” in bones, and that they are not “ worth the troublo of stewing.” They are well worth it, but certainly not when stewed in such a fashion. The following stocks are suitable for many kinds of gravies and sauces, as well as soups, and will meet ordinary requirements, both for plain and rich dishes. For high-class sauces it is sometimes necessary to mako a special stock, such as those described in Nos. 16 and 17. Fio. 14.—Digester. Stock (No. 1).—When the time comes for straining, draw off from the pot the stock prepared as described on p. 25, or if the stock-pot has no tap, ladle out as much as possible without disturbing the bed of bones, &c,, at the bottom; pour it through a fine hair sieve or clean cloth into a basin, and set aside until cold. This will bo fairly clear, without much colour or flavour. It is therefore useful for many purposes as a foundation, andSTOCKS AND SOUPS. 27 can be thickened and coloured as re- quired. It should set into a jelly. Stock (No. 2).—Havo a second basin in readiness, into which put all the remaining liquid from the pot, pressing the debris well. This will look thicker than No. 1, and serve for thick sauces, gravies, &c. Put aside the bones and gelatinous pieces of meat for further cooking, and throw away the rest, i.e., the vegetables. Stock (No. 3).—This is called Second Stock. It takes its name from the fact that the bones and scraps used for it are cooked a second time. To prepare it, put on the bones from the previous day, with a fresh bone or two from veal or poultry if wanted strong and good ; add a little salt, and nothing else, and cook all day. When cold, this should be very firm—firmer than stock made as above, because by the second cooking of the bones more gelatine is extracted. It is, however, comparatively flavourless and colour- less Supposing it is required for meat pies—say, by way of example, a chicken pie—all the odds and ends of the bird should go in; and to ensure its setting firmly when cold, in hot weather, a calf's foot, or part of one, will be found a good addition. The meat itself will furnish a separate dish, the bones being cooked for some hours longer. Or if the pie is a raised one, the bones of the bird, if boiled long enough, will furnish plenty of strong stock, which will set to a jelly when cold. If at any time the stock is found to be not stiff enough for any particular purpose, an ounce (or more, if required) of gelatine should be dis- solved in each quart. Sheet gelatine will dissolve quickly, but “ amber opaque gelatine ” will be better for the purpose. There is a special kind, called “ soup strengthener,” cheaper than the finer sorts, which is excellent for giving body to stocks and soups. Brown Stock (No. t).—This is a very useful stock, and handy for all sorts of purposes ; it is also very little trouble, and by no means expensive. Required, any bones from roast beef or other meat, or raw bones, or they can bo mixed; odds and ends of cooked meat, game, or poultry, or bones and trimmings from raw birds. By way of example, say, the feet, necks, gizzards, and livers of fowls, the head and neck of a rabbit, any scraps of ham cooked or raw, some bacon- rind scalded, a morsel of kidney, or a bit of milt (butchers often call it melt), and vegetables and spices; a carrot, half a turnip, a bit of parsnip, a large onion, a bunch of mixed herbs, a score of mixed peppercorns, and two cloves, for each quart of water, the quantity of water being of course regulated by the amount of material for stock. Any liquor from boiled fresh meat or poultry should be used in place of water. A bit of mushroom, or even the peelings well washed, will improve the stock, but are not essential. The skin of an onion may be added to give colour. If no beef bones are handy, a bit of fresh gravy beef must be got. First, melt a little fat in the bottom of the pot, lay in all the ingredients, fry them a good brown all over, taking care not to bum, then add a little water, boil until nearly dried up, then add the requisite quantity, with salt; bring to the boil, and strain. Cook for six hours or longer, strain, and set aside until cold, then remove the fat, and use as required. Brown Stock (No. 5).—Proceed as above, but use all bones and scraps from game and dark meats (that is, leave out white meats and poultry), about a pound to each quart of water, then add about four ounces of lean ham and the same weight of kidney, washed in vinegar and water, and the core removed. In addition to the in- gredients given above, put in a few allspice berries, a sprig of basil and lemon-thyme, and increase the quantity of mushroom. Allow about a tea- spoonful of salt to three pints of liquid. When this hus hud six to twelvo hours’ simmering, press tho28 . UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. debris well to extract all the goodness, then strain through a sieve, letting all go through except the meat and vege- tables—that is, it does not matter how thick it looks. It ought to be strong both in colour and flavour. Both to this and No. 4 the outer stalks of celery should be added, or some celery - seod tied in muslin. We may mention that a very small quantity of liver, calf’s or sheep’s, is a good addition to stock of this sort, but it must not be sufficient to predominate. A few ounces would do for two to three pints of stock, and this, as well as the ham and kidney, should be fried with the rest of the meat, bones, &e. Rich. Stock (No. 6).—This is tho foundation of good clear soup, and must be carefully made. Take equal weights of shin of beef and knuckle of veal. The beef gives colour and flavour, and tho veal imparts tho de- sired gelatinous matter, ltemove all meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces; then put it, with the bones chopped up, into cold water, allowing a pint for each pound; and, supposing four pounds of meat and bone, add a pint over to allow for boiling away. Bring gradually to boiling point, put in half a teaspoonful of salt, skim, and then add the follow- ing ingredients :—A large carrot, a medium-sized onion, a couple of leeks, half a small turnip, half a head of celery, a largo bunch of parsley, with some thyme and a bay-leaf, a couple of cloves, and a score of mixed pepper- corns, and, if the flavour is not disliked, a small piece of parsnip. All the vege- tables must be well cleansed. The carrot should be brushed, then scraped, and only peeled if really necessary— the outside being the best—and the whole should boil not less than six hours, but not fast. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and leavo in a cold place all night. This must always be made the day beforo it is wanted for use. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 3d. per quart. Now for the clarification of the above. Bemove the fat from the surface by dipping a spoon in hot water, for any remaining specks use the comer of a cloth wrung out of hot water; take all impurities from the bottom of the stock, and put it into a perfectly clean saucepan ; let it dis- solve by gentle heat, then measure it, and to each quart add the whites of two eggs and their shells, washed and crushed up, and half a pound of lean, raw beef, chopped small, or passed through a mincer, with a few vege- tables to revive the flavour; no turnip ; a bit of carrot, celery, and onion, will suffice. The meat must be well mixed with the slock, and tho whites of the eggs should be slightly whisked with a spoonful of cold water. Then whisk quickly until a scum forms, and leave the Btock, partly uncovered, to simmer for an hour or more—-it must barely bubble. There will be a thick scum on the top by this time : do not disturb it in any way, simply pass tho soup through a cloth a second time, or even a third, if not clear. For this, a linen cloth or damask napkin is often used, but many prefer a tammy cloth, which is, we think, the best material, as, being of wool, it absorbs any greaso left behind. It should be a finely- woven ono, and kept very clean, never washed with soap. In using it, it can be tied round the rim of a basin, to hang, bag-like, in the basin, or a chair can be turned upside down on a second chair, and the corners of the cloth tied to the four legs, a basin being set underneath. Never press the cloth in any way; when the liquid is all through, first gather up the cloth, and remove it without squeezing the residue, or the whole will be thickened and spoilt. Instead of tho cloth, a jelly bag is voted by some as indis- pensable, blit the process is then more troublesome and lengthy, and if made as it should be, there is no need of it so far as increasing the brightness of the soup is concerned. The soup is now ready for the garnish from which it takes its name. Kemember to taste it before clarifying,STOCKS AND SOUPS. 29 and if necessary boil a few peppercorns with it; no pepper, or anything which would cloud it, must be put in after the clearing. To clarify game or poultry soups, proceed just as above, but use raw game or poultry in place of half the beef, of which neck or other coarse portions answer very well. Rich Stock (No. 7). — The method of making this is similar to the last, but beef only is used. It may be all shin, or part shin and part from the neck. It gives a darker soup than the foregoing, and though not so generally used, paler soups being- now fashionable, it is still preferred by some people. Cost, about 12a. per quart. Medium. Stock (No. 8).—Make it as No. 6 or 7, but use three pints of water to two pounds of meat and bone, which for ordinary purposes is sufficiently strong. Cost, about Is. 6d. per quart. This and the preceding stock may be clarified as No. 6, or by the follow- ing method, which is quicker. Use three eggs, whites and shells, for each quart of stock, whisk until it is just on the point of boiling, then stop instantly, and leave the stock, partially uncovered, for twenty minutes, then strain as directed; a lump of sugar will assist the brightness—put it in before the second straining. This is apparently a cheaper way, and many writers on the cuisine contend that clarification by the meat process is extravagant, since eggs alone answer the purpose. So it is, if the ortho- dox twenty minutes only be allowed for the simmering, but by giving an hour or more the nutriment is extracted from the added meat, and a wonderful change effected, the soup gaining in flavour; whereas, when eggs alone are used, it is robbed of flavour; and it must always be re- membered that by clarification a soup is robbed of certain elements of nutri- tion, left behind in the scum ; this is inevitable. A soup clear enough for every-day use, though not actually bright, can be obtained by straining the stock (after freeing it from fat and sediment and dissolving it) through a cloth, without clarification of any sort; and will have in it more nourishment than if bright, while expense and trouble will be saved. For such a soup arrowroot is a suitable thickening. White Stock (No. 9). — The foundation of this is veal. Knuckle is best, or half knuckle and half neck will do. The bones of a boiled chicken or rabbit, or fresh poultry bones, are an improvement, and the liquor used should be from boiled veal or poultry, if possible. For a strong stock, use meat in the propor- tion given in No. 6, or for medium stock use the same as No. 8. A small piece of calf’s head with the skin on, or a calf’s foot, together with a slice of lean ham to each half-gallon, will be found a further improvement. Add to each quart of liquid after it boils a small turnip, half a carrot, a couple of celery-stalks inner portion, a tiny bit of mace, half a dozen white peppercorns, a leek -white part, or a button onion or two, and a saltspoonful of salt. This is all at this stage of the proceedings, as there are many uses for this, and various flavourings are added afterwards. The method of treatment is the same as already de- scribed. At least eight hours should be given. This cannot be made in a hurry. Cost, as Nos. 6 and 8. White Stock (No. 10).—This is plain, and costs very little. To make it, take a quart of water in which mutton, veal, fowl, or rabbit, has boiled ; add to it vegetables ns above, sliced, and enough to fill a teacup. Season slightly, and boil down to half the quantity. This is for immediate use only, for plain soups, hashes, and minces of white meats, &c. Strain before using. If vegetables have been boiled with the meat, the stock can be first boiled down without further addi- tion. White Stock (No. 11).—This is a purely vegetable preparation, but if30 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. made as directed, will be found very good. It has “ body,” and is nourish- ing and tasty. Take a couple of quarts of the liquor from boiled haricot beans, rice, or macaroni, or mix them if more convenient. Put in a large turnip, a carrot, and half a parsnip, all sliced. Wash in several waters an ounce of pearl barley, then scald it for a few minutes in boiling water, and add that to the rest. In another saucepan put an ounce of butter. Slice into it an onion, the white pai’t of a leek, a tablespoonful of minced celery, and a couple of button mushrooms. A bunch of herbs and a few whito peppercorns should also go in. Cook for ten minutes, covered, shaking often to sweat the vegetables without browning them. Then turn the whole into the first pan, and boil for two hours or longer, stirring often, that the barley may not burn. A little white sugar, a tiny lump, and half an ounce of salt should be put in just before the first boil-up, and any scum, however slight, should be taken off. Strain for use as re- quired. This will not keep in summer. To those who think that there is no flavour in vegetables worth mention unless meat be added this will be a revelation. Vegetable Stock (No. 12). — Omit the bai'ley in this, and add to the vegetables above - mentioned a handful, mixed, of shredded 'lettuce, watercress, sorrel, and dandelion; and in sweating them altogether let them become slightly brown. Boil as above directed, using the same liquor for the foundation, and shortly before straining put in a little gravy salt to colour, a teaspoonful of mush- room or walnut ketchup, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar or a sprig of fresh tarragon can be boiled in the stock. Fish Stock (No 13).—This is a plain stock, suitable for sauces. Break up the bones of any white fish, fresh or cooked. The head, fins, tail, and bones from a sole that lias been filleted yield flavour and nutriment, and are advantageously added to other kinds. To each pound put a quart of cold water, a dessertspoonful of white vinegar or lemon-juice, a tiny piece of mace, six white peppercorns, thyme and parsley a very small bunch, and a small teaspoonful of salt. Skim often, and boil gently for two or three hours. Strain through a very fine sieve or cloth. The lemon-juice whitens, and helps the scum to rise. Fish Stock (No 14).—This is useful for soups. The mode of making it is the same as the foregoing, but longer time must be allowed. Cods’ heads, conger eels, fresh haddocks, and any cheap white fish, can be used for the foundation. A sliced onion and a bay-leaf should be added, and for a good stock a pint of water should be used for each pound of fish and bone. Fish Stock (No. 15).—The shell of a lobster, with the heads and shells of shrimps or prawns, should be used for this, as it is a stock for “ bisque ” soups. Other fish, as above indicated, may be put with them. They should be just covered with the water (other flavourings as above), and allowed to cook for several hours. To this or the foregoing, oyster liquor or tinned oysters can be added with advantage; so can a pounded anchovy, which has the power of developing the flavour in a marvellous way; a little essence of anchovy answers the same purpose, but either must be used with caution, not in sufficient quantity to overpower the taste of all the rest. Stock for good Gravies and Sauces (No. 1G).—Required: two ounces of butter, a bunch of herbs, a carrot, a leek, an onion, the outside stalks of half a head of celery, a small tcaspoonful of mixed peppercorns and allspice berries, a couple of chillies, a couple of cloves, a bit of mace, a large tomato, four ounces of lean ham, a mushroom or two, and a pound and three quarters of gravy beef. Fry the sliced vegetables, herbs, and spice, in31 STOCKS AND SOUPS. the butter with the ham and beef, after passing them through a mincing machine. "When a rich brown, add, little by little, two pints and a half of cold water, with a pinch of salt; skim carefully, then cover and boil gently for three to four hours; then strain and leave until cold, and remove all the fat. Cost, about 2s. Gd. per quart. Stock for good Gravies (No. 17).—This is richer than the pre- ceding. Put the same weight of meat and ham in the pot, with vegetables, &o., as above, but omit the butter and the frying. Add a quart only of cold water, cover after skimming, and sim- mer as above; strain, and, while hot, add a teaspoonful of extract of meat or a bit of glaze. Cost, about 2s. 9d. In straining both this and the pre- ceding stocks, let all go through except the debris of moat and vegetables. The coarser the strainer the better: a fine one would keep back a great deal of the goodness of the meat. SOUPS AND SOUP MAKING. There is no branch of English cookery so imperfectly understood, as a whole, by the average Englishwoman, as the preparation of soup. The basis of most soups is stock in some form, and although directions will be found for the various kinds under their respective titles, we give here a few rules of universal application. And first, why should it be, or rather, why is it true that so many fail in preparing a good tureen of soup, even when they have the command of ample material ? while as to concocting any out of homely materials, such as are, alas ! too often thrown away, it would frequently mean a complete break-down. Perhaps the chief cause of failure is, as with Stock, that tradition has handed down, recipes of such a nature, that the idea that soup is of necessity very trouble- some and expensive has gained so firm a footing that it will not be easily eradicated. For this reason recipes of an unnecessarily complicated nature have no place in this work. We do not, however, wish to convey the impression that soup can be made without trouble; on the contrary, the preparation of some sorts involves a good deal, and time must not be begrudged. We refer rather to some methods which are practically almost obsolete, but still included in some modern works on cookery. For instance, the boiling down of the meat for drawing out the juices to form a glaze at starting, mainly advocated for imparting colour, can be dispensed with; for the process, though easy enough to an experienced cook, would lead the novice all astray in nineteen cases out of twenty; while we now have in “glaze” and “extract of meat” useful media for this and many other purposes. For particulars of their preparation and chief uses, also for recipes for the cooking of vegetables, croutons, quenelles, and other Garnishes for soups, reference should be made to those headings in the Index. Then tho apparent number of soups bewilders some people “It lias been estimated,” says Sir Henry Thompson, “that the titles which denote these numerous varieties number altogether perhaps not less than five hundred, and proceeding on the principles on which they are produced there appears to bo no reason why the present list should not be doubled in length. In reality, the number of species is very limited, but the slightest addition to a soup having beenuniversal cookery Book. 32 held sufficient to confer upon it a distinctive name, the idea of com- plexity and number has been unnecessarily fostered.” This is the fact in a nutshell. In reality, there are but five leading bases, from which all other varieties spring: first, a decoction of meat, from the weak broth of the modest scrag end of a neck of mutton to the grandest consomme of the most accomplished French chef, made from a mixture of the choicest meats and poultry; second, a decoction of poultry; third, a decoction of game; fourth, fish soups; and fifth, a liquid, which is indebted to the vegetable world of grain, herbs, roots, and all allied substances. To take them in detail, we get from the first variety all the clear bright soups that owe their name to their garnish, and the slightly thickened specimens, which are a sort of link between clear soups and thick soups. The second and third class furnish us with all sorts, from chicken broth to thick game soups; and when the meat is passed through a sieve and added, the result is a puree. The fourth class furnishes many kinds, from fish souchet to purees; and from the fifth list we get a number of kinds, mostly purees, which take their name from the chief vegetable used in their manufacture. Then there are, outside the list above given, a few distinct kinds, of which thick ox-tail, mock or real turtle, giblet, mulligatawny, and true cock-a-leekie, are specimens. Either is substantial enough for a meal, or the main part of one ; for such, they are admirably adapted, but as the prelude to a good dinner they are decidedly out of place, and, with the exception of public dinners, are but little in vogue—much less, at any rate, than a few years ago. Now, in dealing with what we have described above as a decoction of meat, it will be found that the homely broth or stock from greasy meat will give the most trouble. Grease varies ; one form will harden and can be taken off in a cake, like the fat from a boiled leg of mutton; another is held in solution, like the fat of a pig’s head; after removing all that comes to the surface, it will be found, if boiled up again, that there is still a good deal to remove, and skimming is the only remedy so long as there is plenty of grease on the surface. But when it gets into the speckly condition, and is only dotted over with the grease, then a piece of blotting paper, or “kitchen paper” of the rough kind, will remove it: pass it lightly over, and the grease will adhere to it. This is also a good way to remove specks of fat from small quantities of stock or soup, if time cannot be given for it to become cold. Assuming care in the first stage, the ultimate success of a soup is certain if the seasonings are judiciously added. Much must be left to the discretion of the cook, but, as a rule, more seasoning, especially salt, is needed for thick than for clear soups; the latter are better without made sauces, ketchup of any kind, ground spices, or colourings. Wine is a matter of taste ; it is added much less than it was. Clear soup should owe its chief flavour to the meat and vegetables used in making it. “ Season to taste ” are words that occur in many of our recipes ; to lay dowu a fixed quantity is not possible. Not only do palates vary, but much depends upon the amount of salt, &c., used in making the stock; also, whether it has boiled down much or little; while the nature of the addedStocks and SoupS. 33 ingredients plays no small part in the matter. A puree of the strictly vegetable class "will take almost double the salt required for a clear soup (clarified); from a teaspoonful per quart, to half the quantity, may be set down as the approximate amount for soups ranging from the one extreme to the other in consistency, and bearing in mind the points above indicated. Should an overdose of salt by chance bo added, if it is not desirable to dilute it with more liquid, a turnip will have a nullifying tendency; a little more thickening, as ronx, or an egg, or some cream, just according to the nature of the soup, will serve the same purpose. Pepper and other spices vary so much in strength, especially in the ground state, being often adulterated, that this muse be left to the judgment of the cook; the best is always the cheapest, and the quantities may be more accurately gauged; soluble cayenne, the best of its kind, leaves no dregs, but it contains salt (it is sometimes called Indian salt), and this must be remem- bered in using it. Lemon juice is usually added to give a slight piquancy and blend the other flavours, not to give an actually sour taste; anyone interested in cookery will find out by experience the meaning of this remark. Of purees, the chief point is to see that they are purees in the true sense of the word, by passing the compound through a sieve. No one who fights shy of the sieve or the tammy will ever become a cook of more than mediocre powers, for by these processes—viz., sieving and tammying—are smoothness, blended flavours, and digestibility alone ensured. In conclusion, we decidedly join issue with some who are well able to speak with authority, in expressing the opinion that if the middle class and artisan population made soup a standing dish, not only would there be a decrease in the meat bills, but people would be better for the change ; while as to the rural population, it is not too much to say that a knowledge and practice of the uses of the herbs and vegetables of their gardens and fields would be equal to a rise in their wages. Of the recipes that follow, iu addition to what have now become standard soups, there arc many less known, but which are very wholesome, and have the merit of cheapness and all-round utility. We would again remind the reader that the stock is not included in our estimates of the probable cost, and that such estimates must, in all cases, be regarded as purely approximate. While people who have the run of a country garden may reckon the cost of some vegetable purges as almost nil, some dwellers in towns, where such things are expensive, may have to pay even more than the average which we have endeavoured to calculate. The same remark applies equally to the relative value of milk and cream. COLOURINGS AND THICKENINGS FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. Brown Uoux.—Required : some fine dry flour—say, half a pound—the same quantity of butter, an enamelled etewpan, a clear brisk fire, and an h onion. First plnco the butter in tho stewpan, and melt it till it runs to what cooks call oil. It will bo found that there is a whito scum at the top,u UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and a milky sediment at the bottom— recollect, melt the butter, but do not boil it. Skim the frothy top, and pour oif what may be called the clari- fied butter, leaving the milky sediment in the pan. Now you have got rid of what is often called the milk in the butter. Next take the stewpan, and having wiped it clean, pour back the clarified butter into it, and gradually mix in the dried and sifted flour, this will make a sort of pudding, which will all cling together, and will not— or ought not if proper care has been taken to follow these directions—cling to the stewpan. Keep this over the fire, and keep stirring with an iron or wooden spoon till it begins to change colour—i.e., it will gradually, from being almost white, turn to the colour of underdone pic-crust. As soon as the colour begins to change, redouble the stirring, and occasionally remove the stewpan from the fire for a few minutes altogether, in order that the flour should not be fried brown too quickly, for this is really all that is being done. It will be found that the butter and flour will go on boiling after it has been removed from the fire ten minutes or more, such is the power enamelled stewpans possess of retaining the heat. Have ready two slices out of the centre of a good-sized onion about a quarter of an inch thick. Keep stirring the butter and flour till it is of a light brown colour, then take the stewpan oft' the fire, and throw in the two slicos of onion, which havo the double advantage of slacken- ing the heat and of imparting a rich flavour to the thickening. This will cause a spluttering, and care should be taken to avoid splashes on the backs of the hands. Keep stirring till all bubbling has ceased, and this will be longer than many would imagine. Pour oft' what will now be a rich brown fluid, which will assume the appearance of light chocolate when cold, into small jars for use. It will keep for months, and is always at hand; in the end it saves time and trouble, while the difference in the tasto of a soup or sauce thr-kened with roux and one thickened with raw flour is incalculable. Browned Flour.—This is use- ful for thickening plain brown soups, sauces, &c. It should be prepared when the oven is cool. Pass the flour through a sieve, spread it on a tin or old dish, and put it in the oven until a nice brown, like the crust of a well- baked loaf ; it should be turned edges to middle during the process, that the outer part may not be burnt; when evenly coloured, put it through the sieve again, and store it, when cold, in canisters or bottles for use. Ordinary flour, of good quality, should be used for this—that is, no flour of the self- raising kind must be used, neither does whole-meal answer, as it must be quite finely ground. Browning, Liquid.—Put two ounces of pounded loaf sugar in a small iron saucepan; let it melt, stir- ring with an iron spoon ; when very dark, but it must not become black, add half a pint of hot water ; lot it boil up, and when cool bottle it. This requires a little care; if burnt much, it is very unpleasant, but if not burnt enough to take off the sweetness it will be sickly. A very few drops are required to colour a quart of liquid. No. 2.- For this, equal weights of onions, vinegar, moist sugar, and water, are needed. Put the onions, sliced, in a stewpan of untinned iron, with the water; in a few minutes add the sugar, and boil until a very dark brown. Boil the vinegar sepa- rately, and add to the rest, then take from the fire, strain when cooled a little, and bottlo for uso when quite cold. This can only be used when an onion or an acid flavour may safely be added to the dish. It is quite un- suitable for delicate preparations, but for all kinds of plain savoury soups, &c., it is very useful. No. 3. —This is simple, as it imparts no unpleasant taste. Put two ounces of the darkest chicory in a muslin bag; put it in a pint of water,35 STOCKS AND SOUPS. and boil to half a pint; strain and bottle when cold. More of this is required than of tho others for the same proportion of liquid. No. 4.—This is tho most homely of all. It is favoured by vegetarians for browning soups. Toast a pieto of crust of bread very carefully until well dried and dark, but unburnt ; put it in the cold water or vegetable stock which is to be used for the soup; when sufficiently coloured take out the bread. It must not be put into boil- iwj liquid, or it would break up. Iiiaisons.—This is a French term, given to various thickening media—a liaison is really a support to tho liquid; by its aid separation is prevented, and the ingredients are all amalgamated. The most commonly used materials are roux, arrowroot, ground rice, barley, Sec. The same term is often applied to butter for enriching sauces, but this is a misnomer, as that does not thicken of itself. Eggs and cream furnish tho liaison for rich soups, together with (in some cases) the French prepara- tions of tapioca, sago, &c. The yolks of the eggs only are used; they should be beaten well, and blended with a little of the soup, somewhat cool, and added to the rest, always below boiling point. It must then be thoroughly heated, and this requires attention ; if not hot enough, it will not “ bind,” and if too hot—should it happen to boil—it 'will curdle. Always strain the eggs after beating, that tho “ speck ” may be removed. In using the dry materials, either kind, mix it first with a little cold liquid, then with some of the hot soup, and stir the whole well, while adding it to the contents of the soup pot: to guard against lumps, it is well to strain after mixing it, beforo putting it in tho soup. White Roux.- This is made in the same way as tho brown, but it is removed from tho fire before it has acquired colour; it wants cooking, without browning—that is, just before it begins to turn colour it should be taken from tho fire. Between this and raw flour there is as distinct a differ- ence as between unbaked dough and a crisply baked loaf, or raw and baked pie-crust. This is used for many kinds of white soups and sauces, and the quantity required varies from a teaspoonful to a tablespoonful to each pint of liquid; to tho thick soups or purees the minimum quantity only is required ; but it is well always to add it gradually, and a small quantity only at first. MEAT, GAME, AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. Almond Soup.—Required: one quart of stock (No. 9), one pint of milk, two eggs boiled hard, one ounce of almonds, two ounces of bread-crumbs, two ounces of cooked white meat or poultry, seasoning. Cost, about Od. Mince the meat, pound it in a mortar with the bread and the yolks of the eggs, moistening from time to time with a little hot stock; then add the almonds, sweet ones, finely ground; pour over the rest of tho stock, and put into a clean saucepan. In another saucepan put tho milk, with a blade of mace and half a dozen white peppercorns, bring it to the boil, then stir in tho rice-flour blended with cold milk into a smooth paste; take out tho spices and boil for ten or twelve minutes, stirring all tho time. When the stock boils, mix tho contents of tho two pans together, adding salt to taste, but this should bo delicately flavoured. For richer soup, beat in a gill of cream last moment, and increase tho quantity of meat. For a still more delicato almond flavour, soak some shredded almonds in a littlo milk until flavoured, then strain the milk to tho rest of tho liquid.UNIVERSAL COOKERY book. 56 Apple Soup. — Required : one pound of good apples, rather tart ones, a pint and a half of stock (No. 2), salt and pepper, a pinch of ground cloves, ginger, and curry-powder, one ounce each of butter and flour. Cost, about 4d. Make the stock hot, slice the apples into it without coring or peeling, put in the whole of the seasoning, and boil gently to a pulp, then pass through a sieve. Put it back in the pan with the flour mixed with cold water and the butter; boil up again for ten minutes, and dilute with a little more stock if preferred thinner. Apple and Spinach Soup.— Boil the apples in the stock as above, then, after sieving, put it back in the saucepan with some boiled spinach, chopped finely, enough to fill a break- fast-cup ; boil up, and put in part of a small lettuce, shredded, and some mixed herbs in powder; boil for a few minutes longer, then serve with egg-balls and fried bread in strips or dice. This is very wholesome and palat- able. Turnip-tops, Brussels sprouts, young cabbage, and many other varie- ties of “ greens ” may be served in tho same way. If thickening is pre- ferred, a little sago may be used, or ri/.ine, florador, &c. For white soups or maigro soups, use milk and vege- table stock ; the latter should bo used to boil tho apples in, and the milk put in afterwards. Artichoke Puree.— Required: three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, two ounces of butter, seasoning, herbs, a couple of ounces of minced celery and onions, a gill of cream, one pint of milk, and three pints of stock (No. 9). Cost, about Is. 4d. Peel and slice tho artichokes, keep- ing them well under water while peeling, to preserve their colour; throw them into cold water with a few drops of lemon-juico in; drain them, and put them with the other vege- tables and a little mignonette pepper in a stew-pan; cook for a quarter of an hour without colouring. Add the stock, boil to a pulp, then boil the milk and cream with an ounce of arrowroot. Pass the puree through a hair sieve, add the milk, &c., re- boil, and season to taste. Add a drop or two of lemon-juice off the fire. Serve with dice-shaped croutons. Asparagus Puree.—Required: half a hundred heads of asparagus, one pint of stock (No. 9), half a pint of milk, a gill of cream, salt and pepper, two ounces of flour, two ounces of butter. Cost, about 2s. Cut off the hard ends of the asparagus, wash the rest, and slice them (reserving the tips) half an inch or so in length, keeping them in cold water until wanted. Put in a pan the stock and sliced asparagus, boil until soft, then pass through a sieve. Melt the butter, add the flour and milk, and stir until it boils, then put in the stock and tho asparagus tips well-drained from the water, simmer for ten minutes more, and serve. This should be delicately seasoned. It is a very quickly prepared soup. Tho tips may take rather longer, but caro is needed to prevent their breaking. They should bo distinct in the puree. Asparagus Pur6e (from Tinned Asparagus).— This will make good soup. It must bo taken carofully from the tin to prevent the points breaking ; they should be cut off and laid aside. The asparagus, being cooked, can bo passed through tho sieve after a boil up in the stock, the points being added a minute or two before serving. For a plain soup, only the stalks need bo used, the points can be kept for garnishing or other purposes. Both this and tho above may be coloured slightly with green vegetable colouring. Asparagus Soup, Clear. — Clear stock, made by the directions given in Nos. 6, 7, and 8, but with a very slight flavouring of vegetables and herbs, forms tho foundation of this. It should be clarified and mostSTOCKS AND SOUPS. 37 delicately seasoned. For a quart, allow a sixth or an eighth the measure of asparagus tips or points (they are called by either name); these should he boiled until tender in water, and put in the soup just before serving. The water in which the asparagus is boiled may be put into vegetable soup of any kind. A mixture of asparagus tips, green peas, and cucumber, cut with a “ pea cutter,” is a nice garnish for clear soups. Austrian Bean Soup. — Re- quired : a pint of brown haricots, a small carrot, an onion or two, half a turnip, and some outer stalks of celery, salt, and peppercorns, two ounces of dripping, a pinch of sugar, and two quarts of stock (No. 2). Cost, about 7d. Soak the beans in the cold stock, bring it slowly to the boil, and add the sugar and peppercorns, with a clove. Slice the vegetables and fry them brown in the dripping; then add them, and boil the whole gently, with very frequent skimming, for three hours or more; then pass it through a coarse sieve, re-heat, and season to taste, and serve with croutons. This is very rich and nourishing. If liked, a glass of claret can be added. “ Barley Soups,” says a writer, “ are among the most valuable. The Scotch people, who use it (barley) abundantly, get from it both the thickening and blending element in the basis of their broths.” Count Rumford wrote many years ago that “ barley requires much management and Ion" boiling, but when properly managed it gives a degree of richness which nothing else can give, and thickens a vast quantity of water.” Barley-flour, a refined barley-meal, is very useful for thickening soups, as it requires much less boiling than pearl or Scotch barley. The last- named is more nutritious than pearl barley, but it takes longer to cook. When freed from husk, and rounded in the process of milling, Scotch or pot barley becomes pearl barley, which is often very dirty, and needs careful washing and scalding; or for delicate dishes it is better brought to the boil in water, and strained before using, as this ensures greater cleanliness. Barley Grits Soup.—Groats, whole white ones, are required for this. (See Coun Gkits Sour, and follow the directions, but allow from two to three hours for the cook- ing.) Much trouble may be saved by using a jar in the same way as for Cohn Soup. The groats should bo the best quality, the same as are used for white puddings; these are very nourishing for children. Water can be used in place of stock, then milk should be put in after the grain has become soft. A mixture of groats from oats, barley, and wheat, may be used. People with whom the old- fashioned dish known as frumenty, or furmenty, is popular, will enjoy all these soups, which are ' of German origin. Beetroot Soup.—Required one quart of stock (No. 8), some beetroot and onions, seasoning, vinegar, and cold meat. Cost, about Is. Boil up the stock, then fry some small onions, finely chopped, a delicate brown in hot fat, with a pinch of sugar. About a couple of ounces should then be put into the stock, with a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and celery-seed tied in muslin, with a dove or two and some Jamaica pepper- corns, about half a dozen. Boil and skim for a quarter of an hour; then hike out the seasoning bag, and add a tablespoonful of vinegar, French or Italian red—or they may be mixed— and a teacupful or so of boiled beet- root in dice or any desired fancy shapes. Then put in some underdone cooked meat (beef is preferable), very finely inincod ; it must bo quite free from fat and gristle. Cover, and leave to heat through for ton or fifteouUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 38 minutes, but do not let it boil once after the meat is in. For a thick beetroot soup add a little brown roux, and pass the beetroot through a sieve after chopping it up. About four ounces of meat will serve. Game or poultry can be used instead, if more convenient. Bottled Soups. — These differ from the soups in tins. They are of better quality, and higher in price— from fifteenpence to two shillings is the average for the ordinary kinds. Turtle and rich concentrated prepara- tions and invalid specialties are much higher—six or seven shillings per pint. Both French and English firms do a largo trade in these soups. The clear and thick varieties are well re- presented, tho former being beauti- fully bright, and worthy a place at any table. To those people who arc always bettor satisfied when they see what they are buying, and who are of opinion that tinned goods always taste of the tin, these soups will commend themselves, the ad- vantages of contact with so un- objectionable a material as glass being obvious. In most cases directions for use accompany the soups. Some are served with little dilution ; others bear a considerable quantity of water. One hint as to tho re-heating may be useful. They should never, especially the clear kinds, be put into a saucepan that is not most scrupulously clean, for not only would the flavour suffer, but the brightness would bo lost. Those who are acquainted with the process of clarification will not need this caution, but sometimes—indeed very often—these'goods are bought for special occasions or for invalids, when appearances have to be carefully studied. Brown Artichoke Soup.— Required: two pounds of artichokes (Jerusalem), two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of extract of meat, a table- spoonful each of sliced carrots, celery, and turnips ; seasoning, a little brown roux. Cost, about 9d. Prepare the vegetables as for Arti- choke Punek ; fry them in the butter, add a spoonful of flour, and brown it, then the stock, from two to three pints. For a good soup use No. 8, for plainer soup No. 2 or 4. Boil until it can be sieved, then add the meat extinct, roux, and seasoning, and a little more stock if needed; skim care- fully, and serve. Many other soups usually prepared with while stock are very good thus made. Turnip, marrow, parsnip, &c., are examples. Some vegetables, being very watery, require less stock. If at any time too much is added, more thickening must be put in, or the soup reduced by boiling it quickly for a few minutes. Brown Liver Soup.—This will be liked by all lovers of game soups, of which it is an imitation. It is a very excellent soup of the savoury kind. First make the foundation as follows :—Put into a saucepan a bit of bacon, an onion, some cloves and black peppercorns, a pound of lean beef, minced, and an ounce of grated carrot; fry for a minute, then pour in water to cover, and simmer until the moisture has nearly dried up; then pour over three pints of stock, ordinary, from bones, &c., and cook gently for an hour or two ; press tho meat from time to time, then strain the soup off, and put to it six ounces of calf’s liver that has been fried and pounded, and seasoned with salt, black pepper, nutmeg, and powdered herbs, and rubbed through a sieve; add a little brown roux, boil the whole up, and serve with strips from a French roll dipped in hot butter, and crisped in tho oven. Cost, about Is. fid. per quart. Another variation of this is made by frying the liver with the other in- gredients at starting, and cooking with the rest. It is removed with the beef in this case, and a thickening of sago or other cereal is put iuto tho soup with the roux. Both soups need care- ful skimming. The beef should go into the stock-pot.STOCKS AND SOUPS. 30 Brown Onion Soup.—Required: two pounds of onions, two leek3, a dozen peppercorns, two cloves, a bay- leaf and sprig of thyme, two ounces of raw ham, two ounces of clarified fat, salt, sugar, two ounces of browned flour, two quarts of stock (Xo. 2), a morsel of pastille de legumes (Season- ings) or a pinch of browning salt, and a few slices of carrot. Cost, about 9d. Put into a pan the fat and ham in strips ; when hot, add the onions and leeks in slices, the carrots and sugar, stir until brown, then pour in the hot stock; boil up and skim, put in the spices and herbs, and boil down to a pulp. Pass through a sieve, and re- turn it to the pan with the thickening, colouring, and salt to taste; add a little more stock if required, but it should be thick; boil up, and serve. Grated cheese may be served with this, if liked. If English onions are used, they should be first scalded; Spanish ones do not need this. Brown Onion Soup (Rich).— Use stock (Xo. 4), and thicken with brown roux, taking care to skim well. Serve fried croutons, cut into rounds the size of a shilling, with this. Brown Rice Soup,—Required: a quart of stock (Xo. 2 or 4), a tea- spoonful of pure mushroom catsup, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, two ounces of browned rice, and a medium- sized onion; salt and pepper to taste. Cost, about 4d. The rice should be Patna, boiled as for curry, but left until cold. Put it in a baking-tin with a little liquid butter; set it in the oven, and bako it until golden brown all over, and the butter absorbed. It must be turned about from time to time. Meanwhile, peel, mince, and fry an onion in a little more butter until nearly tender; drain it, and put in a pan, with the rice and all the other materials; boil until the onion is soft, and serve hot. This is an American soup, very savoury and appetising. It is necessary that the rice be well rinsed in water after boiling, and well dried; other- wise, in baking it the grains will clog, instead of separating, as they should, for every grain to be distinct. Brunoise Soup.—A good Vege- takian recipe.—Required : one quart of stock (Xo. 11), one pint of milk, one ounce of butter, one ounce of corn-flour, one ounce of fine sago, salt, pepper, and celery salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions, a few slices of cucumber, a bay-leaf, and tiny blado of mace. Cost, about Sd. Prepare the vegetables by cleansing and cutting them into slices the third of an inch thick, then into dice shapes. Bring the stock to tho boil, put in the carrots, and sprinkle in the sago ; add tho parsley, bay-leaf, and mace tied in muslin. In ten minutes put in the onions and leeks, then the cucumber and turnips; there should be enough vegetables mixed to fill a half-pint measure. Xow boil, and stir gently until all are tender, then mix tho corn- flour and milk, and boil them sepa- rately; remove the bag from tho soup, squeezing it a little to give a green tinge; add the milk, season to taste, and serre. Brunoise Soup, Brown. — This may be made from clear stock, clarified or not ; if the former, boil the vegetables separately until quite done, and add them last thing, with a teaspoonful of sherry to a pint of soup. If the stock is not clarified, boil the vegetables until nearly done in water, then finish them in the soup. There should bo about a sixth tho measure of vegetables to stock ; young vegetables should bo chosen. To pre- pare them, wash them thoroughly, and cut them into slices of about the third of an inch, then into squares like tiny dice. The most suitablo kinds aro carrots, turnips, onions, cucumber, and celery, if obtainable; tho outer part of carrots should be used, and turnips, unless young, are better omitted. French are useful, but they take longer to boil than EnglishUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 40 turnips. Stocks Nos. 6, 7, and 8 are all suitable for this. Calf’s Feet Soup.—This re- sembles ox-foot soup, but is more delicate in flavour. A set of feet will make two quarts of very good soup, and then the bones will make good second stock. After cleansing and dividing the feet, put them on in cold water, with vegetables and a bunch of herbs; bring to the boil and skim, and cook until the bones will slip out if the feet are to bo served in the soup, but if for a separate dish servo tho feet as soon as they are tender. (See recipes for Calf’s Feet.) This soup is often served clear, in which case a small quantity of extract of meat should be put in, and, if liked, a spoonful of wine, with vegetables in shapes, or Italian paste, or anything which would be added to ordinary clear soups; if thickened, finish like Mock Turtle. Cost, about 1 s. per quart. This stock is also suitable for tho foundation of any good white soup. Calf’s Feet Soup, Piquant.— After cooking the feet, leave tho stock, after straining, until next day; then measure it; supposing two quarts, boil down to three pints, with a slice of lean ham and a fried onion; then strain and skim. Put in the following ingredients, and servo at once, after just bringing it to tho boil again:—a teaspoonful of French vinegar, the same of tomato vinegar and vinegar from pickled cucumbers, a few grains of cayenne pepper, a dessert-spoonful of extract of meat, half an ounce of glaze dissolved in a glass of claret, salt to taste, and a teaspoonful each of very finely-chopped parsley and chervil, with a few shreds of fresh tarragon. Have tho tureen ready heated, with threo ounces of rice, boiled as for curry and browned (see Brown Rice Soup) ; pour the soup over, and cover at once ; then serve. This is a very delicious soup, and quite inexpensive. Cost, about 4d. per pint. The feet make a separate dish, Calf’s Head Soup.—See Mock Turtle. Cauliflower and Cheese Soup.—This will furnish an illus- tration of what may be done with cold vegetables in the way of soups, and from other materials of the same nature an endless variety may bo furnished. This is very delicious and nourishing. Required : one quart of bone or vegetable stock, one pint of milk, two ounces each of butter, rice- flour, and grated Parmesan cheese, some sprigs of cooked cauliflower the size of a shilling, and enough to fill a breakfast-cup, a couple of table- spoonfuls of boiled rice, semolina, or macaroni cut small, a little celery, salt, white pepper, and cayenne, and two eggs. Cost, about lOd. May bo made in a quarter of an hour. Boil the stock, add the cauliflower, and season it nicely; melt the butter, stir in the rice-flour, add the milk gradually, and boil up; stir in the grated choose off the fire, and add the eggs singly, heating hard for a minute or two. Do not boil again : the steam will cook them. Stir in the rice or macaroni, mix well, then pour into the tureen, and add the boiling stock by degrees. When serving, hand round some more grated cheese. Carrot Puree (Superlative).— Required: six carrots, a lump of sugar, one ounce of butter, one onion, one turnip, two celery stalks, two ounces of lean ham, two leeks, salt and peppercorns, one quart of stock (No. 8), and half an ounce of glaze. Cost, about 9d. Wash and brush the carrots, take off the red part, and put it into a pan with the butter and tho rest of the vegetables sliced: add tho ham in dice, and a dozen of mixed peppercorns, a little salt, and the sugar. Sweat for fifteen minutes, pour in the stock boiling, and cook, with frequent skimming, for an hour and a half, or until tho whole can be sieved; then return it to the pan, stir in the glaze, and servo as soon as it is hot. If no glaze is handy, use a tea-STOCKS AND SOUPS. 41 spoonful of extract of meat with half an ounce of French sheet gelatine or “ amber opaque gelatine ”; but if the latter is used, it must be soaked in cold water for an hour or two before adding it. The inner part of the carrots can be put into the stock-pot; the outer being used for the best dishes, both colour and flavour being superior. Celery Cream Puree (a very good soup).—Required: four heads of celery, four leeks, two ounces of potato-flour (French), seasoning, two ounces of butter, a small slice of raw ham, one pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and two pints of medium stock (No. 9). Cost, about 2s. 3d. Take off the root end from the leeks, and slice the white part into a deli- cately clean saucepan; take the root from the celery and all the outer stalks, then cut up the inner portions into shreds; put them in the pan, add the ham and butter, a pinch of salt, a few white peppercorns, and a bit of mace ; cook without browning for a quarter of an hour, add the stock, and skim ; then simmer for about an hour and a half to a pulp, pass through a hair sieve, then return it to the pan. Heat the milk and cream separately, mix them with the puree, and serve with dice-shaped croutons. The potato-flour should be very smoothly blended with a little cold milk, and added ten minutes before serving. Cereal Cream Soup. -Required: two quarts of stock (No. 9), one ounce each of fine oatmeal, rice-flour, barley- flour and butter, salt and pepper, a gill of cream, and a grate of nutmeg. Cost, about 8d. Melt the butter, blend the cereals with a little cold water, pour in with the butter, and stir well; add the stock by degrees, and stir until it boils, then simmer gently for an hour; season to taste, add the cream, bring to the boil again, and serve. This is a very nourishing and digestible preparation. For a vegetarian soup, use stock No. 10, or water and milk in equal parts. Cereal Velvet Soup. — Re- quired : a quart of milk, two eggs, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, two ounces of crushed tapioca or sago (French), one ounce of potato-flour, and one pint of medium stock (No. 9). Cost, about 9d. Boil up the stock, season to taste, and sprinkle in the thickening; stir until done, or it will form into lumps; as soon as transparent it is ready. Mix the potato-flour and milk, boil up, and add the yolks of the eggs gradually; return to the fire to thicken, then pour into the tureen, and stir in the boiling soup. This is very nourishing, and quickly prepared. The French semolina can be used in the same way. Chestnut Soup, Vegetarian. —Required : one pint each of milk and the water from boiled rice, three ounces of chestnut-flour, salt and pepper, a slice or two of onion, celery, and turnip. Cost, about 4d. Boil the vegetables in the water for twenty minutes or more, strain off the water, make it up to a pint, season to taste, and add the boiling milk pre- viously mixed with the chestnut-flour, and boiled for ten minutes; re-boil for ten minutes more, then serve. The French chestnut-flour is not here referred to. (See Chestnut Sauce.) Clear Soup with Croutons.— This is a very popular soup in Ger- many. Some clear stock is required; it should be boiled with enough mixed vegetables to impart a delicate flavour. The soup is then clarified (see Stocks Nos. 6 and 6, pp. 24, 25), and at the moment of serving some croutons prepared as follows are put in the tureen. Cut some thin slices from a light bread roll of a few days old, take off the crust, and stamp the crumb into rounds the sizo of a shilling or a little lurger. Have some hot butter ready: it bhould be clarified; dip the croutons in, then roll them in B42 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. grated Parmesan cheese, and hake them until a bright yellow and crisp. They take hut a very short time. Cock-a-I«eekie. — True cock-a- leekie is fowl soup, served with the fowl in it, hut for economy’s sake it is very often served without the fowl, when it becomes mock cock-a-leekio. Required : a young fowl, two quarts of plain white stock from meat or hones, two largo bundles of leeks, salt and pepper, and four ounces of rice. Cost, about 3s. Boil the fowl in the stock until it is tender, then put it aside. Wash the lpeks, about a dozen, take off the root end and the green ends, cut them up, after trimming, and put them, with the rice and seasoning, into the soup; cook gently for an hour, add more stock or water, but it should be quite thick, and then the fowl, cut into joints and again divided (the liver, gizzai'd, neck, and back may be left out) should he put in. Serve very hot. Cock-a-Iieekie,Mock.—Usothe liquor from a boiled fowl, adding any bones or odds and ends to give increased flavour, or mix some plain stock with the fowl liquor; boil in it leeks and rice as above directed, but the quantity may be increased to make up for the lack of the fowl joints. Barley can bo used instead of. rice, or half of each. Cocoa-nut Soup.—Required: a quart of medium white stock (No. 9), one ounce of fresh cocoa-nut, salt, a drop or two of essence of mace, and some cereal for thickening, a gill each of milk and cream, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Cost, about Gd. Heat the stock, put in the cocoa-nut, having grated it on a clean grater, and boil gently until it is tender; strain, and return the soup to the pan, with more stock to make up the quantity; put in some cereal, as florador, rizine, or coralline, or sago or tapioca, about three ounces. When the grain is tender, season and serve. Add the boiling cream and milk last thing. For a plain soup use all milk. Cocoa-nut Soup, Brown.— Use stock, &c., as above, but thicken with brown roux, and instead of the milk, add a glass of sherry and a gill of brown stock. Or brown stock may bo used for the foundation; then a larger quantity of cocoa-nut will be needed, as it should bo more strongly flavoured than the white soup. Consonant a l’ltalienne.— Required: two quarts of stock (No. G or 7), two ounces of grated cheese, four ounces of Italian paste, and a glass of sherry. Cost, about 8d. Make the stock hot, parboil the paste in plain water, slightly salted, for five minutes, then drain it, and rinse in clean hot water, and finish the cooking in the soup. It is then ready for the sherry. Hand tho grated cheese with it. Tho pasto called cagliari, in fancy shapes, may bo used, or the letter paste, or some freshly-made Nomites paste can bo used. It may bo cut into strips or any fancy shapes. Another variety of Italian paste (sold in half- inch lengths, and called celery cut macaroni) is also suitablo. Tho con- somme should take its name from the kind of pasto used : thus, Consomme 11 la Cagliari, Consomme aux Nouilles, See. Ordinary pipe macaroni, boiled until nearly done, and cut into half- inch pieces, is suitablo. Tho paste referred to as “ celery cut ” is pipe- shaped, rather thicker than tho other kinds, and ridged ; hence its name, as it resembles celery. It is only to bo bought at shops kept by Italians, as a rule. , Consomme & la Jardiniere.— (See Brunoise Suer, Brown, for tho method of making this, but the vege- tables are differently cut). Carrots and turnips may bo in strips; some green peas are needed, and some French beans ; the latter are cut into diamonds usually. Lettuce finely shredded is also used, and cauliflower broken into small sprigs. This is a nice-looking soup, but some trouble to prepare, as the vegetables need separate boiling.STOCKS AND SOUPS. 43 The carrots and turnips may go to- gether, tho carrots put in first, hut tho green vegetables must he cooked apart. Sometimes vegetables cut into olives are added to this, but a soup in which the vegetables are all in that form be- comes XlVKIlNAISE. Consomni6 a la Monaco.— Required: three pints of stock (No. 6), the bones of a raw chicken, and some quenelles made as below. Cost, about 3s. 9d. Put the stock into a very clean pan, add to it the crushed chicken bones, and boil for two to three hours gradu- ally, adding a little cold stock from time to time; when cooked, strain, and make up the quantity ; set aside until cold, then clarify as the rich stock No. 6, p. 28, using half chicken and half beef for the purpose. The inferior parts of the bird will do for this. With tho white meat make some quenelles (see Chicken Quenelles in Hoi Entrees), then divide the mixture into three parts. To one, add a tea-spoonful of chopped truffles; to another,the same measure of parsley, tarragon, and chervil (a very little tarragon only),finely chopped; and to the third,put a chopped button-mush- room or two, and enough carmine to make the quenelles a pale pink. Make them small—about the size of a com- mon nut—and poach them in the usual way. Add them to the soup just before serving, and put in a table- spoonful of Madeira or good sherry. Put the bones into the stock-pot. Consomm6 k la Ran4e.— Required : three pints of clear soup, from stock No. 6 or 7, a glass of Madeira, half an ounce of glaze, some pink savoury custard, a dozen and a half of quenelles, chicken or veal, half a tin of green haricot beans (flageolets), and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. From the savoury custard cut leaves or stars, or any fancy shapes, about two dozen. Drain the beans from the liquor, and cut them into strips. Heat the soup, dissolve in it the glaze, add the wine and beans, cover for a few minutes, then put in the custard shapes, very carefully, just before serving. (See Index for recipes of the adjuncts above named.) Consomme a la Remus.— Required: a quart of clear soup, from stock No. 6 or 7, a dozen and a half of croutons, small round ones, cut with a crimped cutter, some cooked carrot, cucumber, and turnip, cut into olivo shapes or with a “ pea-cutter,” a glass of sherry, some glaze, and some slices of tongue, braised or boiled, the shape of the croutons. Heat the soup, add the wine and vegetables; warm the tongue in a little soup, then prepare the croutons, and lay a piece of tongue on each, after drying them as soon as removed from the soup; brush them over with glaze, and hand them on a dish covered with a lace paper. Corn Soup.—Put a breakfast-cup- ful of wholo wheat into a jar, with an ounce or two of butter; set it in the oven, and when the butter has melted add some cold broth or stock, a quart or more, with seasoning to taste —salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped chives or shalots, parsley, fennel, thyme, &c., are the usual addi- tions—and bake in a slow oven until tender, adding more stock from time to time. When read)- for use, put the whole in a saucepan, and dilute it with more stock to the required consistence. For a superior soup put in some boil- ing cream or the yolks of a few raw eggs. This is a fast-day soup if made with water instead of stock. Corn-grits Soup. — Required : any kind of broth or bone stock, some crushed or rolled wheat, salt and pepper, chives and pai'sley, nutmeg, and eggs. Cost, about fid. Boil three pints of broth, sprinkle in six ounces of wheat, and boil for half an hour ; then add a handful of minced chives and chopped parsley and tho seasoning, and boil for half an hour longer. Beat up three eggs in tho soup-turccn with a gill of warm milk ; stir the soup to thorn, and in a fowUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 44 minutes, after thoroughly mixing and covering, serve. This is a German soup. Cow-heel Soup.—This is very nourishing and cheap. Theheels should be bought at a tripe-shop (they requiro scalding and cleansing, and to be freed from fat, and are troublesome to pre- pare at home), and unboiled ones asked for. Cut each into four parts, and cover with cold water and a little salt; boil slowly, and skim well, then add any vegetables and flavouring herbs, and cook until the meat falls from the bones; then strain it, and flavour and season to taste ; thicken with rice or any other grain, or with any Italian paste—in fact, the finishing off is just a matter of taste. Each heel will make from a pint to a quart, according to the strength desired. The bones will make excellent second stock, while the meat will furnish a separate dish, with some suitable sauce. Parsley sauce is a usual accompaniment, but onion, caper, and others are equally good. Cost, a few pence per quart. Cow-heel Soup (Brown). - Proceed as above, but after straining the liquor, put in a little sauce or ketchup, a spoonful of sherry, a few drops of lemon-juice, and enough brown roux to make it as thick as cream ; add some of the meat, cut into small squares, and a soup very little inferior to mock turtle will bo the result. A small slice of lean ham is an improvement to this. Cream of Veal Soup.—Re- quired : one pound of veal from the fillet, one pint of stock (No. 9), one pint of milk, one gill of cream, one ounce of sago, one egg, salt and pepper. Cost, about Is. 8d. Lay the meat on a board, and scrape it until there is nothing left but skin. Put the scraped meat into the stock, and keep it cooking, but under actual boiling-point, for forty minutes. Cook the sago and milk together wdiile tho meat is cooking. Then pass the meat and stock through a fine sieve, add tho sago and milk, and season delicately. In the tureen, beat up tho yolk of the egg, with the cream first warmed; add the soup by degrees, and serve with strips of dry toast. This is suitable for delicate people. Mutton, rabbit, or fowd, can be used, and any other suitable thickening may take the place of sago—barley-flour, rice-flour, arrowroot, crushed tapioca, and the best semolina are all usable. Cream Soup A la Welling- ton.—Required: a gill of cream, one quart of stock (No. 9), one quart of milk, the bones of a fowl, with any inferior joints and trimmings— say, from a hoiled fowl, though a raw one is better—four ounces of rice, four ounces each of minced onion, celery, and carrot, two eggs, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf and sprig of thyme, salt and pepper, a small tin of button-mush- rooms, and one ounce of butter. Cost, about 2s. Butter the bottom of a stew-pan, put in the vegetables, bones—smashed up— and the spices; cook, covered, for a few minutes; add the stock by degrees, with a pinch of salt, bring slowly to the boil, and skim well; simmer for three hours, then add the rice, pre- viously blanched, and cook for another hour. Mix the eggs with the milk, stir over tho fire until the mixture thickens, then add the mushrooms, cut up small, cover, and leave by the fire, but it must not boil again. Take the bones from the soup, pass the rest through a sieve, re-boil it, and mix with the contents of the other sauce- pan. Have the cream whipped up in tho tureen (first well heated), stir the soup to it, and serve at once. This is a high-class soup. To make a plainer one use stock No. 3. All the skin and bits of fowl that do not go through the sieve should be put in the stock-pot. Desiccated Soups.—There are now several makes ot desiccated or dried soup before the public ; some are of vegetables only, others are a mix- ture of meat and vegetables. They are in the form of a dry, coarse powder,45 STOCKS AND SOUPS. are very quickly cooked, and useful not only for soups, but for plain sauces and gravies, for hashes, stews, &c. Then there are portable soup-tablets, made both by English and foreign firms. These only require the addition of stock or water, and are- a useful addition to the store-cupboard, as they furnish a ready means for the quick preparation of soup. Besides giving thickness or body, they give also a rich look to the soup; and, in the case of plain meat liquor or bone stock being hand}', it may be made to do duty for a much better stock by the addition of these preparations, with a little suitable flavouring. We would strongly advise that tins be bought in preference to packets; in the latter form, the flavour and colour are impaired, but in tins, from four ounces upwards, the desic- cated soup in powder keeps almost indefinitely. Another form of desiccated soup, very highly concentrated and made into tiny cakes, is especially suitable for travellers, as it occupies but little space. Family Soup.—Take the liquor from any meat or poultry, or bone stock, or ordinary liquor from the stock-pot. If the first named, boil it until reduced to half the quantity; to each quart allow a good teacupful or so of mixed vegetables, minced or sliced—celery, onions, leeks, turnips, carrots, and a bit of parsnip, some chopped parsley, and a little mixed herbs, dried, tied in muslin, or some fresh herbs, and a bay-leaf and parsley tied together. Boil these until the whole can be sieved or passed through a colander or potato-masher; return it to the pan, and thicken with either of the following:—Crushed French tapioca or sago—these will take fif- teen minutes; ground rice or rice- flour, mixed with water to a paste —these will take ten minutes ; corn- flour or potato-flour — five to ton minutes’ boiling will be sufficient ; or any cooked grain, rice, barley, &c., can be used, or cold macaroni cut into short lengths. These only want warming up, and the soup is ready. Where oatmeal porridge is a stand- ing dish, some cooked oatmeal is a valuable thickening medium. Whole wheatmeal, too, is very nourishing, and may bo added cooked or raw; if the latter, it will take nearly an hour. Baw oatmeal, coarse or medium, takes more than an hour. Barley-flour or fine oatmeal can be used with advantage in a soup of this kind, and ground haricot beans, though less smooth, are excellent for thickening purposes. (See also Desiccated Soup.) Cold potatoes can be used up in this way. For a brown soup add a little colouring, and, if convenient, fry the vegetables before adding; or if only an onion is fried and the rest of the vegetables used plainly the soup is much more savoury. In a white soup any remains of onion sauce, celery sauce, parsley sauce, or caper sauce (besidesmany others), may be used up, if made with meat liquor or milk (of course, if with fish liquor they would be unsuitable). We men- tion this because the scrapings of a sauce tureen are so often wasted ; but in a subsequent chapter on Scrap Cookery we show how this may be easily avoided. Flageolet Puree (Good).—Re- quired : one pint of milk, one quart of stock (No. 9), three eggs, one tin of flageolets, herbs, vegetables, croutons, and seasoning. Cost, about Is. Sd. Put the stock into a saucepan, with the flageolets (green haricot beans) and a pinch of sugar; add herbs as follows, tied together :—A sprig each of thyme and parsley, a bay-loaf, and a few leaves of spinach or beetroot tops; boil up, and pass through a sieve, after standing a timo to oxtract the herb flavour. Put tho liquor back into the saucepan, and add tho milk, first boiled with two ounces of arrowroot. Beat the yolks of two eggs up in the tureen with a little of tho hot milk, then add the soup gradually, and sorvo (after seasoning to taste) with croutons prepared as follows: — Cut someUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 46 heart - shaped pieces of bread, fry them a light brown, and put on each a little pile of cooked vege- tables prepared as for Julienne Sour. Boil an egg hard, and sprinkle a little of the sieved yolk over each, and then a pinch of the white of the egg, also sieved. The soup should be coloured with a little vegetable green colouring. Game Soup (Economical).—Sup- posing the remains of a pheasant, brace of partridges, or grouse, to he in the larder, break up the bones, and cover them with cold stock (No. 4 or 5), with a few vegetables in slices, and some herbs and spices, with a bit of ham in dice, if handy. Boil until the hones are dry and the meat can he rubbed through a sievo; after sieving, add some fine bread-crumbs, equal in bulk to the meat, and season with powdered herbs, salt, and pepper; then pound the whole to a paste. Add to it the soup, with more stock, until it looks as thick as cream, then boil it up with a few drops of lemon-juice, and add a dessert-spoonful or so of wine to a quart of soup ; or the soup may bo thickened and boiled up before the pounded meat is added. This makes the soup still more economical, as a little moat will then go a long way. A mixture of game, or part poultry with part game, can bo used. Claret is sometimes used for game soups in- stead of sherry. Before pounding the bread, soak it in a little stock for a while, and then squeeze it. It will be smoother if a little butter be added, but the soup must be skimmed quite clear of grease. Game Soup (Good).—Any birds too old for roasting may be used; grouse and partridges, or others, may be mixed. Break up the bones, after frying or semi-roasting the birds—this gives a richer flavour—and put them on to boil in the stock with the meat, except breast and wings. Follow the directions for Pheasant Sour, or for Game Soup (Economical), and after sieving the soup, and as much meat as will pass through, it should bo put back in the pan with the meat of the wings and breast, which may be cut into thin slices—i.e., fillets, dice, or thin shreds; the latter,' however, are more appropriate for garnishing clear game soups—or quenelles can be added, which see. Cost, very variable. Game Soup (Good Clear).—Use cooked birds, or semi-cooked, for this. To each pound of meat and bone, well broken up, allow a quart of stock (No. 5, 6, or 7), with a good seasoning of herbs, some fresh vegetables, a few mushrooms, and a little salt, mignonette pepper, and a clove or two. Boil until reduced a third, then strain, and when cold, skim and clarify, using raw rabbit or hare instead of meat for the pur- pose. (Sec p. 28.) Add wine, and some quenelles of game or beef, and savoury custard as garnish. (See Index.) Giblet Soup. — Required: two sets of goose giblets or four sets of duck giblets, two quarts of stock (No. 4), vegetables, herbs, and seasoning (seeOx-Tail Sour), a slice of lean ham, a couple of ounces of dripping, salt and pepper, and a slice of bread. Cost, uncertain. Prepare the giblets as for a pie (see Recipe) ; cut the gizzards into half-inch squares, put them in a pan with the other ingredients, and fry a little; then add the stock, and boil slowly; remove the parts as they become tender, and keep hot in the tureen. When all are done, thicken the soup with brown flour or roux, add more salt to taste, and a little browning and mushroom ketchup; serve with the bread toasted arvjl cut into squares or strips. This is for a plain family soup. For richer kinds, remove the meat from the bones, and pound or sieve it. Or the soup may be clarified and flavoured with wine, and some of the best of the meat put in in small oven-sized pieces. A soup made with giblets and an ox- tail is very savoury and good. This may be thick or clear. Both the tail and giblets should be served in it. When a goose has been boiled the47 STOCKS AND SOUPS. giblets may be cooked in the liquor, but it must be left until next day, and very carefully freed from fat. A still better giblet soup is derivable from the liquid if stock instead of water be used for boiling the goose. Golden Puree.—Required : two carrots, two tomatoes, one parsnip, two ounces of polenta, two ounces of butter, seiisoning, one egg, three pints of stock (No. 1 or 2), and a teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Cost, about lOd. Brush and scrape the carrots, peel the parsnip, slice them thinly, and break up the tomatoes; cook them in the butter for twenty minutes, add the stock and sugar, a little salt and pepper, and boil until they will pass readily through a fine wire sieve; then return the whole to the pan with the polenta (or golden maize meal), mixed smooth- ly with water or cold stock, and boil for twenty minutes more. Beat up the egg in the tureen, and add the boiling- soup very gradually, beating all the time ; stir in the lemon-juice, and serve at once. If polenta is not handy, use yellow semolina, but it will take an hour to boil. It should he put in after the soup is sieved, and extra stock must be added to allow for the reduction by the long boiling. It will be safer to beat up the egg with a spoonful or two of stock under boiling point, then to add half a pint or so of the soup before the whole is added, or, owing to the acidity of the tomatoes and lemon, it is apt to curdle. Gravy Soup a la Don.— Re- quired : a quart of stock (No. 5), a gill of fresh tomato pulp, a glass of port or good claret, a couple of sheep’s kidneys, a dessert-spoonful of good chutney, the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper- corns, one onion, two cloves, and a tea- spoonful of brown roux. Cost, about Is. 2d. Break up some ripo tomatoes, sieve them, and add the clear pulp to the stock,with the onion minced, the spice, chutney, and the kidneys very finely minced. Tomato conserve or catsup can be used instead of fresh ones. Boil gently for half to three-quarters of an hour, then pour the soup through a sieve; put it back in the pan, with the roux and seasoning, add the wine, boil for a few minutes, (hen serve. A few drops of carmine colouring will give a rich brown colour to this; too much will make it red. The object is to deepen the brown shade. Green Pea Puree.—Required; a quart of stock (No. 10), a pint of green peas (measured after shelling), a small lettuce, half a small cucumber, a few leaves of spinach, the shells of the peas, salt, sugar, pepper, and a sprig of mint. Cost, about 10d. Break up the shells of the peas; wash them and the spinach ; wash and shred the lettuce, and put them into the boiling stock, with the sugar and a teaspoonful of salt; boil until the lettuce and spinach are pulpy, then pass through a fine hair sieve. Boil the peas and cucumber in salted water, with a pinch of sugar, then pass the whole through a coarser sieve; mix with the first-named liquid, season to taste, boil up, and serve with fried bread in dice shapes. This is very cheap and good. In boiling the peas, only just enough water to cover them is needed, and they should boil fast. Green Pea Soup.—This is richer than the foregoing. The ingredients are the same, but the peas arc cooked in two ounces of butter, with a gill of boiling water, and a pinch of salt and sugar, for half an hour, or until tender; they must be shaken frequently. Part of them are sieved, and part reserved for adding whole, just before serving. Thicken this soup with two ounces of arrowroot mixed with cold water, and boil for five minutes. A few drops of vegetable-green colouring may bo added. Cost, about Is. Haricot Puree, White.—Re- quired: a quart of small white haricot beans, half a head of celery (innerpart only), °no medium-sized onion (SpanishUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 48 preferably), the white part of four leeks, a small teaspoonl'ul of white peppercorns, three quarts of stock (No. 10), a pint of milk, and half a tablespoonful or more of salt. Cost, about lOd. Soak the beans in cold water for twenty-four hours, throw away any discoloured or floating ones; put them in a pan with the cold stock, pepper- corns, arid sliced vegetables, and bring to the boil slowly. Simmer for three or four hours, then sieve the whole: a coarse wire sieve will do for this; add the salt, and milk separately heated, re-boil, and serve with fried bread. Add no salt to this until the beans are quite soft. “ Giant haricots ” may bo used, but the skins are tougher, and they take longer to cook. Split haricots may be had; they take less time. The foregoing is for a plain puree, but highly nourishing. For a richer one use stock No. 1, and add half a pint of single cream in place of half the milk. Or the water from boiled poultry or meat makes a good stock for this. A morsel of butter added assists the cooking of the beans. Hare Soup.—This is very econo- mical. Required : a hare, three quarts of cold water or stock (No. 2), one onion, one carrot, one turnip, a score of black peppercorns, salt, a table- spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and the dregs of a bottle of port, a large bunch of herbs (hay-leaf, thyme, marjoram, and parsley), a small slice of ham, three ounces of browned flour, one ounce of clarified fat. Cost, about 5s. Wash and joint the hare as if for jugging, dry the pieces, and lay them, with the ham, vegetables, herbs, and clarified fat (first heated,) in a pan ; stir until well browned. Put in the water or stock, stir all the time until it boils ; skim well, add a little salt, and skim again; then cover, and boil until the hare is tender. Take out the back, shoulders, and legs, and put them aside. Continue the boiling until the meat and vegetables in the pan will pass through a coarse sieve. After this treatment return the whole to the pan, with the ketchup and seasoning; mix the flour with cold water, add it,’ and boil up for a few minutes, and put in the wine just before serving. Put the bones and trimmings into the stock-pot. The back, shoulders, and legs will make a separate dish. (See Recipes under Hare.) Hai’e Soup (Rich).—Proceed as above directed, but use a better stock- one similar to or made by the recipe for No. 5 is most suitable; or use a clear stock, and add a little roitx or extract of meat. A quarter of an hour before serving cut up the meat from the joints of the hare that were set aside (see preceding recipe) into slices, then into strips, as equal in size ns possible ; put them in the soup, with a table- spoonful of tomato jelly or half tho quantity of red-currant jelly, and a little fresh tomato pulp or conserve; these two flavours blended give a decided “ tone ” to hare soup. Then add w’ine (double tho quantity abovo given), and some forcemeat-balls or game quenelles ; cover, and leave for a few minutes, but do not boil again. The forcemeat-balls must be cooked in stock before adding them. It is an open question whether tho blood of the hare is an improvement. Some consider it tho making of tho soup, others shudder at the bare mention of it. When it is added, it should be stirred very gradually to the soup, after first mixing it with a spoonful or two under boiling point. After the mixing, the soup should stand at simmering point only, if it boils it will curdle. Hotch-potch.—This is a recipe for use in warm weather. Take three quarts of mutton broth; when it boils, season a little, and slice into it a supply’ of young vegetables—carrots, turnips, onions, lettuce, or young cabbage, cauliflower in sprigs, and some chopped parsley—enough altogether to fill a quart measure. Boil for an hour andSTOCKS AND SOUPS. 49 a half, then put in some lean chops from lamb or tender mutton; in an hour add a pint of young green peas. As soon as the peas are done, serve, after season- ing. The meat should he freed from superfluous fat—about two to three pounds for this quantity of liquid, it may he from the neck, breast, or loin. If the vegetables are put in whole, which is sometimes preferred, they should he taken out and beaten to pulp before the soup is served. One of the nicest forms of hotch-potch is made from lamb previously boned; and besides the vegetables used with it, some more peas are cooked separately, and put in last thing. Almost needless to add, such a dish as this takes the place both of meat and soup. Hotch-potch, Winter.—Put a pound of dried green peas into water to soak the night before it is intended to make the hotch-potch. Take two pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton and two pounds of the shin of beet Cut the mutton into neat cutlets, free from all superfluous fat, and the beef into small square pieces. Set them aside until wanted. Put four quarts of water into a stew-pan, with two sliced carrots, two sliced turnips, four onions, a teaspoonful of bruised celery-seed tied in muslin, the soaked peas, and a whole turnip and carrot. Add the beef, and cook gently for an hour; then put in the mutton, and cook for another hour and a half, or until the peas are soft. Take out the whole carrot and turnip, beat them to pulp, put them back in the pan with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. Haricot beans or lentils can be used in place of peas. Iced 3oup.—This is a modification of a soup popular in Russia and other countries. A decoction of sorrel, fennel, and young beetroot (just the green tops), is first made by boiling a handful of each in water until well flavoured. With a pint of the strained liquid mix a pint of good white stock and half a pint of cream, a delicate seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, some chopped parsley, and the points of some boiled asparagus (about a score will do). The same number of pea-shaped pieces of cooked carrot are a further improve- ment. Set this on ice or in a refrig- erator when cold, and just before serv- ing put in some hard-boiled eggs cut in dice, and a dozen cooked prawns or double the number of shrimps. In a subsequent chapter on Ices, full particulars are given of the various methods of icing soups. Julienne Soup.—This, if well made, is delicious. Required: vege- tables, some or all of the following—- carrots, turnips, leeks or onions, celery, groen peas, asparagus points, French beans, lettuce, sorrel, tarragon, chervil, butter, salt, sugar, pepper, and some clear stock. It is difficult to give any exact proportions for this, but the vegetables should be measured after they are cut up, and about six times the measure of stock will be wanted, or a larger proportion of vegetables will he preferred by some. Cut the vegetables, after cleaning, into shreds as thick as a match, and an inch or rather more in length. For half a pint allow an ounce of butter; sweat the vegetables in this, with a little sugar, for ten to twenty minutes, according to the age of the vegetables: (shake often ; they should acquire but little colour) then add the stock, and boil for an hour very gently. The French beans are preferable separately boiled, and put in near the end, with the lettuce shredded, a few sprigs of chervil, just divided into leaves; the tarragon leaves must be cut in long thin strips (a teaspoonful is enough for two quarts of soup.) Asparagus stalks, if used, may be cooked with the other vegetables ; the points will take less time. French turnips take longer cooking than English. Vegetables for Julienno are often cooked separately and put in the clear stock last thing. This mothod pro- duces loss of flavour, in fact a total lack of the delicious blended taste which50 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. is so characteristic of a true French Julienne as prepared in the foregoing way. Stock No. 8 is suitable for this soup. For Julienne Maigre a great favourite with some people—water or a vegetable stock may be used. Julienne Soup (from dried vege- tables).-—The dried shredded vege- tables, sold in packets, are useful for this when fresh ones are not forth- coming, or are too old for use. They are quite hard, and require soaking before boiling, and although not con- vertible into Julienne proper by the preliminary sweating process, an im- provement is effected by parboiling them in water, and then draining them, then cooking them in a little butter, and adding them (with the water in which they were boiled) to the stock to finish them. For plain soups they may simply be boiled in the stock, after soaking. If possible, some shredded lettuce or other “green meat” should bo added (purslain is a herb commonly used abroad). A drop of tarragon vinegar and a pinch of sugar will develop the flavour of the vegetables. Kidney Soup.—Required : an ox kidney, a quart of stock (No. 4), a leek or small onion, a few slices of carrot and celery stalks, a bunch of herbs, salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of sherry, a dessertspoonful of brown roux, a little fat or butter. Cost, about Is. 3d. Wash tho kidney, take out the core, then slice the kidney ; rinse quickly in vinegar and water, dry well, and put in a stew-pan, with tho hot fat and tho vegetables; brown all over, then put in the cold stock; take off the fat from the top, bring to the boil slowly, add salt, and skim well; then boil, covered, for an hour and a half. Strain the soup through a sieve, pressing the kidney ; but it must not go through. Return the liquid to the saucepan, add the roux, boil, and skim well; then put in the sherry, and season to taste. Kidney Soup (Clear).—Make it in the same way as the preceding, but use stock No. 8, and clarify the soup with eggs, or strain it 'through a tammy after tho kidney is removed. This must be made the day before it is wanted, that the fat may be removed. Or if this is not convenient, cook the kidney and vegetables without the preliminary frying. Kinross Soup.— Required: a gallon of water, eight ounces of peat 1 barley, a handful of watercress, a couple of bunches of young radishes, a bunch of young onions, salt and pepper, two ounces of butter, half a pint of canned tomatoes. Cost, about 9d. Wash and scald the barley ; soak it in the cold water for several hours, then put it on to hoil with half the butter. Cook slowly for two hours, then put in another pan the tomatoes, rest of the butter, and tho radishes and onions, washed and cut thinly; cook, with frequent stirring, to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, and add to the barley. Pick the cress from the stalks; add the leaves to the soup, with seasoning to taste : boil for a minute or two more, then serve. The above is the recipe of a lecturer on vegetarian cookery, and a first-rate soup is the result. The radishes are somewhat of an innovation; the flavour is very agreeable, and cooked radishes will agree when they cannot be taken in the raw state. They can be used in all sorts of vegetable soups, if liked. Lentil Soup.—Required: a gallon of cold water, one pound of split Egyptian lentils, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a small teaspoonful of peppercorns and a few allspice berries, mixed, a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, one ounce of dripping, one pint of milk, a head of celery, two carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, half a pound of onions, and two or three ounces of broken rice or other cereal. Cost, about Is. Wash the lentils well until the water comes away clean; put them to soak all night in the water, then bring them to the boil with the sugar and51 STOCKS AND SOUPS. dripping; skim well: prepare and slice the vegetaliles, add them, and boil for a couple of horn's, stirring often; then put in the rice and parsley, season to taste, and cook for an hour or so longer. Pass through a coarse sieve or colander, put back in the pan with the milk, boiled separately, re-boil, and serve. Mint can be used instead of parsley. If whole rice or other cereal, as oat- meal, hominy, or barley, is used, two hours must be allowed for the cooking. Sago and some other kinds will take less time. Pea-flour, maize-flour, or any other ground cereal, can .be used instead of the whole grain, if more convenient. Never add salt until the lentils are soft, and do not stir with an iron spoon. These remarks apply equally to haricot beans—all the varieties—also to dried peas. Contact with the iron spoon tends to shrivel them. Meg Merrilies’ Soup.—A soup for the sportsman or country gentle- man when game is abundant. In seasons of scarcity meat helps to form the basis or stock; but for the gourmet, boil down a rather old hare with the trimmings and inferior parts of venison and any game-bones; but all should be fresh. Use three quarts of water for three pounds of meat and bones, with a bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, two large turnips, two carrots, two middle-sized onions, each stuck with a clove, a dessertspoonful of whole pepper, and one of allspice. When boiled to a pulp, strain, and add to the stock as great a variety of game as can be procured—a young hare, or part of one (neatly jointed), black-cock, partridge, pheasant, grouse, &c.—all cut and well spiced, to be fried slightly, or not, according to taste, before being put into the strained stock. The blood of the hare mnsf not be omitted. Mix a little broth with a good thickening of rice-flour, and add it to the rest. More seasoning will be required of allspice, pepper, and salt. When boiling, throw in a dozen button onions, two sticks of celery (cut into quarter-inch lengths), and tho dregs of a bottle of port. Simmer gently until the gamo is tender, then serve, with a little more wine put in the last thing. Milk Soup. — (Suitable for child- ren.) Required: a pint each of milk, and water from boiled meat, a few potatoes baked in their skins, two ounces of hominy, salt and pepper, and some brown bread rubbed through a sieve or cut into small squares. Cost, about od. Make tho meat-water hot, mix it with tho potatoes, then cook tho hominy in the milk for an hour, as if for porridge; mix the contents of the two pans, and boil up, with seasoning to taste; pour the soup over the bread, and serve. Before cooking the hominy it should be washed and soaked for a few hours in half a pint of cold water, and brought to the boil in the water before the milk is added. This is a very nutritious soup. Semolina can be used instead of hominy. It is equally nourishing, and takes rather less time to cook. Mock Giblet Soup.—Take a quart of any plain brown stock, thicken and season it, and put in some powdered herbs and a heaping tabic- spoonful of apple-sauce, and sage and onion stuffing from roast pork or other meat. Tho sauce and stuffing are some- times added also to Giulet Sour. The compound is a very savoury one, although it is not suited to every one’s palate. It affords a convenient method of utilising any scraps of the kind. If more convenient, some small forcemeat- balls, seasoned with sago and onions, may be added to the soup, together with a largo apple, grated. Mock Hare Soup.—This is a vegetarian recipe. Required: threo quarts of water or stock (No. 11), a pint of brown lentils and rod haricots, mixed, half a pound of mushrooms, a largo onion, a bunch of herbs, a small teaspoonful of celery-salt, one ouneoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 52 each of butter and flour, a tablespoon- ful of tomato pulp and red currant jelly. Cost, about Is. Wash and soak the beans and lentils, boil them with the butter, mushrooms, and onions (the herbs and spices tied in muslin), until the whole can be sieved easily ; then add the flour, to- mato pulp, jelly, and salt; boil up, and give ten minutes more simmering. This is a most excellent soup. If liked, small savoury balls can be served with it; they are made by mixing brown bread crumbs, say a teacupful, with an ounce each of butter and boiled rice, a good seasoning of herbs, pepper and salt, two raw eggs, and a little milk; the mixture should bo quite stiff. It is then shaped the size of small wal- nuts, and boiled separately in a little stock for twenty minutes, or they can be cooked in a steamer; they would not cook so well in the thick soup. Cost, about 5d. Mock Turtle Soup.—This is the staple soup of English life, to be met with in most of the dining-rooms and hotels, not only in London, but almost everywhere in Great Britain. As its name implies, it is an imitation of turtle soup, introduced to us by our navigators about one hundred years since. The essential point in mock turtle must, therefore, be the “ lumpy delight ” furnished by calf’s head; and the "choice of the head should be a matter of some importance. It should be large, firm, and fat, full of brain, with good tongue and cheeks. The preparation of this soup will take a good deal of time, and the recipe and instructions are necessarily lengthy; but if carefully followed a soup almost equal to real turtle may be had at considerably less cost; indeed, it is often preferred to the real thing. Many cooks, however, spoil mock turtle by using water instead of Btock and by careless flavouring, that is, by insufficient flavouring; whereas, if it is in any way to resemble the prepara- tion from which it takes its name, attention in this respect is particularly necessary : for everyone knows that a calf’s head in itself is a most insipid thing ; it will only furnish body to the soup. We would also call attention to a common mistake—a serious one, for it involves waste—that is, to boil the head in water until tender, then to throw away the water, and add stock. Those of our reader’s who have fol- lowed our directions for stock making will at once see the folly of this pro- ceeding, and the fact that these direc- tions are sometimes found in cookery books furnishes ample proof that the propounders of such recipes were ignorant of the first principles of the art of cooking. Before giving any recipes for the soup we will describe the preparation of the head. It must be from a freshly-killed calf, and should be bought of the butcher unskinned: that is, the hair should be all removed, but the skin left on. It will, how- ever, be necessary to give the head an additional scrape to free it from all trace of hair. It should be put into water nearly boiling for a few minutes, then taken out and scraped with a blunt knife, the process being repeated if necessary. It must then be put into cold water and well washed, all the cavities being cleansed with the fingers (the soft part round the nose to be thrown away—i.e., the soft bony part which can be pulled away with the fingers; we do not mean that anything is to be cut); a little salt helps to re- move any offensive matter; then take out the brains, put them in a basin of cold water; lay the head in cold water and salt for twelve hours, renewing it several times, or, better still, leave it under a running tap for some hours. When ready for use, take it from the water and dry it. This treatment is needed for calf’s head cooked in any way. Mock Turtle Soup (Good).— Required: a calf’s head, a gallon of stock (No. 8), herbs, spices, vegetables, &c. Cost, about 4s. For a richer soup use stock No. 6 or 7. Put the head, prepared ns above,STOCKS ANL) SOUPS. 53 into the cold stock, with a little salt; bring to tho boil and skim : boil until tho meat can be removed from tho bones—from threo to four hours; it should be tender, but not over-done; remove it carefully, and press it be- tween two dishes, tho under ono upside down; skin the tongue, and put it by to cool. Return tho bones to tho sauce- pan with a little more stilt, and go on boiling. In a clean saucepan put a slice of ham, cut up, one ounce of butter, herbs as for Tuktle Sour, a carrot, a turnip, half a parsnip, or less, a few leeks, white part only,-or an onion or two stuck with a few cloves, a score of white peppercorns or some mig- nonette pepper, a few allspice berries, and if handy, a couple of ounces of button mushrooms; fry these for twenty minutes, then add a pint of told stock, and boil for an hour or more, to half the quantity. Remove tho bones, and strain the contents of the second saucepan to the first. Add some brown roux, letting it boil up well until as thick as cream ; skim carefully, put in salt to taste, tho juice of half a lemon, a little soluble cayenne pepper, and, if no mushrooms were used, a dash of good ketchup. Cut up the meat into squares of an inch and a half or so; it will not all be required : the thickest should be chosen ; cut the tongue into cubes, and add them, with a gill, or nearly, of sherry or Madeira; boil for a few minutes, then serve. Add, if liked, brain-balls, egg-balls, or quenelles (see Index for Recipes), and hand cut lemon in quarters, and cayenne, with the soup. Mock Turtle Soup.—This is very inexpensive. It would be more appropriately entitled Calf’s Head Sot'F. We will suppose that a calf’s head has been boiled for dinner. If it is desired to convert the remnants into soup, proceed as followsInto the water used in boiling put the bones of the head, a slice of ham, and some vege- tables, herbs, 4c., and boil it steadily for a few hours, until there remains Only a couple or three pints. Then strain it, put it in a saucepan with thickening, ns before, or plain flour, if browned, will do; add a littlo colouring and ketchup, or store sauce, a squeezo of lemon-juico, and seasoning to taste; cut up the remains of the moat as even in size as possible; boil for a few minutes, and servo. A spoonful of wine may bo added or not. This is very littlo trouble. Naturally tho soup is less rich than tho first one, and paler—tho non-frying of the vege- tables makes a great difference in this respect, and a much better soup may bo had from these materials by follow- ing the modo given in the previous recipe. As this soup costs so little, the extra trouble is well bestowed. In both these soups, or any others in which dried herbs are recommended, it must be remembered that they are not given in preference to fresh ones. Should the soup be made when fresh herbs can bo had, they should always be used, a less quantity suffices. Mock Turtle Soup (made with l’ig’s Head).—Take half a pig’s head from a young pig, scald it thoroughly, and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of good, nicely-flavoured stock (Nos. 4 or 8 aro most suitable). Lot it simmer gently for an hour and a half; take it up, let it partially cool, cut the meat into neat squares, and lay these between two dishes, the bottom one being placed upside down, to keep the meat from curling. Put tho bones and trimmings of the head back into the saucepan, and let them simmer an hour longer, with a eouplo of bay-leaves, fresh vegetables, thyme, and parsley, and a little more seasoning should tho stock require it, and be very careful to remove the scum as it rises. Pour out tho soup, let it remain until tho next day, and then take tho cako of fat from tho top. Thicken with brown j thickening, and after it has boiled let it simmer by the side of tho fire, and as tho fat is thrown up, remove it. When no more rises, put in the pieces of meat. Lot them boil gently till tender, add a glassful of sherry and54 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. a pinch of cayenne, and serve very hot. Cost, about 6d. per quart. Mock turtle soup made with pig’s head is objected to very often because it so frequently tastes greasy. Conse- quently, great caro should be’taken to get rid of the fat. This can only be done by making the soup the day be- fore it is wanted, so that it can be poured out, and when cold the cake of fat can bo taken from the top. As even after this a great deal of fat may bo held in solution in the soup, the liquor should be boiled again in a covered saucepan, and afterwards sim- mered gently by the side of the fire, and the fat removed as it is thrown up. Finish this off as directed for Mock Tciitle. If it can be had, a calf’s foot is an improvement to this, the meat being cut up and served in the soup ; then less of the head is needed. In any case, uso only a por- tion of it, as it is very rich. Another good soup of the kind can bo obtained from a set of pig’s feet and cars. The latter must be boiled for a very long timo; they will enrich the soup and furnish a separate dish. (See recipes for Pig’s Feet, various ways.) Mushroom Soup. — Required: half a pound of flap mushrooms, a quart of stock (No. 4), salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, an ounce and a half of butter, two ounces of browned flour. Cost, about 9d. Peel and stalk the mushrooms, break them up, and put them into a small stew-pan with the butter, lemon-juice, and parsley — a dessert - spoonful of each; cover, and leave them cooking gently until they can be rubbed through a sieve. Wash the stalks and peelings, tie them in muslin, and simmer them in the stock for a short time to draw out the flavour, then remove them; add the flour, mixed with cold water, and the mushroom mixture, boil for ton or fifteen minutes,season, and serve. Skim during the boiling. For a superior soup uso slock No. 7, add a couple of ounces of minced ham to tho mushrooms, and serve fined croutons with tho soup. When tho flavour is not disliked, a morsel of chopped shalot may be mixed with tho mushrooms. Mushroom Soup (White).— Substitute medium white stock for the above, and thicken it with a white mushroom puree (see Dkessed Vege- tables) until as thick as good cream; add salt, cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and a gill of hot cream. Serve as hot as possible. Mutton Broth.—Required : two quarts of the pot liquor from boiled mutton, two ounces of pearl barley, a carrot, a turnip, half a dozen small onions, a couple of leeks, salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Take the fat from the liquor when cold; re-boil it, and add the vegetables, cleansed and sliced or cut into strips or dice. The leeks should be freed from tho root, dark green leaves, and ends, but the green stalk should be left on. Tho barley needs washing and scalding, and at least two hours’ boil- ing. The carrots and other vegetables need not be fresh; any left over from the previous day can be used up. Add the parsley a few minutes beforo Serving, and season delicately. Mutton Broth (No. 2).—This is more nourishing. Allow a pound and a half of fresh lean meat—scrag-end of the neck will do—to the above quantity of liquid, either water or liquor from boiled mutton; wash the meat well, and add the water cold; bring to the boil with a little salt, skim well, and cook for a couple of hours. Add vegetables, &c., as above. Cut the meat into squaresand servo in the broth, and put the bones into the stock-pot. Rice can be used instead of barley. Okra Soup.—Required: a tin of okra (or gumbo), salt, pepper, and herbs, an onion, a stalk of celery, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, two quarts of stock (No. 4), half a pound of cooked meat, a slice of raw ham,STOCKS AND SOUPS. 55 and. one ounce of com-flour. Cost, about 2s. 2d. Put the ham (or bacon will do) into a pan, with the celery and onion shred- ded very finely, the tomato catsup and seasoning, with a good bunch of herbs, and let them cook slowly, covered, for twenty minutes. Then add the stock, bring to the boil, and skim well; take out the ham, put in the okra, and cook for half an hour slowly, skimming often. Then stir in the corn-flour, mixed with cold stock to a paste, and more salt and pepper, as this soup re- quires to be rather highly seasoned; boil up, then put in the meat—it may be beef or mutton—minced as finely as possible and freed from every particle of fat, skin, and gristle. If possible, pass it through a mincing machine in preference to mincing by hand. Now put on the cover and leave for ten minutes, but do not boil again; the meat should only become heated through. For a richer soup, use stock No. 7, and add the yolks of a couple or three eggs, and a gill of cream just before serving. Okka and Tomatoes may also be bought in tins. Use it as above, but omit the tomato catsup. For light soups use stock No. 9, and add a little cream or the yolks of some raw eggs- Onion and Gniocchi Soup.— Required: a quart of medium white stock (No. 9), half a pound of small onions, one pint of milk, one ounce of semolina, seasoning, and cheese, two ounces each of Parmesan and good English, and one ounce of butter. Cost, about 7d. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in a couple of ounces of fine flour, cook for a minute, then add the stock and boil up. Peel the onions, shred them, and cook them in the stock, with frequent skimming. While this is going on, prejuiro the gniocchi by put- ting the semolina and half the milk into a saucepan, and cooking for an hour, with salt, pepper, a dust of cayenne, and a bit of butter. When soft, turn out on a dish, and when cold and set, cut it into squares with a sharp knife. Put these into the tureen with the cheese, pour tho hot soup over, and add the other half pint of milk separately boiled. The Parmesan cheese should be grated, the other may be thinly sliced. It should not be dry. If possible, tho gniocchi should be made over-night, and put in the soup just long enough to heat through. Onion Soup, with Cheese - Required : one pound of Spanish onions, two ounces of cheese—Par- mesan or Gruyere—salt and cayenne, one ounce of butter, half a pint of milk, one ounce of flour, and one quart of stock (No. 1). Cost, about Gd. Slice the onions, pour boiling water over, cover them, and leave for a few minutes; then pour the water off. Make the stock hot, put in the onions, and cook until tender enough to sieve. In the saucepan melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the onion puree and the milk; bring all to the boil, add a little seasoning and the grated cheese, and serve very hot. Onion Soup, with Dumplings (a German recipe).—Required : two quarts of boiling water, a large onion, an ounce and a half of flour, a table- spoonful of butter, tho root end of a head of celery, and salt and pepper to taste. Cost, about 7d. First mince the onion and brown it in tho butter, add the flour, stir until brown, and the water by degrees; then put in the celery root, cut into thin shreds, and boil until nearly dono. For the dumplings, bent an egg with a gill of milk, add these to four ounces of flour and a seasoning of salt, pep- per, and nutmeg; beat hard for ten minutes; then stir in some bread- crumbs, to make tho mixture just firm enough to bo shaped into little halls the size of a small walnut. Put these into tho soup and boil for twenty minutes, then season, and servo as hot as possible.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 56 For another variety of dumplings, take dough made as for household bread, work into it a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered herbs; shape, and cook as above. Ox Cheek Soup.—Required : an ox cheek, a gallon of cold water or weak stock, a good assortment of herbs, vegetables, &c. (see Pot au Feu), and some thickening. Cost, about 2s. The cheek must he washed in salt and water, then soaked for some hours, and wiped dry. Fry the vegetables in a little hot dripping, add the cheek and the water, boil up and skim, then cook very gently for several hours (four or five), and strain the soup; thicken with brown flour or roux, and season to taste, and if liked, put in some of the cheek cut into squares, or some rice or other cereal, or fried bread can he served in the soup, with or without any vegetables. The meat can he served while hot with a nice sauce or gravy, or may be converted into a good break- fast dish. (See Ox Cheek, Potted, and Ox Cheek, Boned and Rolled.) A slice of ham will enrich the soup con- siderably, and a fow mushrooms or tomatoes are a good addition. Button onions, fried lightly, and finished off by boiling them in the soup, are sometimes served in it. Ox Tail Soup (Economical). —Required: one ox tail, three quarts of stock (No. 2), herbs, vegetables, &c.,as for Hare Sour, one ounce of good dripping, two ounces of ham, a table- spoonful of tomato pulp, two ounces of rice-flour or corn-flour, and a little browning. Cost, uncertain; ox tails vary much in price. First wash the tail, joint it, and divide the large joints again; put it in warm water, bring it to the boil, then drain it, and lay it in a pan with the hot fat and ham in dice; put in the vegetables, fry lightly, then pour in the cold stock; this will throw up the fat, which must be removed, and after skimming well (as sometimes tails throw up much scum), cover, and boil for three or four hours until the tail is tender, hut not “ raggy.” Take out the pieces carefully, add the thickening, and boil up ; put in the thin pieces of tail only (keep the thick end for a separate dish), and if liked, some of tho vegetables, sieved or cut into shapes; or a carrot and turnip may be cooked separately, and cut as for Julienne or Brunoise Soup. For richer soup, put in a little sherry and use a better stock (as No. 8). Palestine Puree.—(A very good vegetarian recipe.) Required: four pounds of artichokes, six small onions, or the white part of the same number of leeks, three turnips thickly peeled, one pint of milk, three pints of water, salt, sugar, and pepper, and a teaspoonful of celery salt. Cost, about Is. Id. In preparing the vegetables, keep them well under water until the last moment, in order to preserve their colour ; slice them all, and put them in an enamelled pan, with the celery salt, a pinch of white sugar, some white peppercorns, and the butter; cover and sweat for a few minutes, then add the boiling water, and cook to a complete pulp; add the boiling milk, with seasoning to taste; remove the peppercorns, and serve with fried bread cut into dice. A spoonful or two of onion or celery sauce can be used for flavouring this, and it may be thickened a little with roux or corn-flour. For a better soup, stock No. 11 is usoful, or tho water from boiled rice or macaroni. Pancake Soup. — This is a German soup. Required: two pints of clear stock (No. 8) and two good- sized pancakes, made with a plain batter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and herbs, and filed in as little fat as possible. Cost, about 4d. Have the stock ready boiling. After frying the pancakes, drain them be- tween a couple of sheets of paper, then cut them into strips, squares, diamonds, or with a small round cutter. Slip them into the soup, and boil fast for five minutes. Serve at once.STOCKS AND SOU PS. 5 7 Parsnip Puree.—Any of the recipes for other vegetable purees may be followed for this, but a soup of parsnips alone is seldom liked; generally a mixture of potatoes, carrots, turnips, or vegetable marrow, is pre- ferred ; an onion and some herbs should also be added. The parsnips should bo cooked in stock, and boiling milk added after the puree is sieved. To counter- act the sweetness of parsnip soup, a little tomato sauce is useful, or a few chops of some flavoured vinegar: tarragon or cucumber may be used with advantage. Tomato vinegar is also good for imparting piquancy. Peas Soup.—Required: a gallon of stock, one pound of split peas, vegetables as for Lentil Sour, salt, pepper, herbs, and dripping. Cost, about 6d. After washing the peas, soak them all night in the stock (that from boiled pork is suitable, or bone or other plain stock will do) ; put them on to boil, with a bit of dripping or the pot skirr.mings ; fry the vegetables in a little more fat (reserving a carrot), add these when the liquid boils; skim well, and cook for about three hours, until the soup can be passed through a sieve or colander. Put it back in the pan with the remaining carrot grated and any desired thickening, sago gives a very pleasant smoothness; boil half an hour longer, then season to taste, and serve with dried mint or sage, and fried or toasted bread. A teaspoonful or more of curry-powder to each quart is a good addition to peas soup. Peas Soup (Superior).—Boil the peas as above directed, but use medium white stock (No. 9), and add a couple of ounces of fresh butter and a pinch of sugar to tho peas; do not fry the vegetables; add them all, thinly sliced, after just sweating them in butter, without browning. Boil until the soup can be rubbed through a hair sieve, then return it to the pan, and add boiling milk to thin it to the desired consistence, about as thick as cream, and put in a gill of hot cream last thing. Peas Soup (Quickly made).— Required : some peas pudding and any stock from boiled meat. All that has to be done is to blend the stock and remains of pudding together until sufficiently thick, and to season in tho usual way. If liked, small pieces of boiled pork or bacon can be served in the soup. Another way is to mix pea- powder, sold by grocers, with any plain stock; directions for use are given on the packets, but it is advisable to increase the time given for tho boiling. This pea-powder may be had plain or flavoured with herbs; the latter kind, said to contain also a small proportion of meat extract, although in the form of powder, is usually labelled “peasoup.” Mashed potatoes can be added to peas soup : take, say, equal parts of potatoes and peas pudding, and blend smoothly with boiling stock; then re-boil and season. This is liked by many people better than peas soup of the usual kind. Whero peas soup is made often, the pea-powder should not bo bought in packets : it suffers bj* exposure to the air. Tho tins are preferable. Pepper Pot (a Hotch-Potch).— Put four quarts of cold water into a large stew-pan, with a mixture of any meats that may be preferred—either three pounds of gravy beef and half a pound of lean ham, or threo pounds of the neck of mutton and half a pound of pickled pork; add half a cupful of best rice, a bunch of savoury herbs, two large onions, and threo largo potatoes coarsely grated. Skim the liquid carefully during the first half hour, and lot it simmer gently until all the goodness is drawn out of tho meat. This will require from four to six hours. Strain tho soup and let it stand until cold, so that tho fat may bo entirely removed. Pul tho liquid into the stew-pan, with a large fowl cut into joints, then boil very slowly. When tho fowl is almost tender, put in a dozen small, light, suet dumplings, and58 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. a pint and a half of whatever vegetables are in season cut up into small pieces. In summer these will consist of peas, cauliflowers, French beans, lettuces, or spinach; and in winter of carrots, turnips, or celery. Season with cayenne and salt, if required. When the vegetables are done enough, serve the entire preparation in a tureen. In the West Indies, where this dish is a great favourite, it is so highly seasoned that it is universally known as “ pepper pot.” Time, about an hour aftor the fowl is put in. Pheasant Soup.—The remains of a cooked bird will make a small quantity of soup, but for three pints or thereabouts, tho addition of a pheasant partially roasted is essential. Required, in addition, stock (No. 5), and herbs, vegetables, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 5s. Put in a stew-pan an ounce or two of butter and some lean raw ham, in dice, about a quarter of a pound, add a carrot, sliced, some celery, a bunch of herbs, an onion, or a shalot or two, and fry brown ; then put in the remains of the cooked pheasant and the semi-roasted bird—excepting the breast and best part of the wings —add the stock, boil and skim, and cook gently for an hour or so, then rub the meat through a sieve, and strain the soup on to it, keeping back the vegetables. Cut up the meat from the breast and wings into small slices, add it, and a glass of sherry, with salt and a pinch of cayenne, re-heat, and servo. A slight thickening of roux improves. For a superior soup boil the inferior parts of the birds for a still longer time to got a fuller flavoured soup ; strain, and if desired clear, clarify it [see page 21), then put in the sliced meat as before, and rather more wine than above mentioned. Pickle Soup.—This is a popular Russian soup, for which there arc many recipes. Weak stock forms the basis, and pickled cucumbers, with their liquor, are always added ; sour cream and flour mixed are put in just before serving. A very good soup of tho kind, likely to commend itself to English palates, may be made as follows:—Into two quarts of pale clear stock put a couple of table- spoonfuls of minced cucumber pickle, some vinegar, a dessertspoonful of capers and their liquor, the same measure of mango-chutney or pickle, and seasoning to taste, the salt and popper being in moderation, that the soup may retain its piquancy. Boil until the flavours are blended, then put in a teacupful of sour cream and about two or three ounces of fine flour or rice-flour, the latter blended with a little stock. Boil up and serve. Pot au-Feu. — “ This,” says Sir Henry Thompson, “is an admirable dish ” (referring to tho national pot-au- fen of France), “ in which a small portion of meat is made to yield all its nutritive qualities, and to go far in mingling its odour and savour with those of tho fragrant vegetables, in- cluding sweot and savoury herbs, which aro largely added to the stock. The beef, which is an essential portion of the dish, is often eaten hot, after the soup, but sometimes cold, with plenty of green salad and oil—doubtless the most palatable mode of serving.” The bouillon is the broth or soup of tho pot-au-fen, and the well-known soups of a good Paris restaurant, as paymnne and croAte-au-pot, are but slight modifications of the original pot-au-fen ; indeed, the broth may serve as the basis of many excellent soups. The cleanliness of tho vessel is im- portant. A high French authority gives tinned iron or copper the palm, and nothing could bo better than the puro steel pans of our own day when copper is not to bo had. Tho division of the bones is necessary to obtain a good bouillon; in fact, somo authorities contend that nothing short of thorough smashing (when they must be tied in a bag) will suffice. And it must bo re- membered that when they have served tho pot-au-fen they are still of uso for tho stock-pot.STOCKS AMD SOUPS. 59 Fot-au-Feu. — Required : three pounds of fresh beef (it may he the thick part from the shoulder or top of the leg), two pounds of fresh hones, three quarts of cold water, one or two carrots, one turnip, two leeks, one parsnip, four good-sized onions, part of a head of celery, a large hunch of herbs, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, allspice-berries, and cloves (a few only of the latter), and a small dessert- spoonful of salt, added gradually, a portion only being put in at first. Cost, about 2s. 6d. The bones are put in first, then the meat, tied neatly with tape, the herbs and spices in a muslin bag, and the cold water; and upon the gradual boil- ing and thorough skimming much of the success depends. When it boils, add the vegetables gradually, so as not to reduce the temperature of the liquor; skim it again, and then allow it to boil very slowly, but unceasingly, for four or five hours. The liquor should be clear, and of a pale golden-brown colour. When ready to serve, it may be coloured with browning salt or liquid browning, hut either should he most sparingly used. Serve the soup with croutons of bread, and, if liked, some of the vegetables in strips or dice. The meat, if served hot, is dished with the vegetables round it, and a sauce, the base being obtained from the bouillon, served with it. Some- times a cabbage is added to the pot-au- fen; it may be quartered, tied with string, and put in twenty minutes or half an hqpr before serving, but the liquid keeps better if the cabbage be omitted. Another way consists in par-boiling the cabbage in the usual manner, and draining it well before adding it, and this we think is prefer- able. For one reason, any soup left over will not keep so well if the cabbage is boiled in it without the first boiling in water. Potage a. laCeylon.—Required: two quarts of stock (No. 4), two eggs, half-a-pint of cream, an old fowl or rabbit, a tablespoonful each of grated cocoanut, sweet mango-pickle or chut- ney, curry-paste, tamai’inds, and clear hot Indian pickles, a clove of garlic, a large onion, a sour apple, a bay-leaf, a tablespoonful of lemon or lime juice, seasoning, and boiled rice. Cost, about 4s. 9d. if fowl is .used. Joint the fowl, cut it up small, ex- cept the breast, and put it to boil in the stock, a little salt and lemon-juice being added now and then, followed by skimming. When it looks clear, cover it, and boil until the breast is tender; then remove it, cut it into tiny strips, cover, and put them aside. Put the skin and bone back into the pan, boil for two hours longer, then strain through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth, and make up the quantity to two quarts with more of the stock used at first. Then grate the apple, chop the onion, put them in the stock with the cocoa-nut, chutney, garlic, pickles, herbs, and tamarinds; boil until tender, then wring the soup through the tammy. Put it back into the pan with the curry-paste and two ounces of arrowroot mixed with cold stock; boil up well, then put in the shredded fowl, just to get hot. Beat the eggs and cream (the whites of the eggs are to be omitted), heat them in a bain-marie, put into the tureen, and add the soup gradualty, beating well. Last thing, put in the lime-juice and more sea- soning. Potage a la Chasseresse.— Required: two quarts of stock (No. 5), a hunch of herbs, an onion, two cloves, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, one ounce of glaze, a dessertspoon- ful of extract of meat, a calf’s foot, a glass of .Madeira, a dessertspoonful of curry or mulligatawny paste, and twenty quenelles {see Que- nkllbs A LA Chassbuesse, in IIol En- trees.) Cost, about 2s. Make the stock hot, put in the herbs, spices, and onion ; boil a quarter of an hour, add salt to taste, and the curry and glaze, then the moat extract; cook for a few minutes longer. In a clean pan have ready the moat of a calf’s60 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. foot,* cut neatly into half-inch squares, pour on them the wine, and then strain to them the soup. Cover, and in a few minutes slip into the tureen the que- nelles very carefully; pour the hot soup over them, and serve. Potage Et la Conde.— Required: one pound of reel haricots, one onion, a glass of claret, three quarts of stock (No. 2), salt and pepper, a hunch of herbs, and one ounce each of butter and rice-flour. Cost, about 9d. Soak the beans in cold water for twenty-four hours, drain them, and put them on to boil with the cold stock and butter; cook until they can bo sieved, adding the onion (scalded) an hour beforehand. Remove the herbs, return the soup to the pan with the rice-flour blended with the clai'et, and salt and pepper to taste; boil for ten minutes more, and serve with fried croutons. Time, from two to four hours. Potage & la Cond6 (No. 2).— This is an excellent vegetarian soup. Required: beans as above, two largo onions, a few stalks of celery and slices of carrot, herbs and seasoning, ono ounce of butter, two ounces of browned flour, and three quarts of cold water. Cost, about 8d. Wash the,beans, and soak them in the water in which they will be boiled ; put them on with the herbs and a pinch of brown sugar. In another pan fry the vegetables in the butter until well browned; add them, and boil for two to three hours, until they can be sieved; then put them back in the pan, add the thickening, and boil for ten minutes more. Skim well, and season to taste. This is very savoury, and extremely nourishing. Potage a la Crecy.t—Required; carrots, butter, stock (No. 8), seasoning. Cost, about 4d. per quart. For each quart of stock allow four * This should be boiled in the stock-pot, and the meat pressed between two flat dishes until cold. t Sometimes spelt “creci” or “dressy.” large carrots; wash them, and grate the outer part; cut up the inner portion into slices. Put the latter in a pan, with a morsel of white sugar, salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne; add an ounce of butter, and cook for a quarter of an hour; then add the stock, boiling, and cook for an horn' or longer, until the carrots can be sieved; then return the whole to the pan, with the grated carrots, and boil for forty to fifty minutes, adding more stock to make up the quantity. It should be as thick as ordinary cream. Ten minutes before serving put in one ounce of potato-flour, smoothly mixed with a little cold stock. Stir while adding it, and serve very hot, with fried croutons. Potage a la Palermo.—This is one of the best of the maigre soups. Re- quired: two quarts of stock (No. 11), two eggs, four ounces of Naples macaroni, two ounces of butter, salt and pepper, a teacupful of cream, and two dozen croquettes, as under-men- tioned. Cost, about Is. Mako the stock hot, add the season- ing and butter, and the macaroni in half-inch lengths. Boil slowly for thirty or forty minutes, then beat up the eggs and cream ; make them hot by setting the vessel in a saucepan of boiling water, and stirring until thick. Beat the hot soup to this by degrees, and put in the croquettes just before serving. For the croquettes, blanch two ounces of good rice (Carolina), boil it in stock to cover until soft and tender, and the stock* absorbed; season with salt and pepper and one ounce of grated Par- mesan cheese; add about an ounce of dissolved butter and a raw egg well beaten, then leave until cool. Mako up into round balls of even size, dip into beaten egg, and then in crushed vermicelli; repeat this again, then fry 1 About two or three gills will lie needed ; it should be put to the riec by degrees, and not stirred during the cooking. If the sauce- pan be slightly buttered, and the cooking gradual, it will not burn; but for all such preparations a double saucepan is the best.Stocks and soups. 61 a pale golden-brown. Drain before adding to the soup. Potage a la Heine.— Required: a chicken, a blade of mace, a few pepper- corns, salt, one ounce of sweet almonds, half a pint of cream, two pints and a half of stock (No. 9), two ounces of bread-crumbs from a French roll, and one ounce of arrowroot. Cost, about -is. Boil the chicken in the stock until tender, then hike it out and let the stock get cold, when all the fat must be taken off. Skin the bird, and mince all the white meat of the wings and breast; then pound it with the crumbs, moistening with a little hot stock, and pass through a hair-sieve. Cut up the almonds, and soak them in cold stock to cover them for a few hours. When wanted, make the stock hot; add the arrowroot, blended with cold milk to a paste, bring to the boil, and add the stock from the almonds; put in the sieved chicken and bread and the boiling cream ; cover, and leave by the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Season with salt, but it should be a delicately-flavoured soup. The spice should be tied in muslin, and put in the stock for a short time until sufficient flavour has been extracted. For a more economical method, the cream may be reduced, milk taking the place of half of it, and the remains of a cold fowl can be used up. .Some- times rice boiled until tender is used inatea/1 of bread-crumbs, and the almonds can be dispensed with. Note.—The legs of the bird should be reserved for devilling, and the bones put into the stock-pot. Potage a la Heine (No. 2).— Required: three quarts of stock (No. 7), an old fowl, a turnip, an onion, half a head of celery, one ounce of pounded almonds, two ounces of rice, the yolks of three eggs, seasoning, milk, and cream. Cost, about 4s. Boil the fowl in the stock until the breast is tender, then cut off the meat, and put it aside. Oo on with the boiling of the rest until the meat falls from the bones ; free it from skin, and put it in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs (boiled hard) and the rice, which should be boiled with the fowl, and a spoonful or two of milk or cream and the almonds; pound all to a smooth paste, then strain off the stock into a clean pan (the bones and vegetables can go into the stock-pot for further boiling), and make up the quantity to three quarts. Add to the pounded meat the crumb of a small French roll, about a quarter of a pint, after rubbing it through a sieve ; pour on the soup gradually, mixing well, bring it all to the point of boiling by degrees, and let it stand covered for a few minutes, but do not boil again. This will not be pale and delicate- looking, but it is a very excellent flavoured soup. An old rabbit may be used in precisely the same way. Ground almonds maybe used to save the trouble of pounding, and some boiled chestnuts, shelled and pounded, will serve instead of the rice. Potage a la Verona.— Re- quired : a pint and a half of medium white stock (No. 9), a pint of milk, four eggs, some grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of vermicelli, some heart-shaped croutons, salt, and cayenne pepper. Cost, about Is. Boil up the stock, sprinkle in the vermicelli slowly; boil gently, and stir often until tender; then beat up the yolks of two raw eggs with the milk, and thicken it over the fire as if for custard; add the boiling soup to it very gradually, and season to taste. Have the croutons ready, then coat them with the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard and sieved; sieve the whites of the eggs also, and put them in the soup. Arrange the croutons nicely on a dish, and serve grated cheese on a separate dish. Potage ft la Windham.—Put into a saucepan some canned corn, American (a quart tin), a quart cf the liquor from boilod chicken or rabbit, a pint, or theroabouts, of onion sauco, made with milk, salt and pepper to62 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. taste, and a little chopped parsley; add a few drops of celery essence or some celery salt, and a pint of milk previously mixed with one ounce of chestnut-flour, and hoiled. Thin with more boiling- stock to the desired thickness, and serve as hot as possible. This is an American soup; the taste for it is an acquired one, hut it is very wholesome and cheap. Cost of corn, from 7d. to 9d. Potage a, la Xavier. —Re- quired : a couple of quarts of white stock (No. 9), boiled up with a few fresh vegetables, herbs, and seasoning, until nicely flavoured, some butter as under, and some grated cheese. Cost, about Is. Boil the stock, and skim it well. Make a batter by mixing the follow- ing ingredients in the order given—- eight ounces of Hungarian flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, the same of finely- powdered herbs, a fourth ns much white pepper, and a good pinch of grated nutmeg; into the centre drop three eggs, add half a pint of milk, gradually, beating all the time from the centre with the back of a large wooden spoon. Beat hard for a few minutes, then, using a ladle perforated the same as an ordinary colander, put the hatter into the boiling soup, stirring as it falls in. When boiled for ten to fifteen minutes, remove it from the fire and serve, the cheese being handed round. The batter for this must bo regulated by the quality of the flour; more milk may be needed, it should be thin enough to just run through the ladle, but thick enough to retain its shape when in the soup. It is best to try a small quantity, after making as directed, adding more milk if required. Sometimes brown stock is used for the soup, and then stock takes the place of milk in the batter, and wine is sometimes added. Potage Printaniere. — (See Julienne or Bhunoise.) Boil the vegetables, slice them, and stamp them into small rounds with a cutter. If savoury custard of various colours is used in addition to the vegetables, it must be cut in the same way. The soup then becomes Potac.e Pkin-, tanieke A la Koyale. Whenever savoury custard is added clarified stock should be used for the soup. The vegetables must he very thinly sliced before cutting them—literally wafer- like, both in size and thickness. Potage de Riz ala Japonaise. —Required : three pints of stock (No. 8), two ounces of Japanese rice, season- ing, two eggs, half a pint of milk, a chopped shalot, some thyme and pars- ley, a few drops of spice essence (as nutmeg, clove, &c.), and some crushed vermicelli. Cost, about 7d. First wash the rice, bring it to the boil in cold water, then drain it, and add the milk, butter, seasoning, the chopped parsley and other herbs, &c., to flavour pleasantly; cover, and cook for an hour or so, then heat in the egg, and take from the fire. Pour it out, and spread it evenly over a flat dish to make a layer half an inch deep; then leave until cold, and stamp it out in rounds or ovals; brush them over with a beaten-up raw egg, then roll them in crushed vermicelli, and fry a golden brown in hot fat; drain, and put them into the hot stock just before serving. After cutting out the rice shapes, gather up the remnants and form into a cake; fry, and servo separately with meat of any kind. This soup is nicer if slightly thick- ened with corn-flour, and a morsel of glaze or extract of meat improves it. If liked, stock No. 6 or 7 can be used. Potage S ante.—Required: a gallon of weak stock, or water from boiled meat, a pound or more of mixed fresh vegetables, a bunch of parsley and some dried mint, salt and pepper, two ounces each of dripping, lean bacon, chestnut-flour, lentil-flour, and fine oatmeal, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Make the fat hot, cut up the bacon,-63 STOCKS AND SOUPS. add the vegetables and herbs, all finely cut, and fry for a few minutes ; put in the stock, boil up, and skim, then cook until the vegetables are a completo pulp. Mix the oatmeal, &c., to a smooth paste with cold water, add a pint or so of the boiling stock, gradually, then pour it into the pan, and stir for a few minutes; boil for half an hour or more, and season to taste. In the soup tureen have some stale bread, crisped in the oven and broken up, pour- the hot soup over, and then serve. Before serving, take out the bunch of parsley and mint. This is a very cheap and nourishing soup, and will be liked by those who object to the flavour of pulse soups ■without other additions. A valuation of it is made with ground haricots or pea-meal instead of lentil-flour; and if any carrots used are grated instead of being cut up with the rest, a very much better soup is the result. Potato Soup (Superior).—If made just as directed, few people would imagine that this soup owed its flavour to such homely materials. It is very excellent and economical. Re- quired : the water fiom a boiled fowl or rabbit, one pound of potatoes, two or three shalots, a few stalks of celery, a bunch of herbs, one egg, one pint of milk, two ounces of corn-flour, salt, and a teaspoonful or so of mignonette pepper, and a small slice of lean bacon. Cost, about 9d. Put in a clean pan the meat liquor and the bones of the fowl or rabbit, with a little salt; boil it for a few hours until reduced to three pints, or rather leas, skim it, and strain care- fully. Put in a clean small pan the bacon, herbs, pepper, celery, and sha- lots ; sweat them without browning, pour over them about half a pint of the meat liquor, and boil for an hour, then press the heTbs, &c., well, and strain the liqnor to the first lot. Boil the corn-flour and milk, beat in the egg, then put the. potatoes (previously cooked by baking in their skins) into a large bowl, mash them well, add tho milk, &c., then the stock, very gradually. Re-heat, and season to taste. The potatoes should be weighed after peeling. The soup will be much nicer if a potato masher or coarse sieve is used, the potatoes being passed through, and allowed to fall lightly into the tureen; then they only want careful mixing with the liquids. Puree de Haricots Verts.— Required : a pint of dried green hari- cots, five pints of stock (No. 1), one pint of milk, two ounces of butter, two ounces of corn-flour, a bunch of herbs, enough mixed vegetables when sliced to fill a teacup, seasoning to taste. Cost, about Is. Soak the beans for twenty-four hours, put them on to boil in the stock, sweat the herbs and vegetables in the butter, add to the rest, and boil for several hours; then sieve the puree, put it back in the pan with the milk and arrowroot, previously boiled to- gether, season to taste, and serve with croutons. If the water used for soaking the beans be first boiled and left until cold, they will be improved, or a pinch of bicarbonate of soda may be boiled with them. Vegetable stock or water may bo used for this, and a handful of spinach will improve both colour and flavour. Puree de Legumes d la Chicago.—Required : one pint each of tomato pulp'(fresh or canned), stock (No. 1 or 2), anil milk, and half a pint of cream, one small cucumber, one onion, salt and pepper, a small vege- table-marrow, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Cost, about Is. 9d. Peel tho cucumber and marrow, add the stock, onion, and tomatoes, and boil to a pulp; pass through a sieve, and return it to the pan ; add tho milk and cream, separately boiled, then season rather highly with salt and pepper, and .stir in the lemon-juico off the fire. Cut some small fancy shapes from thin slices of stale bread, fry them a delicato brown, and add to tho puree. This is un American recipe.Universal cookeBy book. 64 If tomato pulp is used it may be tbe French pulp, sold in tins, or some ripe tomatoes can be used. If tinned toma- toes of the usual kind are taken for it, the pulp must be measured after any superfluous liquor has been strained off. If a thicker soup is preferred, the milk or stock can be slightly reduced, or the whole can be thickened with two ounces of corn-flour or some pounded “cracker” crumbs. Puree de Legumes en Mulli- gatawny.— Required : three pints of stock (No. 11), vegetables as under- mentioned, enough to fill a quart measure, curry-paste, two ounces of rice-flour, lemon-juice, cocoa-nut, a bunch of herbs, seasoning, two ounces of butter, and some boiled rice. Cost, about Is. 2d. Get together celery, turnip, carrot, parsnip, onion or leek, vegetable-mar- row, artichokes, in fact, as great a variety as possible ; a bunch of water- cress, a small lettuce, or some sorrel, will improve the soup. Wash and prepare the vegetables, slice them into a pan with the butter, and cook for twenty minutes; add the stock, and curry-paste, about a tablespoonful, with the same measuro of grated cocoa-nut and lemon-j uice; simmer slowly for an hour or longer, then stir in the rice- flour mixed with cold stock, and boil for twenty minutes more. Pass all through a sieve, re-boil it, and add salt to taste, with a little pepper, if not enough. It may bo too thick, so much depends upon the kind of vege- tables used ; in that case dilute with more stock. The herbs for this should consist of a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, a sprig of tarragon and chervil, and a little celery seed, all tied in muslin. This is at'egetavian recipe. For meat eaters stock No. 4 can be substituted, and clarified fat used instead of butter. The soup must be skimmed during the boiling. With the rice, servo also some lemons cut into quarters. Pur6e de Marrons.—Required: fifty chestnuts, four ounces of butter, three pints of stock (No. 9), three gills of cream, salt and peppercorns, a small piece of mace, a few drops of lemon- juice. Cost, about Is. 9d. Slit the outer skin of the nuts, and boil them in water until the inner brown skin will come off easily; then lay them in a pan with the butter, and sweat them for twenty minutes : they must not become brown; add the stock, and simmer carefully until the nuts have become pulpy, then pass through a hair sieve : the finer it is the nicer the soup; re-heat it with the cream, season to taste, and serve with croutons. Add the lemon-j uice last of all. For a cheaper soup, use half the quantity of chestnuts and butter, and milk instead of cream. Stock No. 10 can then be substituted. Thickening of flour, rice-flour, or corn-flour, must be added to make up for the deficiency of nuts. Fine sago or crushed tapioca is also a suitable thickening for this and similar soups. Pur6e of Marrow.—Required: two or three young marrows, salt and pepper, a bay-leaf, an onion or two, a stalk or two of celery—the best part— one ounce of butter, one pint of milk, stock (No. 10), one gill of cream. Cost, about Is. Peel tbe marrow thinly, cut it up, and put into a clean pan with the butter and other vegetables and a littlo stock, barely enough to cover, with a littlo salt, and some white peppercorns and a bay-leaf tied in a bit of muslin. Boil to a pulp, then take out the spices and mash or sieve the vegetables. Put back into the pan, with the milk and cream separately boiled, and add moro stock, hot, to bring the whole to the required consistency, say, of very thick cream or thin custard. When it boils up, it is ready to serve. A slight thickening of com - flour improves this. For a vegetarian soup, use water in place of stock, increase the milk, and add an egg, if liked. Servo croutons or toasted bread with it.STOCKS AND SOUPS. 65 Puree of Marrow (a very quick way).—Cut up some marrows into quarters, take out the seeds, and put them unpeeled into a potato-steamer, and steam until soft; then take oil the peel, put the marrows in a large bowl, and mash them to a pulp; add boiling milk, salt and pepper, and a little white stock ; boil up and serve. If liked, thicken as before. Only very young marrows will do for this. Flavour with celery salt. Puree of Peas (Dried).—Re- quired : one pint of dried green peas, three quarts of stock (No. 1), a little colouring, salt and pepper, a large bunch of herbs, some vegetables (see Lentil Soup), and three ounces of potato-flour. Cost, about Gd. Wash the peas, and soak them all night in cold water; if hard, it should be boiled, and left until cold. Put them on with the cold stock, bring to the boil, then add a pinch only of bicarbonate of soda, the herbs, and vegetables cleaned and sliced; boil until quite soft, then rub all through a wire sieve: put it hack in the pan, with salt and pepper to taste, and add the potato-flour, previously mixed with half a pint of cold stock. Bring to the boil again, and in fifteen minutes serve the soup with fried bread cut into dice. Add the colouring last thing; a few drops will suffice. “Ve- getable green” (liquid or paste) is quite harmless, or boil a spinach-leaf with the peas to give colour. To convert this into a vegetarian soup use water in place of stock. It is necessary to buy the very best peas for this; those known as “ mar- rowfats ” are reliable. Split green peas can also be bought; they cook in less time than whole ones. A pinch of white sugar improves, and if the flavour is liked, mint may be used instead of mixed heTbs for flavouring. The stock in which a piece of fresh pork has been boiled may be freed from fat, and used for the above. Htock from salted meats is unsuit- able. Rabbit Soup (White).—Be, quired: a small rabbit, a few slices of onion or shalot, turnip, and celery, a gill of cream, stock No. 9, some white peppercorns and salt, a sprig of lemon thyme, and some arrowroot for thickening. Cost, about 2s. Wash the rabbit well (put away the head, neck, liver, and kidneys), pour cold water over it, and just bring to the boil; then throw away the water, and add the stock, vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns. Stir until it boils, skim well, and simmer gently until tender; then take the meat from the bones and chop it finely, or moisten it with stock and rub through a sieve; put back the bones, &c., and boil for an hour or two longer; then strain, and add the meat, with more stock to make up the quantity to three pints ; stir in arrowroot enough to make the soup as thick as good cream; season delicately with a drop or two of es- sence of mace or nutmeg; add the cream, previously warmed, and serve at once. Rice Soup, Andalusian.—See recipe for Bice, Andalusian. Take as much of this as may be required, and add as much of the same kind of stock that was used at first us will reduce it to the proper consist- ence. Most people will prefer the greater portion of the fat removed by careful skimming. Any stock, brown or white, may be used. It should be served very hot. Rice Soup, Plain (Vege- tarian).—Take some plainly-boiled rice; add a little hot vegetarian stock of any sort, and about the same mea- sure of hot milk, about a pint of liquid to two or three tablespoon fills of rice. Bring to the boil, add a little salt and pepper, then shake in some dry grated cheese. Shake the pan, but do not stir, and servo with toast or fried bread. This is cheap, tasty, and digestible. Rice Soup, Ricli.—Take any sort of good white stock, and put in it somo well-washed and blanched66 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rice, in the proportion of two ounces to each pint. Add any white vege- tables in season to flavour and thicken; a small mushroom, with a morsel of leek or shalot, or a turnip or two, or some celery or vegetable marrow may he used. Add a hay-leaf, and boil until all can he sieved, then add suffi- cient boiling cream (or half milk) to bring it to the desired consistence. Various additions may be made to this ; some small egg balls, or dice- shaped croutons (see Garnishes) are suitable; or grated cheese may be served with it; while for a first-rate soup little white quenelles are excel- lent. (See Chicken or Veal Quen- elles, in Hot Entrees.) Scotch Broth.—For this there are many recipes, but it has been said that a true Scot laughs at their pre- cision ; for, given harley and water, whatever vegetables are to be had are chopped up and thrown into the family broth pot-—cabbage, carrots, onions, leeks, turnips, green peas, and beans. There could not be a more convenient and compendious form of food; there is scope for endless variation. Here all the valuable constituents of vege- tables are retained and made the most of. Sometimes a carrot is grated, and added to the soup half an hour or so before serving. If mutton broth forms the basis, and the soup is made very thick with vegetables, it differs but little from Hotch Potch, save that in the latter case meat is served in the broth. Sheep’s Head Broth.—After washing and soaking the head, split it, and take out the brains. Required in addition: any suitable vegetables, a gallon of water, three ounces each of broken rice and pearl barley, and seasoning to taste. Cost, about Is. 2d. Bring the head and cold water to the boil, with a little salt; skim well, then put in the vegetables and a bunch of parsley, and the rice and barley, previously washed and soaked; boil until perfectly tender, then serve the head separately, and if liked, a portion of the vegetables, some of which'can be cut up and served in the broth. This is very plain. For a better broth, use less water, and, if liked, make some Brain Cakes, and put into the broth; otherwise, the brains may be used for sauce, and served with the head and tongue. Sometimes the brains are used for thickening the broth. They are cleared from all fibre, and boiled for a few minutes in the liquid, then beaten up with a little ketchup and vinegar and some chopped parsley, the hot broth being added gradually. Oatmeal can be used for this instead of rice and barley, or a mixture of the three. It is very suitable for children’s dinners. Sheep’s Head Soup.—This is a very good soup. Required: a sheep’s head, a small slice of ham, some herbs and vegetables, seasoning, and colour- ing. Cost, about Is. 3d. Prepare the head by washing and soaking, take out the brains, and pro- ceed as for Sheep’s Head Broth. Boil until the meat falls from the bones, then cut up the best pieces into neat squares, also the tongue (put bones, skin of tongue, and odds-and-ends of meat into the stock-pot), and make some brain cakes (q.v. in Made Dishes) from the brains; add a little brown roux and seasoning to taste, with a spoonful of ketchup or store sauce; boil up and skim, and put in the meat, &c., a few minutes before serving. For plain soup, reserve the tongue and brains for a separate dish, and serve rice, macaroni, or anything simi- lar, in the soup. Sometimes tiny dumplings, plain or savoury, are added to it. Spinach Soup.—Required: two pints of stock (Ko. 8), a dozen and a half of small spinach-balls (q.v. in Garnishes), salt and pepper, and a little brown roux or other thickening. Cost, about 8d. Make the stock hot; season and thicken it a little; if no brown roux, uso corn-flour or brownod flour, about67 STOCKS ANb SOl’t'S. an ounce; re-boil and skim, and just before serving add the spinach-balls. Spinach and Egg Soup.— Proceed as above, but put in some egg balls (q.v. in Garnishes), and, in addition, the -whites of two eggs, boiled hard, cut into tiny dice, or long, thin shreds. This is a very effective soup. Split Peas, Boiling of, for Sonps.—It will be noticed that some samples boil in a comparatively short time, and others retain their original form, no matter how long they are cooked. Those that fall freely into pulp should of course be chosen, and before laying in any quantity a few ^samples should be tried. This property of boil- ing depends upon the soil, &c.; beans and all leguminous plants are affected in like manner by the soil, from which certain matters are absorbed productive of the hardness complained of. A small quantity of borax or carbonate of soda will counteract it to a great extent. Soup a la Bonne Femme.— Required: one quart of stock (No. 9), half a dozen spring onions, a small cucumber, a tender lettuce—all outer parts to be removed—a good bunch of sorrel, a sprig of parsley and chervil, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper, two eggs, one ounce of butter, and a gill of cream. Cost, about Is. 4d. First wash the lettuce and sorrel, dry them, and cut into shreds; wash and mince the onions, put them on with the butter to sweat, add the cucumber, peeled, sliced, and cut into dice; in five or ten minutes add the rest of the materials (eggs, cream, and vinegar excepted); boil slowly until tender, but not reduced to pulp; then beat up the eggs and cream, add the soup, and beat well; return it to the fire for a minute or two, stirring well—it must not quite reach boiling point—then put in the vinegar, off the fire, and serve with fried bread cut into strips; or a French roll may be sliced and cut up, then dried in a slow oven to a pale brown. This was the old-fashioned adjunct to this soup, but the fried bread is usually met with, and generally preferred. This can be varied in many ways. Spinach is a suitable addition; tho cucumber may be reduced, and the parsley and chervil can either be shredded with the rest or put in in little sprigs. If fresh tarragon is used, the leaves must be finely shredded, then the vinegar can be omitted. Soup a la Mode. —Required : two pounds of shin of beef, one calf’s foot, two ounces of pearl barley, two ounces of crushed tapioca, salt, as much celery-seed as will cover a threepenny- piece, an onion stuck with two cloves, a teaspoonful of black peppercorns, a tablespoonful each of mushroom ketchup and brown vinegar, and five pints of cold water. Cost, about 2s. Take out the bone from the meat, remove the marrow, and put the bone into a large pan, with the meat tied in a nice shape with tape, the foot cleansed and jointed, and all the other in- gredients, except the tapioca and salt; bring to the boil, skim well, and then add a little of the salt; boil gently for two hours (or, rather, simmer; the object is to furnish both soup and meat from this) or longer. Twenty minutes before serving shake in tho tapioca, and stir, after it is added, very frequently; put in salt to taste, and pour into a hot soup tureen. Reserve a little of the soup, and continue the cooking of the meat and foot for another quarter of an hour, then thicken the gravy with brown roux; dish the meat in the centre, the foot round it, and tho gravy poured over. For a better soup, use stock No. 2 instead of water. For a cheaper soup, any ordinary thickening does in place of the French tapioca. Soup with Macedoines.—Re- quired : a tin of macedoines, stock No. 1 a quart or more, seasoning to taste, a teaspoonful of extract of meat, and half an ounce of French sheet gelatine, or a morsel of glaze. Cost, about Is. Put the stock into a Dan, turn into itUNIVERSAL cookery BOON. <58 the macedoines, with their liquor, a tiny lump of sugar, the extract of meat, and the glaze or gelatine. Bring to the boil, and as soon as the gelatine or glaze is thoroughly melted it is ready to serve. This recipe shows how a poor stock may be very quickly converted into good soup. If preferred thicker, add an ounce of arrowroot or corn-flour. If good stock is available, leave out the glaze. Soup, Clear, with Mace doines.—In this case the vegetables should be drained from the liquor, then rinsed in hot water, and put into the clear soup. Stock No. 6 or 7 is suitable. It should be flavoured and clarified in the usual way. The liquor in the tin contains a good deal of flavour, and should be used in vegetable soups or stews, &c. Cost of macedoines, about 9d. per pint tin. Add a teaspoonful of wine, if liked. Soup Piquant. — This is a winter soup, one of the best of the many maigre soups. Required : three pints of stock (No. 11), three ounces of potato-flour, one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of scraped horse-radish, the same of chutnee and curry paste, a few drops of tarragon vinegar and lemon-juice, a saltspoonful of French mustard, and a little browning salt. Cost, about 8d. An hour or two before using put into a basin the curry and all the other condiments, mixing well and covering. A pinch of sugar should also be added. Then bring the stock to the boil; melt the butter in another pan, mix the potato-flour with cold stock, add to the butter, and boil up, then pour the whole into the stock. Stir in the contents of the basin, first passed through a sieve, add more salt to taste, and the browning, and serve very hot. In passing the condiments through the sieve they should be moistened first with a little of the hot stock, and the mixture must all be carefully scraped from under the sieve, or it will be wasted, and the soup will suffer in flavour. If not convenient to mix them beforehand, they may be put straight into the soup, but a larger quantity will be needed, and the flavour is not so good. ' A small quantity of lemon pickle is an excellent addition. Spring Soup).—Prepare the vege- tables as for Julienne, but instead of cooking them first in butter, put them straight into water, if for clear soups, and boil until tender; or they may be parboiled and finished in stock if not required to be clarified. (See Bhunoisb Sour, Bkown.) Shredded lettuce or young cabbage can be used with other vegetables for this. Vegetables may bo cut in other than strips for spring soups, but strictly this is not correct, (iSec also Consomm6 Jardiniere,Nivek- NA18B and PoTAGE PlUNTANIEltE.) Succotash Soup.—Succotash isan American preparation, sold in tins. It consists of beans of various kinds, and com, cooked ready for serving. It is generally served as a vegetable (direc- tions will be found on the tins), but by adding an increased quantity of milk or vegetable stock to make it the required consistency it will furnish a very delicious soup. It is also highly nourishing and cheap. Cost, about a shilling per tin. Some tomatoes may be used with the succotash, if liked, or for a plain soup some mashed potatoes are a good addition. There are many combina- tions—for instance, cooked haricots or some fresh beans ; broad beans, if young and tender, are a very suitable addi- tion, and barley or any other cereal can be used with succotash—in fact, some such food makes it still more acceptable to some English palates. Sweethi’ead Soup.—Required: a calf’s sweetbread, a quart of the liquor from veal tendons (see the Index), a pint of milk and cream mixed, somo veal forcemeat, seasoning, &c.,as below. Cost, about 4s. Will vary according to the time of year.STOCKS AND SOUPS. 69 Prepare a sweetbread by blanching, boiling, trimming, and pressing until cold (see recipes for Sweetiikeads). Make the stock hot ; aftor careful skimming, add salt, a drop of celery vinegar, or a pinch of celery salt, a drop of tarragon vinegar, and a pinch of soluble cayenne pepper. Make some balls from the forcemeat the size of a marble, and cut the sweetbread into dice ; brush them over with beaten white of egg, take them up on the point of a skewer, and drop them into the soup a minute before serving. Mix the milk with half an ounce of arrowroot, add the cream, bring to the boil, and blend very thoroughly with the soup, then serve at once. Xote.—Make the forcemeat without suet, using butter instead, and before adding the balls to the soup, boil them first in stock for twenty minutes, and let them become cold. This is a very rich and delicious soup. If preferred more highly flavoured, boil a slice of carrot, a morsel of onion scalded, and sprig of parsley in the stock for a few minutes. A tiny strip of ham, half an ounce or so, may be put in with them. Tapioca Cream Soup. — Re- quirea : a quart of milk, a pint of stock N o. 9), three ounces of crushed tapioca, a gill of cream, salt, pepper, and a drop or two of essence of nutmeg, three eggs, and vegetables as under- mentioned. Cost, about Is. 4d. Put into a muslin bag a tablespoon- ful each of celery and Spanish onion, very finely chopped, the same measure of grated carrot, and a teaspoonful of grated cocoa-nut, a saltspoorfful of mignonette pepper, and a small bunch of herbs. Tie up the bag, put it in the stock, boil up, and just keep it sim- mering for half an hour, then remove the bag, giving it a good squeeze. This will colour the stock, and give it a rich appearance. Now sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring well; it will take twenty minutes to boil. Beat the yolks of the eggs up, heat the milk and cream in a bain-marie, and mix it with the eggs, then add the stock very gradu- ally, first using a spoonful below boiling point. Return the whole to the pan, stir until it is on the point of boiling, then serve. Tapioca Cream Soup (Plain). —Use stock No. 11 ; omit the eggs and half the cream. Increase the quantity of tapioca by another ounce. This is very good soup maigre. Fish soup of this kind, made from plain fish stock, is suitable for Lenten fare. The cocoa- nut may be omitted. Tinned Soups.—A great variety of soups may now be had in tins, and for the most part they are very good. Those made by the leading firms average from eightpence to a shilling for a pint tin, and some will bear an equal measure of stock, and in some cases more, though there is a tendency on the part of the makers to over-rate their strength. The majority of them will bear a little extra seasoning and flavouring, and to some a little added thickening and a spoonful of wine are undoubtedly very great improvements. Among others, we may mention cressy, hare, game, giblet, grouse, julienne, kidney, tomato, vegetable, hotch-potch, mutton broth, green pea, mock turtle, real turtle, mulligatawny, venison, vermicelli, and Palestine. There are several sorts of Aus- tralian soups also in tins, and much lower in price than the above mentioned; the quality is not so good, but they are useful in emer- gencies. As a rule, they will be more satisfactory if sieved, the meat being stringy, and for adding to a good bone stock or vegetable stock they are by no moans to be despised. Tho same caution applies to these ns to other tinned meats—as soon as opened, whether the contents of tho tin be re- quired or not, empty it into an earthen vessel at once. Never leave tho moat standing in tho tin, Tomato Curry Soup.—This is very delicious and inexpensive. Re- quired : a quart tin of tomatoes, one pintUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, 70 of stock (No. 1 or 2), one apple, one onion, half an ounce of curry-powder, a teaspoonful of curry-paste, the juice of half a lemon, or a teaspoonful of preserved tamarinds, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, and hay-leaf), salt, pepper, a slice of bacon (lean) or ham, thickening. Cost, about Is. 3d. Cut up the bacon, melt it in the saucepan, add the herbs, sliced onion, and apple. The latter should not be sweet, a sour one is best. Put in the curry-powder and paste, add a little tomato liquor from the tin, then the rest gradually. Cover and cook for half an hour or more, then pass through a sieve; put back into tho pan, with more seasoning if required (a little salt should be put in at first), tho lemon-juice, and half an ounce of rice-flour mixed with cold stock. Boil up and skim, and serve with a plate of boiled rico sprinkled with a few saffron shreds. For a rich soup of this sort use stock No. 7, and add a teaspoonful of extract of meat or half an ounce of glaze, using all curry or mulli- gatawny paste in place of the curry- powder. Tomato Puree.—Required : one pound of tomatoes, fully ripe, and of good colour—see that they are not bruised or over-ripe—one carrot, a bunch of herbs, seasoning, a quart of stock (No. 4), an ounce and a half each of butter and corn-flour, a few drops of white vinegar or lemon-juice. Cost, about Is. Break tho tomatoes into an enamelled stew-pan with the butter, vinegar, herbs, a little salt, a jinch of castor sugar, and half a dozen peppercorns. Wash and scrape tho carrot, and grate the outer red part; put it with the rest, cover, and cook for half an hour; then add the stock, boil for half an hour more, and pass through a hair sieve. Mix tho corn-flour with cold stock to a paste, add it to the soup, and re-boil. If not a good colour, put in a few drops of carmine or cochineal colouring. Tomato Soup, Australian.— This is very cheap and quickly made. Required: a quart tin of tomatoes, tho same measure of boiling water, a two- pound tin of Australian mutton, a pound of potatoes, salt, pepper, and a little browning. Cost, about Is. 9d. Take all the fat from the meat, and put it aside (it is not wanted for the soup). Put the tomatoes and boiling water in a saucepan, take out the skins of the tomatoes, and add the potatoes, sliced thinly; season, and boil gently for an hour, or until the potatoes are a pulp; then cut up the meat, put it in the soup, with all the jelly from the tin, and let it stand for a few minutes to become heated, but do not boil again. This is a substantial dinner for children. It may be made thinner if required, and for a better soup uso stock No. 1 or 2. Veal Soup (German).—Tako the meat liquor from neck or breast of veal that has been boiled for table.- Boil it until reduced to half, add salt, and skim it well, add some sago or rice, previously cooked, and a quarter of an hour before serving, asparagus, cauliflower, or scorzonera, cooked, should be added. In the tureen beat up the yolks of two eggs with a gill of hot milk for each quart of soup ; add the hot soup slowly, beating well, then serve at once. This is very delicate and nourishing. For a more savoury soup, put in chopped parsley and some minced chives with a little pounded mace, with the other vegetables. Mace must, however, always be very cautiously used; essence of mace is useful. Vegetable Soup with Herbs. —Required: two ounces of butter, a gill of cream, some sorrel, a lettuce, salt and pepper, tarragon and chervil, an ounce and a half of fine sago and a pint and a half of the water from haricot beans (preferably the green flageolets). Cost, about 8d. Wash the sorrel, hike out coarse fibres, and tear it into shreds, enoughSTOCKS AND SOUPS. 71 to fill a large breakfast-cup ; put it in a pan with the butter and the let- tuce, washed and shredded, and cook for a few minutes, then add the bean water; bring to the boil, sprinkle in the sago, and boil until it is done. The French sago or crushed tapioca is done in twenty minutes. Season to taste, stir in the cream, and serve in a very hot tureen. This is a little known soup in this country; it is considered a very good blood purifier. Nettle- tops or dandelion-leaves can be used with or instead of sorrel, and stock No. 11 can take the place of water. White Soup.—This is simple and cheap, and quickly made. Required: one pound each of potatoes, celery, and onions, one pint of milk, two pints of water, salt and pepper, coralline or rizine to thicken. Cost, about 8d. Parboil and slice the potatoes. Scald and slice the onions. Wash the celery, and cut it up very small. Put them all into a pan with the water, boiling, and the seasoning, skim, and simmer until thick and pulpy, then add the milk, and sprinkle in an ounce or two of rizine or coralline, these are quickly cooked; stir for a few minntes, then dilute with a little more hot water; boil again for a short time, and serve. White Soup (Rich).—Required: one quart of stock (No. 9), one pint of milk and cream mixed, three ounces of French tapioca or sago, a few celery stalks and a small onion, salt and pepper, a few ounces of ham, and some croutons. Cost, about Is. 3d. Make the stock hot, add the ham and vegetables, with a few white peppercorns or some mignonette pep- per, and a pinch of salt; boil until reduced a fourth, then add the tapioca, stirring until it is transparent; boil tho milk and cream, add them to the soup, after freeing it from the ham, vegetables, and spice (they may bo loosely tied in muslin); season, and serve. With the croutons, hand round some grated cheese. The ham can go in the stock-pot, as only a little of the goodness will be drawn out in the above. Wines for Soups.—See Wines for Gravies and Sauces, p. 84. Winter Soup (Cheap).— Re- quired : one pound each of whole Egyptian lentils, split peas, coarse oatmeal, crushed wheat, and pearl barley, half a pound of Indian meal and half a pound of broken rice, two large carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, three or four leeks and one pound of onions, a large bunch of parsley, a teaspoonful of celery-seed, salt and pepper, an ounce of mixed pepper- corns, allspice, and cloves, and six gallons of cold water. An ounce of brown sugar and four ounces of drip- ping are a great improvement. Cost, about 2s. Wash the lentils and peas, soak them with the barley aU night in the cold water; put them on to boil, add the sugar and dripping, bring to boil- ing point very slowly, skimming often; then add the vegetables in slices (herbs, spices, celery-seed, and parsley, all tied in muslin), the rice well washed, and the oatmeal. Boil for three hours or more, until pulpy, then mix the Indian meal with a little more cold water, add it to the soup, and boil for forty minutes longer. Some of the salt may be put in with tho meal, the rest is to be added just before serving; none should be put in at first; take out the spice- bag, and serve. The wheat should go in an hour and a half before the Boup is served. Coarse whole-meal will do instead. This is excellent for soup-kitchens, cheap dinners, &c.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 72 FISH SOUPS. Fish soups are but little known and seldom met with except at the tables of the well-to-do and among fisher-folk; but they furnish a most wholesome and nutritious form of food, and a cheap one, where fish is plentiful; <tare is needed in their preparation, and the most gelatinous fish should always be employed for the basis ; certain kinds of oily fish, viz., mackerel, herrings, and rich fish like salmon, should not be chosen. Generally speaking, fish soups are found to agree better when vegetables are served in them. In our list of fish stocks, the fish named are to be regarded as suggestive, by no means as exhaustive. The delicate kinds of white fish, as soles, plaice, turbot, and the like, will agree best with the majority; but when fish is to be had in abundance almost every sort may be utilised. To all brown fish soups a little sage is a good addition, and bread should be eaten with most of the rich varieties. Bisques are soups made from lobster, crab, cray-fish, &e. Souchets are given under Fish in a subsequent chapter, as fish souchet is not a soup in the strict sense of the word, though soup-like in appearance; and it is often served at the commencement of a dinner or luncheon, thus taking the place of soup and fish, and shortening the meal by a course; or at more elaborate meals sometimes a soup is served also; or a second dish of fish of a richer kind is served in addition to the souchet. Bisque D’Ecrevisses (Cray- fish Soup).—Required: fifty small cray- fish, four ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of the crumb of a French roll, four ouncos of rice, two anchovies, an onion stuck with a couple of cloves, a bay-leaf, about a dessertspoonful of salt and half as much mignonette pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and a glass of light wine. Cost of fish, un- certain. Take out the gut from the centre fin of the tail, shell the fish, and keep the tails whole. Pound the shells with anchovies, bread-crumbs, and butter; put them on to boil with some stock (about two quarts of No. 14 or 15), and the rice, well washed ; add the onions and seasoning, and boil very gently for two hours; then pound the meat, re- serving the tails, add it, and cook for a few minutes, then rub all through a sieve. Return it to tho pan, re-heat it, hut do not boil again; put in the tails and wine, cover, and in five to ten minutes serve the soup with croutons or sippets any shape preferred, This is excellent, both in flavour and colour. For a more economical soup, or if tho supply of cray-fish runs short, add a little lobster meat, or tho shell of a lobster, or some lobster coral or “ butter.” The wine can he decreased or omitted, and a plainer stock used; or water, if the shell of a lobster is used, will answer. See that the cray-fish arc freshly- boiled ones. A hundred prawns may be substituted. Bouille a Baisse, or Bouilla- baisse.—Any kind of fish may be used for this dish : gurnard, haddock, whiting, mackerel, carp, rod and grey mullet, soles, plaice, or lobsters, all do admirably for a bouillabaisse. Chop two onions and put them with a piece of butter in a stew-pan, and let them brown without burning, then arrange the fish (which has been previously cut into small pieces) in the pan, allowing half a pound of fish for each person, Add a small quantity of fhoSTOCKS AND SOUPS. 73 best olive-oil, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, two or three tomatoes or a little tomato sauce, as much powdered saffron as will go on the point of a table-knife, and. lastly, a glass of white wine or Madeira. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from ten to fifteen minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. When ready to servo throw in a handful of chopped parsley, This quantity of flavouring is intended for six pounds of fish. On the Conti- nent it is usually sent to table in two separate dishes—that is to say, the fish in one, and the sauce in a small deep dish; but we think the whole would look better served in a deep entree dish. Bouillabaisse (true Marsoillaiso fashion) should, according to Sir Henry Thompson, receive the addition of a portion of conger eel and a couple of dozen mussels, to four pounds of whit- ing, sole, red mullet, and fresh had- dock. Two hay-leaves, two cloves, parsley, thyme, slices of lemon, the zest of a Seville orange, salt, pepper, pimento, saffron, a clove of garlic, and two red capsicums, are to he tied in a coarse net bag, and put in with the fish and six tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil and three pints of water. Half an hour’s boiling for all except the whiting is required ; toasted bread in slices may be served apart or put in the soup tureen. Two or three glasses of French wine should he added, and, almost needless to say, the fish is to be cleansed with great nicety; and al- though it is usual to bone and cut it up first, we think the bones should be pint in for the sake of their flavour. They can be tied up in the bag, and removed with the rest. Clam Soup.—Wash the clams, and just cover them with boiling water; when the shells open, after a little boiling, take the clams from the shells, and save all the liquor; chop the fish, and strain the liquor; put both together in a pan with pepper, boil for a quarter of an hour, then thicken a little with white roux or flour and butter. Sometimes milk or water is added to the fish liquor, and a bit of onion used for flavouring. Toasted bread is often cut up and put in the tureen. For rich clam soups the yolks of eggs are used, with a spoonful or two of cream. Cost of clams, uncertain. Clam Soup, American.—Boil the juice of the clams, after careful straining, season with salt, cayenne, and strained lemon-juice, and, if liked, a grate or two of nutmeg; enrich with drawn butter and a spoonful of cream, and thicken with cracker-crumbs. The clams are to be cut up small, and boiled for half an hour, the lemon- juice and cream being added at the moment of serving. Conger Eel Soup.—Required : three pounds of conger eel, three quarts of water, a carrot, an onion, a good bunch of herbs, some whole spices (mixed, about a teaspoonful), salt, vegetables to serve in the soup, and thickening. Cost, about Is. 4d. Only the head and tail ends are re- quired for this (the middles of the fish can be kept for other dishes). Wash them and put them on to boil in the water with the spices and a little salt; add the vegetables, lightly fried, with the herbs, and boil slowly, with fre- quent skimming, for about three hours. Then strain the soup, put in some cooked green peas or any other vege- tables (about half a pint will do), and flavour with catsup or store sauce, and more salt to taste. Thicken a little with browned flour, or roux if liked ; but this is often served unthickened. Conger Eel Soup (White). Do not fry the vegetables, use white peppercorns instead of mixed spices, and rvhite roux or flour to thicken. Add some boiled milk just before serv. ing, and omit tho peas, using instead cooked white vegetables of any kind. A further improvement to this is effected by putting in a few pieces of tho middle of the eel; they should bo cooked with the rest, and removed as74 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Boon as tender, then added just before serving. Crab Soup (very good and eco- nomical).—Required: a freshly-boiled crab, a quart of milk, a quart of fish- stock, seasoning, rice, butter, &c. Cost, about Is. 2d. First wash half a pound of rice very carefully; put it on to boil in the milk, with a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper, and one ounce, or rather more, of fresh butter; when perfectly soft, mix with it all tho yellow meat or pith from the body of the crab, and the stock (No. 14). Rub all through a hair sieve, and add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies or shrimps, and more seasoning; return it to tho pan, stir until it boils, then tear up the flesh from the claws of the crab with a couple of forks; put them in, and leave until heated through, but do not boil again. For this and many other pre- parations of crab, great care in its selection is very important. A small piece of stick cinnamon may be boiled with the rice when the flavour is not objected to : it is said to render crab easier of digestion. After washing the rice, put it to soak in a pint of fish-stock for a few hours, and put it on to boil with the stock in addition to the milk ; more stock should be added during the boiling, until another pint has been used. This makes a quart in addition to that used for the soup. For a richer crab soup, use two crabs and rather less rice ; other in- gredients as above named. Tish Mulligatawny. — Re- quired : two pounds of fish, two quarts of stock (No. 14), two onions, two leeks, two apples, one carrot, one turnip, two ounces of clarified fat, a large bunch of herbs, plenty of parsley, one ounce of curry-powder, one ounce of curry-paste, salt to taste, and thicken- ing. Cost, about 2s. 2d. Prepare the soup as for Fish Soup (Brown) ; put the bones and trim- mings in with the stock and' a little salt, boil up, and skim well. In a separate pan melt the fat, mince the vegetables, and grate the apple; .add the herbs, and fry for ten minutes; mix the curry-powder and paste with a little stock, stir to the boil, then add the whole to the first pan, and boil gently for an hour and a half. Have ready in the tureen some boiled rice, and the fish, separately cooked,* and cut into small squares; then strain.the soup on to them, or rub the soup through a sieve, and re-boil before adding it. Put in a few drops of lemon-juice. If preferred, the soup can be thickened with brown roux or browned flour, and the boiled rice handed separately -with cut lemons, quarters or slices. Mulligatawny-paste is rather milder than curry-paste, and is sometimes preferred. If the curry-powder is not very fresh add to it a pinch of pow- dered coriander-seed. Fish Soup (Brown). — Re- quired: three pints of stock (No. 14), a bunch of herbs, a teaspoonful each of French vinegar, tarragon vinegar, and mushroom ketchup, a pound and a half of fresh white fish, a teacupful of minced vegetables (as great a variety as convenient, green vegetables ex- cepted), two ounces of browned flour, two ounces of butter, seasoning t-o taste, and a small tomato. Cost, about Is. 3d. Wash the fish, remove the head, fins, &c., and put them into the stock with all tho other materials (flour and butter excepted). Boil down to a quart, then strain. Put the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and mix well; put in the strained soup by degrees, then the fish cut into squares of an inch or thereabouts. Cook until the fish is tender. For this any flat fish can be used, or fresh haddock, whiting, &c. The bones should be boiled with the trimmings. A mixture of sea and river fish may be used. * This may be boiled, steamed, baked, or fried ; the latter is the most savoury. It must not be bread-crumbed. (See Fish Fried Pi.mni.y.)STOCKS AND SOUPS. YD For a richer soup add,half an ounce of glaze and a glass of white wine when the fish is put in. Brown roux can be used instead of the flour and butter. When fish with a strong taste is used, it is well to lay it for a while in vinegar and water. This treatment modifies the muddy taste complained of in river fish. Fisherman's Soup.—Make a soup according to the following recipe, by which means the smallest fry may be utilised:—Take the fish caught in a day's angling—carp, dace, roach, perch, &c. Wash them in salt and water, and put them in a stew-pan, with a tomato, a leek, an onion, and a carrot sliced, a hunch of sweet herbs, and enough -water to cover them. When boiled to a pulp, strain, and put the liquor hack into the saucepan, with seasoning to taste, and a small quantity of rice or other grain for thickening. When this is cooked, put in some flavoured vinegar and a teaspoonful of soy or store sauce, and serve. If any of the fish are of good size they may bo filleted, the bones to be stewed down with the rest, and the fillets divided, and put in a short time before serving. Fish Soup a la Cardinal.— Make some stock by recipe No. 15; to a quart add the following : one ounce of white roux, one ounce of corn- flour mixed with a gill of milk and boiled, eighteen Lobster Quen-elles (y.r. under Fish), a tablespoonful of lobster butter, a few drops of colouring, seasoning, and the yolks of two eggs. Put the stock in a pan, add the roux, then the milk and arrowroot or corn- flour, boil up and skim; add salt, cayenne, a squeeze of lemon-juice, a few drops of carmine, and whon off the boil stir in the lobster butter. Put the raw yolk3 of eggs into a well- heated tureen, add the soup gradually, taking the u.sual precaution; put in tho quenelles and a tablespoonful of light wine. Serve crofltons with this, and a plate of boiled rice. Cost, about Is. 6d. Fish Soup a la Guildhall.— Required: the head of a small cod-fish, a quart of fish stock (No. 15), a gill of white wine, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf, a large onion, a ripe tomato, two ounces of butter, a tea- spoonful of essence of shrimps, one ounce of white roux, a dozen quenelles (see Fish, White, Quenelles of), and a quarter of a pint of freshly-shelled shrimps. Cost, about Is. lOd. Wash the head, put it on to boil with cold water to cover, and a little salt; bring to the boil and Bkim, then cook for two houi-8; strain the liquor, about half a pint, into a clean pan with the fish-stock, herbs, tomato, and a little salt; fry the onion brown in the butter, add it to the rest with some crushed peppercorns, and boil for half an hour, skimming very often ; stir in the roux, boil up, and skim again; put in the wine and anchovy essence, with salt to taste, a little soluble cayenne, and a few drops of lemon-juice, then strain the soup through a hair sieve, put in the shrimps and quenelles, and serve. For a clear soup, clarify in the usual way with eggs, add the shrimps and quenelles as above, but omit the roux, and put in a couple of ounces of cooked Italian paste, or macaroni in very short lengths. A few drops of carmine colouring should be put in the soup. Haddock Soup.—Required: a fresh haddock of two to three pounds in weight, seasoning, roux, herbs, bread-crumbs, bacon, a little cream, some raw eggs, and four ounces of boiled rice. Cost, about 2s. First wash the fish, and take tho flesh off in fillets ; put the heads, tails, bones, skin, fins, &c., on to boil with three quarts of cold water, a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and a few slices of carrot; add salt, boil gently, and remove the scum. Whon reduced to a pint and a half, strain tho liquid. With tho flesh of tbe fish pro- ceed as follows:—Scrape it finely, by laying it on a board, and with the pulp I thus obtained mix a slice of bacon,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 76 first minced and pounded with about three ounces of bread-crumbs soaked in fish-stock and squeezed dry; add salt, pepper, and powdered mixed herbs, with the yolks of a couple of eggs to bind the mixture, and an ounce of boiled rice. Form the whole into small balls or oval shapes, and dip them into the beaten whites of the eggs. To the soup add white roux and a tablespoonful or two of cream; boil it up, then put in the fish balls, and cook them for five minutes, adding the remaining portion of the rice at the same time. A few drops of anchovy essence, both in the soup and the fish balls, is a decided improvement. Haddock Soup, with Shrimps.—This recipe is for a soup made from the remains of a cooked fish ; after taking it from the bones and flaking it, there should be enough to fill a breakfast cup. Make stock from the bones and the shells of the shrimps (see Nos. 14 and 15), of which a quart will be required; after straining it into a clean sauce- pan, put in the flaked fish, with half the measure of picked shrimps, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, with any desired thickening (Liaisons, p. 35): boil up, and serve with dice-shaped croutons. Both to this and the foregoing soup a little white wine may be added with advantage, and other fish, as brill, plaice, turbot, soles, and whiting, may bo used just in the same way. If pos- sible, remove the fish from the bones while hot, it flakes more easily than if left until cold—that is, it is more easily taken from the bones while warm. Lobster and Prawn Soup.— Required: a fresh lobster, thirty or forty prawns, two quarts of stock (No. 15), from the shell of the lobster, and the heads and shells of the prawns flavoured with herbs and vegetables, cream, colouring, and thickening. Cost, uncertain. Make the stock, strain it, and skim well; put it in a saucepan with enough white roux to thicken—it should be like good cream. When well skimmed, put in the prawns and the white meat of the lobster shredded, the claws cut into small pieces, and salt, cayenne pepper, and a few drops of carmine. Cover, and leave for five minutes, then put in some lemon-juice and a few drops of anchovy essence, a gill of hot cream, and the lobster coral. Do not boil again. Lobster and Shrimp Soup may be made by using shrimps, in- creasing the proportion. If preferred, the soup may be sieved before adding the shrimps or prawns. Lobster and Rice Soup (Economical and good).—Required : a tin of lobster (best quality), three ounces of rice, one pint of milk, the same of water and stock No. 15, seasoning, &c. Cost, about Is. 4d. Wash the rice, and blanch it (tee Rice, to Blanch), put it into the water, and boil until soft; then add the stock and the lobster meat (claws excepted), cut into shreds, season to taste, put in a little anchovy essence, and rub all through a sieve; pound the claws with the butter and a few drops of anchovy essence and colouring, add the boiling milk by degrees, then the soup, also boiling; mix thoroughly, and serve at once. Oyster Soup.—Required : two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, three gills of milk, one gill of cream, a drop or two of essence of anchovies, twelve oysters. Cost, about 2s. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir until smooth; then the milk and cream, and stir until it boils. Boil the oyster liquor, 6kim it, season with the anchovy and a dust of cayenne; put in the oysters to “ plump,” but not to boil, or they would harden; then stir the contents of the two pans, and serve. The oysters may be cut up, but not bearded. This is an American recipe. Oyster Soup, Economical.— Required : a tin of oysters, a score of oysters, a pint of milk, seasoning, a77 STOCKS AJ?t> SOtJPS. little white roux, stock, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Cost, about 2s. 6d. First put the liquor from the tinned and fresh oysters into a small sauce- pan ; put in the oysters, and plump them; then set them aside, and rub the tinned oysters through a sieve, moistening them with the hot liquor. When all are through, add a little white stock, either “ second stock ” or made from veal (as No. 9), about half a pint; boil the milk, add to the rest, then boil up, and thicken with roux or flour and hutter, well blended. Put in about a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, or less, if it is very strong, add the oysters, and serve. Natives are not necessary; blue points answer for cooking. Oyster Soup, Rich. — Take three dozen oysters, beard them, and lit the beards boil in two pints of fish stock for twenty minutes. Pound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of fresh butter, a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence and lemon-juice. Strain the stock, stir the pounded mixture into it, add the oyster liquor, and simmer all together for a few minutes. Add more salt and pepper, if neces- sary, and a pinch of cayenne, together with the oysters and the yolks of two unboiled eggs which have been well beaten. The soup must not boil after the oysters and raw eggs are added ; it must be stirred by the side of the fire until it is thick and smooth, and then poured into a tuTeen, and served very hot. The soup may be thickened slightly with white roux or arrowroot mixed with milk or cream, and boiled up and skimmed be- fore the oysters are added. Any nice fresh fish of the white kind may bo used for the stock. Serve small croutons with the soup. Russian Fish Soup. — Tte- quired: some vegetables and herbs of the usual kinds for soups, fish, mixed varieties, and some stock or water, and seasoning. First boil down the vegetables in a little stock until it is well flavoured, then strain it, and add more to make up the quantity re- quired. Into this put any well-cleaned fish, such as pike, perch, or any ordi- nary white fish; some should be rich, as eels, to give the soup good body; to ’ a quart of stock about a pound of fish will bo wanted. When woll done, strain, and season to taste, and thicken a little with any of the usual white thickenings and a few ounces of sliced potatoes—about two ounces to a quart of soup. Where potatoes are objected to some potato-flour can be substituted. Serve cream with this; it should be handed separately. Skate Soup. — The bones of skate are so delicate and gristly that they can easily be converted to jelly; consequently, good nourishing soup may be made of this fish. Clean two pounds of skate, and hang it in the open air for a day; cut it into small neat fillets, and put the trimmings and head into a saucepan, with two quarts of fish-stock or water. Let it simmer gently for an hour, and carefully re- move the scum as it rises; then add an onion, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a few sticks of celery, and simmer all gently together till the liquor is re- duced to one quart; then strain it carefully. The soup may be finished in two ways: either thicken the sauce with a little brown thickening, add the fillets, simmer them till done enough, and flavour the soup with a dessert- spoonful of ketchup, a glass of sherry, and pepper and salt, if required; or drop two ounces of vermicelli into the soup, and when it is done enough— which will bo in fifteen minutes—mix with the soup a quarter of a pint of cream beaten up with the yolk of an egg, stir it over the tiro for a minute or two, then serve. When the soup is finished in the latter of these two ways, it is well to boil all the skate in the stock, and thus dispense with the fillets. A mixture of skate and ling, toUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 78 ■which hake may he added, will make excellent soup. Eels are a good addi- tion ; the bones should he boiled with the fish used for the stock, and the fillets cooked and served in the soup. Turtle.—The turtle, or sea tor- toise, is found in most of the seas of warm climates. The green turtle is the variety used for making the cele- brated turtle soup which forms such a noted feature of municipal feasts, hundreds of quarts being served every year at the Lord Mayor’s dinner. This soup is so expensive, and also so Fio. 15.—Green Turtle. difficult to prepare, that it is seldom made in private houses ; if it is wanted, it is bought ready-made, the cost being a guinea a quart. The turtles from which soup is made in England are sent alive from the West Indies. They vary in weight from 30 lbs. to 500 lbs., and in price from Is. to 2s. per lb., ac- cording to the state of the market. Turtle Soup.—This recipe is for soup made from the dried turtle flesh ; six ounces will make about three pints of good soup. It should be soaked in lukewarm water for three days and nights, and for the last twelve hours the heat of the water may be slightly increased. Change the water every twelve hours, and if a slightly un- pleasant odour arises from the flesh, rub it lightly over with salt. Whilst the soaking process is going on keep the basin containing the turtle in a warm place, and during the night let it stand in a cool oven. For tho last twelve hours let the water in which it is soaked be of a good warmth. When the meat has been soaked till it has lost its gluey appearance, and is swollen and comparatively soft, cut it into neat pieces two inches square, and boil it gently for twelve hours in strong stock prepared as follows:—Put a slice of lean undressed ham into a gallon saucepan, with a pound and a half of gravy beef, a pound and a half of knuckle of veal, two onions, each one with three cloves stuck into it, a head of celery, a small turnip and carrot, as much parsley as will fill a teacup, three teaspoonfuls of dried marjoram, three teaspoonfuls of dried basil, one or two mushrooms, if they are at hand, half a teaspoonful of lemon-thyme, half a saltspoonful of pennyroyal, a small teaspoonful of salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. If any chicken bones or pieces of cold roast meat are at hand, thoy may be added to the rest. Fill the saucepan with cold water, simmer the soup very gently for twelve hours, and remove the scum as it rises. The soup must on no account be loft in the saucepan all night; but if the simmering is not finished at night, the soup must be poured out into a basin, set m a cool place, and put on the fire again next day. When the soup has been reduced to two quarts, strain carefully, and remove the fat with scrupulous care. Get a pound and a half of fresh eels, cut them into pieces two inches long, and boil these in the stock. When they are tender, lift them out of the stock, and again strain it by passing it through a jelly-bag two or three times; if necessary, clear it with white of egg. When it is clear, put in the pieces of turtle flesh, and boil them gently till they are as tender as well-dressed calf’s head. At the last moment add rather more than a claret-glassful of good Madeira or good golden sherry. Pour the soup into the tureen, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and it will he ready for serving. If it is necessary to clarify the soup, whisk the whites of two eggs with about a gill of cold water. Stir this brisklySTOCKS AND SOUPS. 79 into the soup when it is just warm, let it boil, and gently lift oft' the scum as it rises. Draw the saucepan to the side, and let the soup simmer gently for half an hour. Let it stand a quarter of an hour to settle, and strain through a jelly-bag. If the soup has been gently simmered and carefully skimmed, it will most likely need only to be passed two or three times through a jelly-bag without further trouble. If thick soup is preferred to clear soup, moisten a tablespoonful of brown roux with a small portion of the soup. When it is quite smooth, pour it into the saucepan, and stir till it boils. When this thickening is used, it will be necessary to let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire with the lid on for a short time, that the fat may rise to the surface and be removed. It is custom- ary to hand cut lemon and cayenne pepper with the soup. Forcemeat- balls or quenelles were at one time universally added, but are now more seldom used. For the first named, »ee Forcemeat Balls, Rich, in the chapter on Forcemeats. For quenelles, see Veal Quenelles, under Hot Entrees. They may be made small, or moulded, just as preferred. Some authorities are of opinion that the pre- liminary soaking of the turtle flesh is a mistake, as it robs the soup of its flavour, and they advise instead that it be at once boiled in a small quantity of stock until nearly tender, after which, stock made as above described is to be added to the flesh for the final cooking. And with reference to the eels : it is almost generally accepted that they are an improvement, though some cooks object to them. The manufac- ture of turtle soup may be considerably simplified by buying, instead of the dried flesh, some “ tinned turtle ” ; this only requires cutting up and cook- ing in the stock. The “green fat” may also be bought in tins. A very small tin serves for a good measure of soup; it is, however, frequently' dis- pensed with. The proper turtle herbs and spices may also be obtained in packets and tins, with full directions for use. Then, by the use of stock No. 6 and the tinned turtle above referred to, a good deal of trouble may be saved. Probable cost of dried turtle, 8s. to 10s. per pound; green fat, from 4s. to 6s. per tin or bottle, according to size. We would add a reminder that the eels used in the soup will make a separate dish. Wines for Soups.—See Wines for Gravies and Sauces, p. 84.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. (For Salad Dressings, see Salads.) GENERAL REMARKS. The difference between good and bad cookery is very strikingly shown in the, preparation of gravies and sauces; the latter, especially “the one sauce”—viz., melted butter—have always excited the raillery of the foreigner; and although, thanks to the spread of culinary tuition, there is less cause for sarcasm at 1 lie present time, yet many people are much in the dark as to the initial methods of procedure. Hence, a short sketch of the requirements seems a fitting prelude to the detailed recipes them- selves ; and taking them in order, first a few words on GRAVY. The main points here should be an appetising appearance, harmony of flavours in the making, and suitability of kind to the dish of which it is an adjunct; and perhaps these details involve greater care on the part of the cook than is at first apparent. Both the eye and the palate must be studied—the one is appealed to through the other; and cleanliness must hold supremo sway in the kitchen, or every attempt at gravies will end in failure—a sweeping assertion, some may say, but it is literally true. The saucepan, particularly the lid and the rim, should be as free from dirt as a teacup. But for the present we leave this subject, and return to our gravies, which comprise the various kinds kuown as “ made gravies”—the pure gravies of a joint are referred to in their order; and we will ask the reader to turn to Stocks. Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5 will serve every-day purposes; No. 3 has many uses, and Nos. 6, 7, and 8 are admirably adapted for good gravies; while, needless to say, many gravies can be made from the vegetable and fish stocks therein given. But for rich gravies a special stock is required such as is given in Nos. 16 and 17. With regard to harmony of flavours, it would be impossible to describe all the various methods of flavouring, or all the possible combinations; but we may point out that certain flavours, as anchovy, develop others; while other flavours, as tarragon, have an overpowering tendency. The indiscriminate use of high seasonings must bo guarded against. What is the use of making a decoction of herbs and vegetables and meat, if it is to be killed with ketchup or Worcester* sauce? Again, a twang may be imparted to gravies by rubbing a bead of garlic over the bottom of the saucepan, while to boil the garlic in the gravy would render it uneat- able. There are few things better adapted, perhaps, for adding to the flavour of gravy than a bit of ham of good quality and a morsel of * No particular make is intended. It is referred to solelv as a type;81 GRAVIES AMD SAUCES. tomato; skins and pips can be thus used up, but it is well not to add them in the early stage, as we will point out later. Then the appearance of the gravy. Freedom from fat is essential (to attain this, see page 32); and to make a somewhat paradoxical remark, brown gravy should not be grey, yet it often is. The chief causes are the hastily-added thickening of raw flour and water, and the disregard of the fact that gravies, like soups, take time; when well made, gravies require but little added colouring, even for the brownest kinds. Those we have given on page 33 may be safely employed. Colouring-balls, a French preparation sold in tins, and granular browning salt, are also unobjectionable for some sorts, such as are to accompany very savoury dishes. Then the thickening. A common error is to make thickened gravies too thick. The distinction between a gravy and a sauce is often not sufficiently marked—a gravy served with a roast fowl is an illustration— Fig. 10.—Gravy Strainer. Fig. 17. —Pointed Strainer. and need we add that brown roux is the best thickening medium. Remember that by this means not only is the raw taste avoided and the gravy thickened, but that important element, colour, is introduced or strengthened. For gravies which are required thickened, but clear also, brown roux, of course, is out of place; here arrowroot comes to the rescue, and it is easy to get any desired consistency by adding it little by little, and letting it boil up (see page 35). Corn-flour is similarly used. Gravies should always be carefully strained ; for this pnrpose strainers are necessary. The illustration in Fig. 16 shows the commonest and cheapest form; but the pointed strainer (Fig. 17) is much moro useful, especially when required for gravy which has to bo poured round instead of over meat, &c. Both kinds may bo had with fine bottoms, suitable for clear gravy, varying up to the coarsest, which answer for sauces also. Two or three should be found in every well-appointed kitchen. SAUCES. M. Soyer has said that sauces are to cookery what grammar is to language and the gamut is to music ; and all good cooks know well that sance should serve both as a relish and a finish to the dish which it, accompanies. Even the plainest kinds should bo attractive in appear- ance, for the most homely dish is rendered more enjoyable, and the most82 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. elaborate one is enhanced by a well-made sauce; while to turn for a moment to the economical side of the question, it is certain that the family joint goes farther, aud is made more wholesome, if a tureen of some substantial sauce be served with it. Were we asked to name the chief aids to the concoction of good sauces .and gravies—and by good we mean not of necessity costly, but carefully made—we should say suitable utensils, as pans of tinned copper or iron, enamelled iron, pure steel, or fire-proof china; sieves and strainers of hair and wire, and tammy-cloth; not all of them indispensable, but to many sorts a fine sieve or a tammy-cloth is ‘‘the making” of the sauce. A hot sauce cannot be served too hot; aud so far as possible, the white ones should be served as soon as they are made; sometimes the colour suffers a good deal by waiting, but when this is unavoidable, the bain- Fig. IS.—Bain-Marie Pan marie, or a substitute, should be employed. If any must be left in the saucepans, let them be the brown, not the white sauces. The bain-marie, as will be seen from the illustration above, is a shallow pan fitted with from seven to sixteen vessels (including a glaze- pot), in which sauces, gravies, and delicate dishes may bo kept hot, without spoiling, when sufficiently cooked; aud such a vessel affords the best possible way of conveying heat without burning or spoiling the tlavour. When used, the pan is filled (from half to three-parts its depth, according to the number of saucepans to be set. in it) with boiling water, and the vessels containing the sauces, &c., are covered and set into it; it is then drawn back and left on the hot plate, where it will remain just below boiling point., otherwise many sauces would become too thick. The principle of the bain-marie should be adopted in all households where, from any cause, regularity and punctuality in the serving of meals cannot be relied on. Where a proper pan is out of the question, instead of retaining the saucepans with their contents by the fire, by which means they would probably burn or bo smoked, or otherwise spoiled, proceed as follows:—Put the water, as above directed, in a stout baking- tin, cake-tin, stew-pan, saute-pan, or anything handy; adapt the size and shape to the size and number of the vessels to be kept hot; set in the pans, covered tightly, or turn the contents of the saucepans into uprightGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 83 jars, and cover them; this takes less room, as several may bo set in one tin. To Thicken and Enrich Sauces, brown and white roux, arrowroot, corn- flour, rice-flour, chestnut-flour, eggs, butter, milk, and cream, are commonly employed. We may hero mention that when roux is required, if by chance it is not available, the next best thing is to melt the butter in the saucepan, then to stir in the flour, and cook it; if for a brown sauce, let it become brown before the liquid is put in. This is not equal to roux, but it is a good substitute. When milk is added, it should be first boiled ; the same with cream. Arrowroot, or anything of the same starchy nature, must be blended with cold liquid before adding it. Eggs must be fresh, and should be strained after beating ; the liquid must never boil after I lie}’ are put in, and if acid is put into the same sauce, that should bo added most carefully ; letnou or orange juice should always bo strained. Butter is often put into sauces at the moment of serving, to enrich and give smoothness; this should be done off the fire, and the sauce is not to bo heated again. Bad butter, stale milk, and musty eggs, will spoil the most carefully concocted sauce in the world; it is far better to cheapen the sauce by reducing the quantities of expensive ingredients, than to try the experiment of introducing inferior articles. To Sieve and Tammy Sauces.—A special tammy should be used for white sauces: that is, when a new cloth is bought it should be kept for white dishes for a time, then transferred to the brown and coloured section. Brown and other sauces which are sufficiently liquid may be wrung through a tammy; anything which demands' rubbing through requires two persons, each holding the cloth in the left hand, and rubbing with a large wooden spoon held in the right. A tammy-cloth must bo well washed; it should be put in soak as soon as doue with, and dried, never put into a drawer when damp. The best will be found the cheapest. Hair sieves, some very fine, almost as fine as a tammy, may now be had, and cost but little; these require thorough rinsing, especially the rim, and careful drying each time they aro used; anything of an acid nature should, if jjossible, always be put through a hair sieve in preference to a wire one. A large spoon or a round vegetable press the size of a saucer is useful to rub purees, <fcc., through a sieve, and saves time; with a small spoon the process is very tedious. Colouring Sauces.— Colouring for brown sauces must be regulated by the nature of the sauce itself and the dish to which it belongs. For a rich deep brown, a few drops of carmino are most useful; all for which a good stock is used, and to which claret or port is added, are generally dark enough. Then in roux, glaze, and meat extract, we have materials which serve the triple purpose of giving colour, body, and richness of flavour. Unless otherwise specified, always skim while boiling Iroion sauces or gravies to which thickening has been added. For green sauce, the “ vegetable colouring ” sold by grocers is useful; it may be had in the form of liquid and paste ; the first for clear sauce, and the second for any dish in which clearness is not an object. Colour- ing may also be made at home from spinach or parsley. The leaves shonld be washed, and pounded in a mortar until the juice flows; it is then poured ofE into a jar, set in boiling water for a few minutes, and84 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. drained on a liair sieve. The greening thns made is for immediate use only. For red, carmine is now used in preference to cochineal, as it retains its colour well; very little is required, and any shade, from the palest pink to rich crimson, may be given. This is a liquid, and may be used for any dish. Yellow colouring is required but seldom, when yolks of eggs aro used in the sauce; when it is required, liquid saffron or apricot yellow, the latter in paste iorm, can be employed for all purposes. Only the best qualities of these articles should be employed. They should bear the name of the maker, and be certified pure. Low-priced, nameless goods of this class are dear in the end; not unfrequently spoil the whole dish ; will not keep ; and are often absolutely injurious. Wines for Gravies and Sauces.—It has been well said that imitation port added to a gravy has as disastrous an effect as the contents of a blacking bottle, but that mock sherry is a still more horrible compound. The moral is, use genuine wine, or dispense with it altogether. Taking the wines in common nse, first a word on Port. Always keep a bottle handy in which to put the dregs from wine decanted for the table. In time they will settle considerably, and serve excellently for such dishes as jugged hare, venison, &c., as well as for Salmi sauce, and many others that are served with game; and for purees and soups of hare and other game, or of brown meat. Sherry should be a golden wine, not a pale, dry variety. Wheu very good it may be used in place of Madeira. The latter is particularly recommended for the rich brown sauces that are sometimes served with calf’s head; it is also the wine par excellence for mock or real turtle soup. The dregs of these two wines may be bottled together. For clear gravies, of course the clear wine is wanted; the dregs will only answer for those that are thickened. Claret is a useful wine in the kitchen. It need not be a high-priced brand, but it must be sound ; a “ vinegary ” wine is very often destructive to the flavour of the entire dish. Burgundy may often take the place of port in a dish ; so may a good claret; but in snch cases a little extra flavouring and body must be given to the sauce or gravy. For instance, if fruit jelly is an ingredient, supposing a tea- spoouful to a glass of port, one might nearly double it for the same measure of claret or Burgundy. Light Wines.—In many recipes in this work the term “ light wine ” is used, aud much must be left to the discretion of the cook, and the materials at command. The French wines of the white class, Chablis, Hock, Sauteme, and others, may be used for many fish sauces. The same wines, to which may be added Marsala, are frequently used by French cooks in gravies for braised beef and similar dishes. If at any time Marsala is used in place of sherry, a better wiuo is needed than for such dishes as are only dependent upon the lightest of these wines for their flavour; that is to say, while a very cheap one might suffice for a marinade of fish, something better would be wanted in making the gravy for beef fillets or veal cutlets. Finally, we would add that all the stocks given under Stocks and Sou})s can be utilised for sauces, in high-class recipes choosing Nos. Id and 17 for the principal kinds of brown sauces.85 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. GRAVIES. Curry Gravy.— (See Gravy a la Diable.) Make in the same way, omitting the wine, and adding a table- spoonful or more of curry sauce, sold iu bottles. Keep this sauce well corked, or it quickly loses strength. In place of the latter a teaspoonful of good curry-paste mixed with a little stock can be used. This is useful for meat, poultry, game, or fish, and can be used in many ways. Gravy a la Diable.—Required : half a pint of clear brown stock (No. 6, 7, or 8), half an ounce of arrowroot, a tablespoonful of claret, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a dessertspoonful of Worcester sauce, and a little soluble cayenne, with salt to taste, and a few drops of soy. Mix the thickening with the claret, add the rest of the ingredients, and boil for a few minutes. Serve with kidneys, steaks, &c., or with grilled fish. For a hotter sauce, increase the Worcester sauce, or boil a few cap- sicum seeds in the gravy. Another way.— Add a fried s ha lot to the gravy, and substitute port for claret; boil and skim well, and strain through a pointed strainer. Gravy a la Game.—Mix- to- gether the following ingredients: one ounce of arrowroot, one pint of stock (No. 4), one teaspoonful each of red cur- rant jelly and tomato pulp, one table- spoonful of claret, the same measure of port, a few drops of lemon-juice and a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, and marjoram), one onion cut up small, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. First blend the arrowroot with the stock, then put in all the rest. Cover, and leave for a time, when they will be warm, then bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time, strain, and add a little salt. When straining, press the dehrie well to get out the flavour. Put the herbs and onion in the stock-pot. This is useful for kidney and brown meats generally; it may be served with the meat, or the latter may be stewed, or re-heated in the gravy. Cold game may also be re-heated in it. Gravy for Ducks.—(See Gravy rou Goose.) Make it in the same way, using the giblets of the duck : or, if they are wanted for other pur- poses, fry some mixed vegetables and herbs, including a few sage-leaves, in hot fat; add stock No. 4 or 8, and boil for an- hour, then strain and thicken a little, and add a good season- ing of salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Both to this and gravy for geese a spoonful of mustard can be added, either with or without wine. Put in a little browning and ketchup or sauce also. Apple sauce is usually served in addition to the gravy, but if not re- quired, an apple may be grated and boiled in the gravy, in which case enough thickening to bind the whole well must be used; a tomato can bo put in instead of the apple. Gravy for Baked Fish.—This is a plain gravy. Take the fish from the tin, say a haddock, plaice, or piece of cod-fish; pour off the fat, then shake in a teaspoonful of browned flour ; add half a pint of fish stock or water, a tablespoonful of brown vinegar, a teaspoonful of ketchup or store sauce, with a little salt; stir well, scraping the tin, then boil up, and pour through a strainer round the fish. This is sufficient for two lbs. of fish. Or, add to the water a little herbal vinegar or pickle vinegar, in place of the ketchup. A teaspoonful each of French mustard and chutney, or a little anchovy essence, may be used in place of vinegar, if preferred. Gravy for Roast Fowl, Plain .—Wash and put the trimmings86 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. of tho fowl (the neck, &c., and, if not eaten with the hird, the liver and gizzard) in a saucepan, with a fow hits of vegetable, the ordinary sorts (see Stocks and Soups), and a sprig of thyme and parsley; add a pint or more of stock No. 1 or 2, or for a better gravy No. 4, a few black peppercorns, and a clove or two, and an ounce of lean ham, with a small piece of milt and a very lit'tle salt. Boil for two to three hours; strain, and add more stock to make up the required quantity. Thicken with corn-flour, a dessertspoonful to the pint, or brown roux or browned flour; add a few drops of browning or a pinch of “ granular salt,” and a tea- spoonful, or less, of store sauce or ketchup. For a richer gravy fry the ham and vegetables before adding tho stock ; a tomato makes it much nicer, or some liquor from tinned tomatoes in place’ of some of tho stock. Gravy for Roast Fowl, Rich.—Use stock No. 6 or 7; it need not be clarified. Boil the neck, &e., in a small quantity for several hours, strain, and add as much more as is required. Thicken and flavour as above directed. Make gravy for turkey in the same way. Gravy for Roast Goose.— Fry tho giblets with an onion, sliced, a bunch of herbs, a couple of sage- leaves, and some black peppercorns, in hot fat until brown; add a quart of common brown stock, and boil for two or three hours; then strain, add more stock to make up the quantity re- quired,- season, and thicken with a teaspopnful of roux to tho pint; add, if liked, a glass of claret or port; re- heat, but do not boil after this is put in. The giblets will make a separate dish (see recipes under Goose). For a. richer gravy, use stock No. 6, 7, 8, or one of the stocks for Gravies. (See also Gravy a la Diable.) Gravy for Goslings.—Boil a pint of stock (No. 6 or 7) with a fried onion and a sage-leaf or two, for ten minutes; season, and strain. This is preferably served unthickened, but a little arrowroot can be put in. It should not be so dark or so fully flavoured as gravy for geese that aro full grown. Gravy for Hare (see Gravy for Roast Rabbit) that will answer for a plain dish. For clear gravy, see Gravy, Clear, for Roast Rabbit, but use port (the dregs should be kept for thick gravies) ; add a little tomato vinegar, and season with salt, cayonno, and lemon-juice. For a thick gravy, add the liver, and if liked, some of the blood. (See Hare.) Gravy, German, for Hare and game generally.—Required : a large onion, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of pai'sley and basil, browned in butter, a tablespoonful each of vinegar, black currant jam, and port, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg', and some stock. Put a pint of stock (No. 16) in a stew-nan with all the above, wine excepted, boil and skim, and thicken with a bit of roux the size of a nut, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot; boil up, add the wine, cover for five minutes, then serve in a hot sauce-boat. Gravy, German, for Kidney, Liver, &c.—-Use any brown stock for this; to each pint put a minced tomato, a teaspoonful of caper vinegar, and the same of pickled shalot or onion, minced; season well, boil for twenty minutes, then pour through a strainer round the meat. Gravy, Plain, for Hashes, Minces, &c.—We will suppose that the remains of a “ cold shoulder ” are to be hashed, and that a pound of meat is handy. For the gravy, take a pint of stock from the stock-pot, or made from the bone of the joint. Put an ounce of clarified fat in a pan; when hot, add a minced onion and any vegetable trimmings, and a bunch of87 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. herbs ; brown these well, add the stock, and boil up. Cook for a while, then strain; put the gravy in a pan, and add a little thickening of corn-flour, about a level tablespoonful; boil for a few minutes, then season to taste, and add a little ketchup or store sauce, or any kind of flavoured vinegar. For beef, browned flour can be used, or roux is better still. Gravy, Superior, for Hashes, &c.—Cse stock No. 4, and after cooking the vegetables in it as above, strain, and add enough roux to make it as thick as good cream, with a little colouring and sauce or ketchup. A spoonful of tomato pulp or conserve is an improvement to gravies of this sort, and tomato vinegar is useful; it is a good colour, and of excellent flavour ; herbal or spiced vinegar in moderation also give an appetising “ twang.” If for beef, the gravy should be darker than for mutton. Gravy, Plain, for Joints.— Pour the fat from the tin carefully; rinse out the tin with boiling water, or stock* from bones, scraping all the time with a spoon, until every' particle of the concentrated gravy has been removed; each little brown speck represents the essence of the meat. Continue to stir until dissolved and the liquid becomes uniform in colour ; then put it in a small saucepan, with a little salt, re-heat it, but it need not quite boil, and pour it through a pointed strainer, round, but not over the meat, reserving the greater portion for the tureen, which should be as hot as possible. If properly made, this will be dark enough for most people, but if a deeper colour is desired, it may he imparted by granular browning salt; it gives no unpleasant flavour, but if used, no • other salt need bo added. If a slightly thickened gravy is liked, dredge a morsel of flour on the tin, and brown it in the oven, or in front of the fire before the water is A broth from a hone is here referred to Bot stock-pot liquor. added, then just boil up; browned flour is preferable to raw flour. For a joint stuffed with sage and onions, boil the skin of a bit of onion in the gravy': it will colour and flavour it. Thus gravy' is suitable for beef, pork, and mutton; veal gravy is differently made, being generally' thickened and flavoured. (See below.) Gravy for Roast Pheasant. —Some good stock is required, as No. 16. To a pint add a bit of glazd the size of a nut, a few drops of lemon- juice, a glass of white wine, and a tablespoonful or more of Fumet of GAME(q.v.). Boil up, and serve. For a plainer gravy', use stock No. 4 or 5 ; season it, and thicken with arrowroot or brown roux. To all gravies for game, the bones, however small in quantity, of any' cooked game or poultry should be added to the stock, to give a fresh gamy flavour. Make gravy for Partridges in the same way. Gravy for Sucking Pig.—A gravy' made byr pouring some stock in the pan, and boiling it up with that from the pig, is generally liked; a deli- cately flavoured stock, preferably from veal, should be used. Various kinds of sauce are served with sucking pig (q.v.). A little lemon-juice should be put in the gravy to counteract the richness of the dish. Gravy for Roast Pork.— Make a gravy' in the dripping-pan with bone stock, or stock No. 1 or 2. If liked thickened, put a little flour in the tin first, and let it brown. Boil up, add salt and a pinch of cayenne, and strain it round the meat. Lemon- juice, tomato vinegar, chutney, or curry-sauce, maybe put in pork gravy ; a small quantity only of either kind will give the required piquancy, and render it more digestible. Gravy for Roast Rabbit.— After pouring away the fat, put in tho tin a pint or so of stock (No. 4 or 5), with a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and salt arid pepper lo taste; add a gill or thereabouts ofUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 88 brown sauce, or thicken with roux or browned flour to the thickness of cream ; colour, and add a few drops of flavoured vinegar if a piquant gravy is liked. A bit of red currant jelly and a tablespoonful of port or claret should be put in if a good gravy is required. Gravy a la Game may also be served with this. Gravy, Clear, for Roast Rabbit.—Pour the fat from the lmking-tin; pour into it a pint of stock (No. 16), boil it up, and add a glass of claret, sherry, or Madeira; strain' a little round the rabbit, and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. A slight thickening of arrowroot may be used, if preferred ; many people object to a thin gravy, however good it may bo. Gravy for Roast Veal.—There are many ways of preparing this; generally, for a plain family dinner a thick gravy is preferred. To make a good one, pour away the fat from the tin, and add some veal stock, made from bones or from beef and veal bones, about a pint to a small joint; scrape the tin well, then add a little brown roux to make it as thick as cream; boil up well, and flavour with store sauco or ketchup, or add a little j vinogar and soy. A small quantity of [ glaze or extract of moat is a further improvement, and for bettor gravy use j stock No. 6. Another way.—Make a tureen of plain melted butter; add a little stock, •and boil up in the tin ; put in a spoon- ful of browning. The melted butter should be made with veal-bone stock, or any trimmings of the joint can ho stewed down with a bit of ham for tho purpose. This is paler in colour than the above. Another way.—Boil up in the tin half a pint of any ordinary plain stock, then put in a little brown sauce to make it the desired thickness ; season to taste, and put in a teaspoonful of mushroom-juice or cook a mushroom or> two in the stock. A squeeze of lomdn-juico improves veal gravy. Gravy for Veal, Hashes, lAinces, &c.—(See Entries and Made Dishes, and Cold Meat Cookery.) Gravy for Venison, Plain.— Use any odd pieces of the neck or the trimmings of the joint; cut it up, and add to a pound a pint and a half of weak mutton stock from bones or the liquor from boiled mutton ; put in a little salt and a few white peppercorns, bring to tho boil, skim, and simmer for two hours, then strain for use. Gravy for Venison, Rich.— Use a richer mutton stock, and add two ounces of lean ham; simmer ns above described, with the same weight of meat, &c. Gravy for Venison, Sweet. —Required: a glass of port, a table- spoonful of red currant jelly, a strip of lemon-peel, half a pint of gravy as in the preceding recipe, a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix in a saucepan, boil up, skim, and serve. A morsel of glaze may be added, and tomato jelly may he substituted for the red currant jelly. Gravy, Orange, for Wild Duck, &c. — Put a minced shalot on to boil in a pint of stock (No. 6, 7, or 8). Add the thin rind of half a Seville orange, a little salt, a few pepper- corns, a clove, and a strip of lemon- rind, a few leaves of basil and thyme, and boil for twenty minutes ; then add the juice of half the orange and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, a glass of claret or port, and a pinch of cayenne; re-heat, but do not quite boil this, then strain through a hot strainer. For a milder flavour, use loss rind, or boil it before adding it. Gravy, American, for Wild Fowl.—To a gravy made as above an extra quantity of port is added, and a tablespoonful of black currant jelly. The flavour is good, so is the colour, and such a gravy “ goes ” with game of most kinds. Gravy for Wild Fowl, teal, widgeon, and pigeons, may bte made asGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 80 for Pheasant. Ur a slightly thick- ened gravy, from stock No. 16 or 17, flavoured with orange-juice or lemon- juice and wine, either sherry, Madeira, claret, or port, is suitable. Ortolans and quails may be similarly served. (See Game and recipe for Fumet or Game.) HOT SAUCES—MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, AND FISH. Anchovy Sauce.—The simplest method is to mix a tablespoonful (more or less, according to taste) of essence of anchovies with a pint of melted butter. Or anchovy paste, sold in pots, may be used, but then a few drops of colouring will be wanted. Anchovy Sauce for Beef Steak. - Mix half a pint of brown sauce with a tablespoonful of lemon- juice and a lump of anchovy butter the size of a walnut; heat it carefully, add a little carmine, and serve hot. A very good sauce is made as above, with the addition of a teaspoonful of bruised capers and a tablespoonful of cucumber cut into dice (or it may be pulped), after cooking in a little butter until tender; it is called an- chovy sauce piquante. Apple Sauce.—Peel, core, and quarter a pound of good cooking apples ; put them in a jar with a little- water, just to keep them from burning ; cook them, covered, in the oven to a pulp, then add enough sugar to sweeten, a little lemon-juice, an ounce of butter, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; rub through a sieve, and re-heat for use. If more convenient, the fruit may be boiled in a saucepan. For a plain sauce, leave out the butter, and beat to a pulp without sieving. A vegetable masher (called a potato masher) can be used for the same purpose. Asparagus Sauce.—Cut the green tops of asparagus into half-inch lengths, wash them, and boil quickly until tender; then drain, and put them at the instant of serving into some bechamel or good melted butter, with a squeeze of lemon-juice. The sauco must not stand, or the asparagus will change colour. There should be a gill andahalf of the asparagus points, before boiling, to each half pint of sauce. Another way.—Use the water in which the asparagus is boiled to make the sauce. (For the method of making, see Asparagus Puree dressed in Vege- tables.) Secliamel Sauce.—This is one of the most delicious as well as most useful of all the sauces; it is always popular, and worth making well. Be- chamel should be creamy, therefore cream is a principal ingredient. There are many methods of preparing this sauce, andsome areof a very complicated nature. The following is as simple as is consistent with so rich a sauce :— First, the stock, which must bo strong and white. Veal, poultry, and ham form the foundation ; a pound each of the meats and from two to four ounces of ham to two pints and a half of water will serve as a guide to proportions; and although fresh poultry is preferable (and it may be cheaper to buy an old fowl on purpose when large quantities arc needed), still, cooked poultry can be used (the remains of a boiled fowl, for instance); and for a small portion of bechamel, if the larder contains a bone or two only of a fowl, with a scrap of fresh veal or a bone, and a morsel of lean bacon, anyone may readily indulge in the desired luxury. First lay the meats as above in a pan, with an ounce of butter and vegetables as given in Stock No. 9 ; add a little of tho water, nnd bring to the boil; add the rest by degrees, with a pinch of salt now and again, and when the whole is added, cover, and cook for eight or nine hours; leave it to cool, then freo it from fat and sediment.universal cookery book. 90 When required, put a pint and a half in a pan with a few button mush- rooms, a morsel of carrot and turnip, salt and whito peppercorns, a hit of mace, thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf; cover, and boil gently until reduced to a pint, then strain it, and add an equal measure of boiling cream. This makes a quart, which may he thickened in cither of three ways. First, add white roux ; or, melt threo ounces of butter in a saucepan, and mix with it three ounces of fine dry flour; let it cook without browning, add the liquid, and boil up; or, use arrowroot, about three ounces, and stir in the same weight of buttor. After the final boil up, tammy the sauce, and re-heat before serving. This is rich creamy bechamel, and in futuro recipes will be thus referred to ; when thick bechamel is mentioned, tho same sauce made thicker is intended— two ounces each of flour and butter or roux in proportion being used to each half pint. This serves for masking various dishes. Bechamel (Economical). — For a pint of sauce, take half a pint of white stock, but do not boil it down; simmer tho vegetables in half a pint of milk and water, mixed until flavoured, then strain; mix in the stock, add milk to make up a pint in all, then thicken as above, making it creamy or thick, as desired. The light part of the carrot only is used. Bechamel Maigre.—This is mado as above, but no stock is used. Take a gill of water and three gills of milk ; cook the vegetables in the water, strain, add the boiling milk, then thicken and finish as above. For this and the preceding a hair sieve will do in place of a tummy. Black Butter.—Melt in a fry- ing-pan threo ounces of butter, and let it become a rich brown ; it must not become literally black butter, or it would bo burnt butter. In another pan heat a tablespoonful each of chopped capers and their vinegar, French vinegar, and Harvey sauce. Take the buttor from tho fire, and stir in the contents of the second pan ; add a pinch of pepper, and servo in a hot sauce-boat. The capers may be omitted, and some sprigs of parsley added; they should be thrown into the hot butter; a second will crisp them. Sometimes a little ketchup is added. Serve with skate or other fish, poached eggs, or calf’s brains. Bordelaise Sauce.—Required: half a pint of stock (Nos. 6 or 7), a gill and a half of claret, seasoning, and thickening. Cost, about 6d. Rub a saucepan across the bottom with a clove of garlic; put in a bit of mace and half an inch of stick cinna- mon, a good pinch of cayenne, then add the stock; boil until a fourth re- duced, then strain, and add the claret. Mix three-quarters of an ounce of arrowroot to a smooth paste, add it very gradually, and boil up. It should look like thin treacle, and it is neces- sary that the stock bo clear of fat and sediment, as, though a thickened sauce, it should be bright. Serve with fish. (See also Entrees.) Bread Sauce.—Required: a pint * of milk, one ounce of butter, a salt- spoonful of salt, a small onion or shalot, two cloves, six crushed white peppercorns, a couple or three table- spoonfuls of cream, and half a pint of bread-crumbs. Prepare the crumbs by rubbing some whito broad of a few days old through a sieve; put them in a saucepan with the other ingredients, stir until the sauce boils, then simmer for ten minutes, stirring all tho time; then take out the onion, and serve. If a mild onion flavour is liked, parboil or scald it before adding it to the sauce. If a very thick sauce is liked, increase tho quantity of the crumbs; and if time is an object, the milk may be boiled and poured over the bread. After standing covered for half an hour, it only need bo stirred just to the boil. Bread Sauce (Vegetarian),91 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. —Use whole-meal bread, and water in- ■ stead of milk ; brown an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter together in a pan, mix in a fried onion and a clove or two, add the water and crumbs, and boil for a quarter of an hour; coloiu- with browning, or put in a little ket- chup or vinegar. Sometimes sage or other herb is added, and the onion, if : finely chopped, may be left in the -sauce. Remove the cloves before serv- ing. Brown Sauce.—In the prepara- tion of dinners including a variety of dishes it would be quite impossible to -make a start without a supply of sauce, ■such as the following. Besides, there are almost every-day uses for it in ihouses where little dishes are the -rule; a “ladleful of brown sauce” enters into the composition of so many -things; and we recommend the first r recipe as one likely to meet ordinary rrequirements, and which we will call Brown Sauce, Standard, 3To. 1 —Put a quart or more of brown ■stock (No. 4) into a saucepan, with a tomato sliced and a bunch of herbs; bring to the boil, and add some brown rroux, four ounces to the quart, by de- rgrees; continue to boil, and skim so long ■as it throws up any fat; when clear, ' ammy it, and set aside for use. In cold weather a good supply may be made, as if boiled up occasionally it --.will keep well. In recipes throughout (■-his work wherever “brown sauce ” is mentioned, the above is intended, unless otherwise specified. The following is r-icher, and will be referred to as Brown Sauce No. 2.—Substi- nte stock No. 16 (page 30), and make he sauce exactly as above. When I: r -onx is not at hand, use equal parts of lour and butter, and fry to a rich crown (with a slice of onion); two unices and a half of each will bo re- quired, and the sauce must bo boiled ►veil. Brown Sauce, Vegetarian. I —Required: one ounce of butter, one ounce of floor, one or two mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, one pint of water,- a crust of bread, one onion, two cloves, a teaspoonful of walnut ketchup. Cost, about 4d. Put the crust of bread, after toasting it, in the water; when a good colour, strain it. Melt the butter, fry in it tho onion, flour, mushrooms, and herbs; add the water, boil for half an hour, put in salt and pepper and the ketchup, then strain and use. No. 2 .—This is a piquant sauce. Fry together the vegetables as above, with a tomato; add the water (un- coloured), and a tablespoonful each of tomato vinegar and caper vinegar; boil for half an hour, then season and strain. The vegetable stocks, as used for soups, may serve as the foundation for these sauces; and to the last named some chopped capers, gherkins, or parsley may be added. Suitable for serving with boiled rice or macaroni, boiled and stewed lentils, peas and beans, baked onions, and many other dishes. (See Rice, Maca- roni, and Vegetables.) Burdwan Sauce.—Put in a stew-pan half a pint of stock (No. 7), or any similar; add a teaspoonful of soy, the same of cucumber vinegar, mushroom ketchup, and lemon pickle ; bring to the boil, and tammy; put back in the pan, with a teaspoonfui of extract of meat and a gill of brown sauce; boil for a few minutes, and serve hot. (See Entrees and Game and Poultry for the various uses of this sauce.) Butter, Melted. — “ So-called melted butter is the only sauce with which many people are acquainted, and the majority have never tasted it at all,” was tho apparently paradoxical sentence which met our eye a short time ago ; it was the expression of a chef, and there is doubtless much truth in it. Of course, a good deal that goes by the name of melted buttor, and which is sometimes very thick and lumpy, and often made with milk, has no connection with tho sauce which92 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. bears tho above title. We know that oiled butter in literally melted butter; and authorities never tire of telling us that there should he less of flour and water than of butter. Such a sauce is, however, too rich and expensive for most people. Then we are told that tho sauce should never boil, or the flavour suffers; this, though, is mis- leading, for the flour would then havo a raw taste. We think that the difficulty may he overcome by adopting tho method given in the following recipes. The result will be a sauce neither oily, lumpy, nor raw. Butter, Melted, No. 1. (very plain).—Melt in a very clean pan an ounce of butter ; put an ounce of flour through a sieve, stir it with a wooden spoon into the butter, then add gradually threo-quarters of a pint of cold water, stirring all tho time in one direction until it boils. Stir for a minute more, then take the pan from the fire, and put in, bit by bit, blend- ing each portion thoroughly, another ounce of butter; it is then ready to serve as it is, or with added ingre- dients from which tho sauce would take its name. A few drops of lemon- juice should bo added. No. 2.—This is rich. Melt the butter, and add flour as above; put in half a pint of water only, and when it boils take it from tho fire, and stir in, as above directed, two ounces more butter, or three or four if a very rich sauce is required ; add a pinch of salt off the fire. If anything richer is wanted, use Oiled Butteu. When for boiled fish or meat, use the stock in place of water, but first boil it and skim it well, and let it cool before adding, or the sauce is liable to become lumpy; made as advised, it cannot become lumpy, hut it should be passed through a fine strainer or tammy to give smoothness. Sometimes the yolk of an egg is added, and some cooks put in cream; but such additions are not necessary. Milk should not bo used ; that is suitable for various white sauces, tiot for molted butter. Butter, Oiled .—This can he served with fish, or dressed vegetables, asparagus, artichokes, &c. Put as much butter as is required into a very delicate pan (enamelled is best); heat it slowly on the hot plate of the range until it looks frothy; remove this scum, and stir the butter; skim again, and when it looks clear pour it off from tho sediment; the object is to get rid of the scum, which comes to the top, and the sediment, which goes to the bottom; care must be taken that it does not become burnt. The better tho butter the less there will bo to remove, and only good butter, the very freshest, is suitable for this. Caper Sauce.—Required : half a pint of melted butter, a tablespoonful of French capers, with half that measure of their vinegar. If for boiled mutton, use the liquor from the pot for tho melted butter; chop the capers, and add them with the vinegar after the sauce is boiled ; it will have more flavour than if they are used whole. Caper Sauce, Brown.—Use a gill each of Brown Saucb and ordinary stock, as No. 4; bring them to the boil, add capers and vinegar as above, and if for high-class dishes, a tea- spoonful of sherry or Madeira and the same measure of extract of meat. This is useful for grilled meats, &c. It may also be served with fish, then fish stock should he put in in place of No. 4. If for baked fish, add the liquor from the tin. Capsicum Sauce.—Required: four capsicums, one teaspoonful each of French mustard, French vinegar, and hot chutney, and a few drops of caper vinegar, with salt to taste, and a pint and a quarter of Brown Savce. Take the seeds from the capsicums, put them in a little of the sauce with the other ingredients, and boil for ten minutes; add the rest of the sauce— after tho first mixture has been sieved to remove the seeds—and boil up, then cut tho capsicums into shreds, and put93 GRAVIES AND SAUCES; them in; let the sauce stand a minute, then serve. This is excellent with all sorts of grilled meat and poultry. Note.—Small capsicums are here referred to. Carp, Sauce for.—This is equally good with any other lish of the same ( hiss. Required ; a gill each of fish stock and light wine, a tablespoonful each of vinegar and lemon-juice, a teaspoonful each of grated horse-radish, soy, and anchovy essence. Boil the horse-radish in the stock, then strain; add all the rest, with roux or flour and butter to make it as thick as good cream; boil up, and put in salt and pepper to taste. Many kinds of fish which are often condemned as worthless would be relished if this, or some such sauce, were served with them. It gives piquancy to a tasteless fish, and renders “ woolly ” or “ dense ” fish more di- gestible. Carrot Sauce.—Required: car- rots, brown sauce, and seasoning as below, butter, and tomato. Wash, scrape, and grate the carrots (outer part only) until there is enough to fill a half-pint measure ; put it in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter a ripe tomato minced, a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf), a pinch of salt and sugar, and a saltspoonful of ernshed white peppercorns; cook for twenty minutes, shaking often; add a gill of good brown stock, and boil until the whole can be sieved; return it to the pan with a gill of Brows Sauce, boil up, and serve with steaks, cutlets, &c. By using less stock and more carrots, the sauce may be converted into a puree for serving •n the centre of a dish of cutlets. (See Dressed Veoetabi.es.) For a cheap carrot sauce for boiled meat, add a teacupful of carrots, boiled and sieved, to an equal measure of plain melted butter. Cavaliers’ Sauce.—Required : a pint of Brown Sauce, a teaspoonful each of chutney, chopped capers, sweet pickles minced, and French musjprd ; , a dessortspoonful each of tomato vine- gar and Madeira, and seasoning to taste. Put the above materials, wine ex- cepted, in a stew-pan ; bring to the boil, add salt and pepper, then the wine and a squeeze of lemon-juice; cover, and let it stand a few minutes, then serve. This is a delicious sauce; it goes with almost anything; is also useful for re-heating cold meat, game, and fish. {See Cavaliers’ Broil.) Celery Sauce.—Take the white part from a couple of heads of celery. Required, in addition, some white stock, white roux, and cream. First wash the celery, remove all green leaves and discoloured portions ; put it in a stew-pan with cold water and a pinch of salt, bring just to the boil, strain, and wash in cold water, then dry it; cut it up, and put it on to boil with enough white stock (No. 9) to cover ; cook until tender, then sieve or tammy it, and put back in the pan with white roux to thicken, and a little boiling cream. This should be as thick as Onion Sauce (which see). Instead of the cream and roux, a small quantity of thick bechamel may be used. For a cheaper sauce, cook the celery in plain white stock, and add boiling milk, with corn-flour or roux to thicken. Serve with poultry, veal, &c. For a brown sauce, cut up the celery (outer parts), and fry it with a bunch of herbs and a slialot; then add stock No. 4 and boil; when tender, rub through a sieve, then boil up, and thicken in the usual way. Season delicately ; the celery flavour should not be nullified. Cheese Sauce.—Required : n tablespoonful of any good dry English cheese, twice that measure of grated Parmesan cheese ; half a pint each of milk and medium white stock, a dash of cayenne, while pepper, and salt; a few drops of lemon-juice, the yolk of an egg, two ounces of flour, and ono ounce of butter. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock and milk, and boil up ; put94 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. in the seasoning and cheese, and heat well. Beat up the egg with a table- spoonful of warm stock very tho- roughly ; add the hot sauce gradually, and continue the beating for a minute or two; serve at once, without re- heating. For a rich sauce, add another ounce of butter and a half gill of cream. This is very delicious with plainly boiled macaroni or rice, or with various white vegetables. For a vegetarian recipe, use all milk. Chestnut Sauce.—Required: twenty-four chestnuts, a small tea- spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, one ounce of butter, a gill each of milk, cream, and good white stock, either from meat or poultry, and a grate of nutmeg and lemon-peol. Roast the chestnuts, remove the outer and inner skins, put them in a mortar with the butter and seasoning, pound, and add the liquids by degrees; put into a clean pan, bring to the boil, and serve. Or, add the stock and milk to the paste, pass through a sieve, stir to the boil, and add the boiling cream last thing. This is the better way. For a cheaper sauce, use milk and a plain white stock in equal parts, and put in a spoonful of cream last minute. Chestnut Sauce, Brown.— Proceed as above directed, using stock No. 4, or either of the clear brown stocks (omitting the milk and cream); boil up, and put in a tablespoonful or two of brown sauce, and season rather highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Chutney Sauce.—There are various ways of making this, but the most generally acceptable is a sauce for which both sweet chutney and hot chutney arc used ; take equal parts of each kind, and add to four tablespoon- fuls, when mixed, an equal measure of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a tablospoonful of fresh tomato pulp or conserve; put in a little brown stock, e. tablespoonful or so, boil altogether, and put in a pinch of salt if required. Good with grills, broils, &c., of all sorts; and a first-rate basis for a rechauffe. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Required : a pint of white stock, from veal or poultry (see No. 9), a gill each of milk and cream, a heaping tablespoonful of freshly-grated cocoa-nut, a pinch each of salt, white pepper, and grated lemon-rind, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; roux to thicken. Boil together the stock, nut, and seasoning, for twenty minutes; it is well to soak the nut in the stock for an hour; add the milk and cream boiled, and enough roux to make it as thick as good cream; when boiled and skimmed, tammy, and re-heat for use. Serve with white meats or poultry. Desiccated nut can be used, if plain unsweetened; it should soak in the stock for an hour or two, and be boiled for half an hour or more. Colouring for Sauces. (See p. 83.) Crab Sauce.—Cut up the claws into dice, add to half a pint of Melteii Butter, season, and flavour with anchovy essence. If the body of the crab is not required for other purposes, that can be added ; it should be mixed with the melted butter and sieved, and finished off as directed. Some- times mustard is added to this. Crayfish Sauce.— Required: a dozen crayfish, one egg, seasoning, &c., as under mentioned. Put the shells of the fish, after bruising them well, also the small claws and tails, in a pan with cold water, and boil down to half a pint; strain, and thicken with roux, and add a gill of cream, or milk for a plain sauce ; beat the egg, add the sauce by degrees, then put in the flesh of the fish cut up very small; add a pinch of salt, cayenne, white pepper, and grated lemon-peel; stir well, and re-heat, but do not boil again. Cream Sauce, American.— Blend an ounce of arrowroot with coldGRAVIES AS’b SAUCES. 95 milk to a paste; add a pint of thin cream and a gill of strong stock from the bones of any white fish ; stir until it boils, put in salt to taste, and a few drops of cayenne essence or chilli vine- gar, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsiey and chervil previously blanched (all the seasonings go in off the fire) ; stir, and serve with white fish of all kinds, or with salmon. This is equally good for use with white meats, in which case strong veal or poultry stock is used in place of fish stock. Cream Sauce for Vegetables. —Make as above, but use equal parts of cream and vegetable stock (the latter may be simply the water in which the vegetable has been cooked, if suitable); thicken with an ounce and a half of arrowroot to each pint, season as above, and add a few drops of lemon-juice. If liked, the green herbs can be omitted. This is ex- cellent with asparagus, artichokes, young carrots and turnips, marrows, various kinds of beans, &c. &c. Cress Sauce.—To half a pint of plain melted butter put some water- cress or small cress and mustard. It should be boiled for a minute, then wrung dry and chopped; a table- spoonful is enough for the above. If liked, colour it with spinach-juice or parsley-juice. This can be served with fish or poultry. Cucumber Sauce. — Take a quickly-grown cucumber, peel it, take out the seeds, then cut it in thin slices. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, put in the cucumber, with a little salt and pepper, a sprig of parsley, and a grate of nutmeg ; cook until it is soft, then add about an equal measure of good melted butter or creamy bechamel (the latter is the better) ; pass all through a hair sieve, add a drop or two of lemon-juice or white vinegar after re-heating, then colour faintly with vegetable-green colouring. For a brawn sauce, fry the cucumbers in the butter, cook until tender, add brown gravy or stock, with roux to thicken,, or some brown, sauco, Curry Sauce (Plain).—Re- quired : a good-sized onion or two, a sour apple, a tablespoonful of freshly- grated cocoa-nut, a small tomato, one ounce of curry-powder, one ounce of rice-flour, a bunch of herbs, a few black peppercorns, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a soupi;on of the grated rind of a lemon, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of sweet chutney, salt, and pepper if required, one ounce of butter, and one pint of stock (No. 4). Cost, about 8d. Melt the butter, slice the onion, brown it in the butter, put in the apple (uncored) in slices, the herbs, &c., and the nut. Blend the stock, curry, and rice-flour, add them, and boil all gently until soft enough to sieve ; after that process, put it back in the pan with the lemon-juice, and add to it any meat, fish, &c., previously cooked, if it is intended for a rechauffe ; but it may be served with various meats separately cooked, or uncooked meat can be cut up and cooked in it. (See Entrees and Made Dishes An- other recipes and hints on Curries.) Digestive Sauce.—This is a very pleasant and wholesome combina- tion of ingredients, and the sauce may be served with pork or mutton when stuffed with sage and onions, goose fashion. To make it, mix together equal parts, say half a pint each, of Apple Sauce and Onion Sauce. Add a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, a tablespoonful of tomato pulp or conserve, and the same measure of sweet chutney; stir in a tea- spoonful of mild curry or mulliga- tawny paste, boil up, and sorvo. If liked, two ounces of sultana raisins can be boiled in a littlo stock until tender, and added. Dutch Sauce.—Required: the yolks of throo eggs, a wincglassful of water (or veal broth), threo ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, and a small bunch of herbs. Cost, ubout bd.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. fJo Put the vinegar, lemon-juice, and water in a stew-pan, boil until a fourth reduced, then strain it into a jar; put in the yolks of the eggs and the butter, set the jar in a pan of boiling water, and stir the contents one way until thick, and on the point of boiling. Then season and serve. If liked, a little tarragon vinegar may be added. This can be served with fish, or meat, poultry, or vegetables: anything, in fact, which requires a delicate sharp sauce. For a cheaper sauce, melt two ounces of butter in a pan, stir in a teaspoonful of flour, cook for a minute, then add vinegar and lemon-juice (half the above quantities) and a little season- ing. Beat two eggs up with a little water, stir them into the sauce until well blended, then serve. A much safer way to avoid curdling is to make the sauce in either of the foregoing ways, except that the lemon- juice is added off the fire. If the sauce is poured in the tureen, and the juice stirred into it, there is little or no fear of curdling. Very fresh eggs must be used, and the best fresh butter. Egg- Sauce-—For a plain sauce, boil three eggs hard, cut the yolks and whites separately into small dice, and add them to half a pint of Melted Butter (icsing the liquor from the meat or fish with which it is to be served), with a little salt and pepper. If for fish, put in a drop or two of anchovy essence ; and some people like chopped parsley added. For a richer sauce, take half a pint of Creamy Bechamel or good Melted Butter ; boil the eggs, and rub the yolks through a sieve : add them to the sauce, and cut the whites into very small dice, or they may be omitted ; put in a teaspoonful of lemon-juico if for fish. Another way.—Use veal or other white stock instead of the bechamel, thicken* with roux, then finish as above directed. Gooseberi*y Sauce. —Required: a pint of young gooseberries, with seasoning, &c., as below. Top and tail the fruit, wash it well, and boil it in enough cold water to cover until soft; then press it through a hair sieve to keep back the seeds; put the pulp in a stew-pan with a bit of butter, a little moist sugar, just to take off the extreme acidity, and a pinch each of grated nutmeg and ginger; stir to the boil, and if hand}', put in a little spinach-juice: it improves colour and flavour; failing that, use some vegetable colouring. Another way.—Prepare the pulp as above, then add to it about half its bulk of Melted Butter or any nice white sauce; finish off as directed. This is a less piquant sauce than the first, and is often preferred on that account. Bottled fruit, unsweetened, can be used for this. Horseradish Sauce (Brown), for hot roast or boiled beef.—Put a pint of stock made from roast beef bones on to boil, add a tablespoonful of grated horseradish, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a little lemon-juice; strain when well fla- voured, and thicken with a little roux very slightly ; it should be more like a gravy in consistency. Boil up with a pinch of castor sugar, and serve. For a plain sauce, if for boiled beef, use the pot liquor, coloured brown, instead of stock. See also Cold Sauces. Lemon Sauce. — Required : a lemon and half a pint of Melted Butter. Put the melted butter in a saucepan; peel the lemon, take away the white pith and the pips, cut the fruit into tiny dice, add to the sauce- pan, cover, and simmer for a short time. Serve with boiled fowls. Another way.—Use the strained j uice of half a lemon; it should be added to the melted butter very gradual! y, after it has been boiled and cooled a little. Re-heat, and put in a saltspoonful or more of grated lemon-rind and a little salt. For Lemon and Liver Sauce, the liver of the fowl should be boiled and97 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. minced finely, and added with the cut lemon; or if the second method is adopted, it should he pounded and sieved after cooking, and put in before the lemon-juice and peel. Lobster Sauce.—First boil the shell of the lobster, with a few pepper- corns, a small bunch of herbs, and a slice of onion, in cold water for forty to fifty minutes ; strain, and boil down to three quarters of a pint; add to it white roux to thicken, or two ounces each of flour and butter, with a gill of boiling cream, a dash of cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and the flesh of half a lobster cut in small dice shapes. Then put in some lobster butter or coral and a few drops of lemon-juice; do not boil again. Failing these, put in a drop or two of carmine. Another way. —This is economical, and may be made from tinned lobster of the best quality. Cut the fish up as above directed, and add it to some melted butter or fish stock mixed with an equal measure of boiling milk and a little roux. If lobster coral or butter an be added, this will be very good indeed—but little inferior to fresh lobster sauce. Some authorities advise that the lobster be pounded, but this makes it string}-. It may be cut quite small, but it should not be pounded or shredded. Melted Butter. —See Bcttek. Mushroom Sauce (Brown).— Wash and peel some mushrooms of medium size, dry them in a cloth, then J chop them as finely as possible with a small shalot or a spring onion to half a pound; put them in a stew-pan, with a squeeze of lemon-juice or a few drops of white vinegar, a pinch of powdered herbs, a little salt and black pepper, and an ounce of butter; cook slowly to a pulp. Then add to it Brow.v Sauce or thickened brown stock, nicely flavoured, by degrees; it should be quite thick: more like a puree than a sauce—the exact consistency is a matter of taste; then boil up and I) skim. This is much nicer than a sauce made by simply adding chopped mushrooms to some ordinary sauce or gravy. Serve with steaks, cutlets, &c. Mushroom Sauce (White).— Use button mushrooms ; wash them in lemon-juice and water, and cook in butter as above, without browning in the least. Add to the puree (in place of the brown sauce) some good Melted Butter, or Bechamel, or boiling milk thickened with roux, or any ordinary white sauce, according to the purpose for which it is required. For high- class dishes, Bechamel or Supreme sauce, or boiling cream, is most suitable. Mustard Sauce (Brown).— To half a pint of plain brown stock (No. 2 will do, if coloured) add a tea- spoonful of French mustard and half a teaspoonful of English mustard, mixed smoothly with a little cold vinegar, French or good English ; put in a little roux or brown flour to thicken, boil up, and servo. This is suitable for serving with baked had- docks or other fish. Mustard Sauce (White).— To three-quarters of a pint of Melted Butter, or plain sauce made from fish stock and milk, add mustard as above ; omit the vinegar, and put in a table- spoonful of cream. A superior flavour may be given by boiling a bit of horse-radish in a little fish stock, and adding it, or by the addition of a few drops of horse-radish vinegar. Okra Sauce.—Required: a gill and a half of the liquer from a tin of okra, tho same measure of Brown Sauce, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme und basil, a couple of shalots, seasoning to taste, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and an ounce of butter. Cost of okra, about Is. per tin. Brown tho shalots and hex-bs in the butter, add tho okra liquor, and boil up; put in tho sauce and season- ing, and skim well, then, after ton minutes’ boiling, strain for u«o.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOR. 98 Another way.—If a green sauce is desired, use white sauce instead of brown; put in some chopped parsley and a morsel of tarragon, and flavour with herbal vinegar, then add colour- ing sufficient to give a pale green tinge. This sauce, in either form, has the merit of novelty, and may he served with vegetables, meat, or fish. Those to whom the peculiar flavour of okra is agreeable will enjoy it with almost any dish. The okra itself may be used for soup or salad (see Index). Olive Sauce.—First turn the olives (see Vegetables) , blanch them by putting them in boiling water for five minutes, then in cold water for five to ten minutes; add from four to six ounces thus prepared to a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 2), with a teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice, and simmer for about twenty minutes. Add a gill of brown gravy or stock, and serve. Onion Sauce.— Required: one pound of onions, half a pint of milk, half a pint of the liquor from boiled meat or rabbit, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, salt and pepper. Cost, about 5d. Peel the onions, boil them until tender, changing the water if they are old ; then chop them until very small. Make a sauce of the other ingredients (see White Sauce, Plain) ; add the onions, with seasoning, boil up, and servo very hot. Another way.—Instead of the sauce as above, use a pint of Melted Butter, plain or medium. Onion Sauce, Richer.—Blanch the onions by putting them in cold water with a pinch of salt, and bring- ing them just to the boil; then rinse them in clean cold water and slice them thinly ; put half a pound into a saucepan, with half a pint of milk and an ounce of butter; boil until soft, then pass all through a sieve, and return to the pan, with a tublcspoonful cr two of cream and an ounce or so of white roux; or, instead of cream and roux, add a gill of thick beehameL (See also, Onion Puree and Sauce Soubise.) If a very mild sauce is required, par-boil the onions, in addition to blanching them. Orange Sauce.—Add half a pint of Orange Gravy to a gill of Brown Sauce; boil up, and serve with game. Oyster and Shrimp Sauce. -—Required: half a pint of Brown Sauce, a gill of oyster liquor, six oysters, half a gill of freshly-shelled shrimps, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and seasoning as below. Cost of oysters and shrimps, about 8d. Put the sauce in a pan, with the strained oyster liquor and the beards, first pounded with a strip of lemon- rind ; add the anchovy, a few drops of lcmon-juice, salt and cayenne to taste, a sprig of parsley, and a morsel of mace; boil for twenty minutes, then strain the sauce. Put it back in the pan with a tablespoonful of fish stock or good white stock, and the shrimps; cover for a few minutes, then add the oysters, cut in dice; cover again until heated through, but if it boils for a second only the oysters will become leathery. Serve hot with fish (see recipes), or with beef steaks. Oyster Sauce, Plain.—Re- quired ; twelve oysters, some White Sauce, and seasoning as below. Beard the oysters, and put tho beards in the strained oyster liquor, with a grate or two of nutmeg, a strip of lemon-rind, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce; add a table-spoonful of fish stock if for fish, or white stock or milk if for meat; boil for twenty minutes, then strain off tho liquor, and add to it twice its measure of thick white sauce; put in more seasoning, if required, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Then hold the oysters (after cutting them in two or threo pieces) in a strainer over boiling water for a few seconds, and add them to the sauce. Do not boil again. (See Oys- ters, Tinned.) rGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 99 Oyster Sauce, Rich.—Alter simmering the beards of the oysters, with other ingredients as in the above recipe, strain the liquor, and add an equal measure of boiling cream and half the measure of thick bechamel; stir in a teaspoonful of white roux, and put in lemon-juice and a few drops of anchovy essence. Cut up the oysters (if very small, use a dozen and a half, and divide them once only), steam them as above, add to the sauce, cover for a few seconds, then serve. Another way. —Mix the strained oyster liquor with an equal measure of thick Bechamel, and finish off as above directed. This is suitable for serving with turkey or other meat, and the yolk of a raw egg is sometimes added ; no other thickening is needed. Parsley Sauce. — Required: parsley and Melted Butter, colouring, and salt. Pick the parsley from the stalks, wash it in tepid water, then in cold water several times renewed; squeeze it dry in the corner of a clean cloth, put it on a board, and chop it finely with a sharp knife; add a heaping tablespoonful to half a pint of melted butter, stir for a minute or two, but do not boil again. Some object to the flavour of the parsley when added raw, in which case scald it, by putting it in a bit of muslin (after picking and washing), and holding it for a second or two in fast boiling water with a pinch of salt in; then dip it in cold water, wring dry, and chop as above directed. Parsley Sauce, Rich.—Scald • the parsley as above; after chopping, rub it through a hair sieve, and add a tablespoonful to half a pint of rich Melted Butter, Bechamel, or othor . good white sauce ; colour a palo green with spinach-juice or parsley-juice, or U3e the vegetable green colouring. (See page 83.) Parsley Sauce, with Chives. —Add to a pint of parsley sauce a ! tablespoonful of chopped chives or young onions, first boiled until tender Serve with boiled meat. Perigueux Sauce.—Required: a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 2), enough truffles, minced finely, to fill a quarter pint measure, a gill of good sherry or Madeira, and a dust of cayenne; herbs, &c., as below. Put the browm sauce in a pan ; boil in it for a few minutes the following ingredients tied in muslin: a morsel of garlic the size of a pea, a bit of bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, and lemon- peel, and a minced shalot; then take out the herbs, squeezing them well; add the wine and truffles, boil for five or six minutes, then serve. Some authorities recommend the addition of a bit of butter just before serving, to “ soften the flavour.” When fresh truffles are used, they must be scrubbed well and peeled, and cooked for a longer time in the sauce; and a teaspoonful of lean ham, grated, is sometimes added. (See Truffles, in Vegetables.) Poivrade Sauce.—Mince some carrot, onion, turnip, celery, and parsley, a good tablespoonful in all; crush half-a-dozen peppercorns ; add a bit of lean ham, and brown them in hot butter; then put in half a gill of French vinegar, and the same of white wine ; reduce a fourth, then stir in half a pint of Brown Sauce and a lump of sugar, with a teaspoonful or more of mush- room ketchup. Boil slowly, and skim for a quarter of an hour, then strain for use. Claret is sometimes used for this, and lemon-juice instead of vinegar, or half of each. Cayenne is often added. Rice Sauce.—Put in a stew-pan an ounce of butter; pick and wash two ounces of the best Carolina rice ; add it and a pint of milk, with a pinch of salt, half a dozen allspice berries and white peppercorns, a bit of mace, and a slice or two of Spanish onion. Cook as gently as possible until tho rico can be readily sieved, tho onions and spices being first removed. Then return tho rice to tho pun, stir in a little more butter and half a gill of cream, withuniversal Cookery book. 100 more salt, if required; bring to the boil, and serve as a substitute for bread sauce with pork or poultry. (See also Vegetables and Scrap Cookery.) Cost, about 6d. If preferred, half stock (white) and half milk can be used for the rice; either way it is a cheap and good sauce, and the cream may be omitted for a very plain sauce. Robert Sauce.—Fry a heaping tablespoonful of minced onions with a bay-leaf, some crushed peppercorns, a clove or two, and half a tomato; when a rich brown add a pint and a quarter of Brown Sauce ; boil up, skim well, and simmer for ten minutes, then tammy or sieve the sauce ; put it back in the pan, with a good toaspoonful of French mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of French vinegar; re-heat, and serve. This is a good sauce for pork. Flavoured vinegars are sometimes added to this, and an in- creased quantity of French vinegar, reduced by boiling before adding it, is preferred by some. Roe Sauce.—Boil or fry the roes of any fish : both hard and soft roes can be used ; sieve them, and add a good seasoning of salt and popper, a little mixed mustard, and flavoured vinegar, or Fronch vinegar, brown or white ; stir two tablespoonfuls of the mixture thus prepared into a pint of plain White Sauce or Melted Butter, and serve with the fish from which the roes were taken ; or, if the roe3 are fried, make a brown sauce, by thickening some fish stock with brown roux or browned flour, and flavouring with ketchup or store sauce. To heighten the flavour of this, a few drops of essence of shrimps, an- chovies, lobster, &c., will bo found useful; or a small pat of sardine butter may be stirred in, or an an- chovy, boned and sieved. Schiller Sauce (German).— Mince two shalots, and brown thorn in one ounce of hot butter; add three ounces of preserved tamarinds, throe gills of nice brown stock (No. 4 would do, or clear stock, as No. 6, 7, or 8), some salt, peppercorns, a clove or two, and some browning; boil up and add a gill of claret, then stir in a tablespoonful of brown roux ; cook gently for a quarter of an hour, skim often, then strain, and serve hot with game, well hung mutton, venison, or beef. A good bunch of herbs should be fried with the shalots, or some herbs in fine powder may be put in the sauce. Sauce a la Boston.—Required : ono pint of Brown Sauce, one tabic- spoonful of smoked ham or tongue, grated, four ounces each of tomatoes and Spanish onions, a teaspoonful each of French mustard, anchovy essence, and pepper water, seasoning, and butter. Make the butter hot, slice and fry the onions a rich brown ; break up the tomatoes, add them with all the rest of the ingredients (ham excepted) ; cook until soft, skimming often, then add the ham, and rub all through a sieve after a minute's further boiling ; re-heat, season to taste, and put in a few drops of carmine and lemon-juice. This is a good sauce for grilled meat, game, or fish, and for made dishes of every description. Sauce a la Calypso. — Re- quired: four ounces of ripe black cherries, one ounce of sugar, three gills of Brown Sauce, one gill of claret, one tablespoonful of tomato pulp, salt, cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Pound the cherries, sugar, and tomatoes ; add all the rest, except the lemon-juice and cayenne; boil gently for half an hour, rub through a hair sieve, then re-heat and season, put in a few drops of carmine, and serve with any game or dark meat. Good stock from game, thickened with roux, can be used instead of brown sauce. Sauce a la Cardinal.—Re- quired : a gill of fish stock (No. 13), a gill of cream, half a pint of Creamy Bechamel, a teaspoonful of arrowroot, a pinch of cayenne and salt, and a pat of Lobster Butter. Cost, about Is. 3d-GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 101 Mix the arrowroot with the fish stock (cold), add tho cream and sauce, and stir to the boil; off the fire, put in the lobster butter and seasoning, with a lew drops of lemon-juice. Do not boil again, but let it stand a minute. There should be enough butter to give a rich colour and flavour. This is a very rich and delicious sauce; it may be served with whiting, brill, or turbot. (See recipes; also Scalloped Fish a la Cardinal.) Sauce a la Drusille.—Make a strong stock from the bones of any white fish, in the proportion of a pound to a pint of water; after straining, boil it down to a gill, and mix it with a gill of cream; bring to the boil, then thicken with half an ounce of arrow- root, and stir in an ounce of butter. Put in a saucepan a gill of white wine, with some parsley stalks, a sprig of thyme and chervil, and a few fresh leaves of tarragon ; boil until reduced to half the quantity, strain, and add to the sauce, with seasoning to taste— salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Sauce a l'Imperatrice.—Re- quired; a pint of creamy Bechamel, a gill of white wine, a gill of strong fish stock (made by boiling down a pint of No. 13 to a gill), two eggs, a small tin of preserved mushrooms, one ounce of arrowroot. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Put the mushroom liquor on to boil; when reduced to a gill or less, add the wine, and boil for a few minutes; add the arrowroot, and the mushrooms cut the size of a pea, then stir in the bechamel, and bring to the boil again. Boil the eggs hard, sieve the yolks, add them to the sauce off the fire, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and if re- quired, a pinch of salt. The whites of the eggs are not used. Another way.—Add the yolk of a raw egg, in addition to the other in- gredients. This is a very excellent sauce for white fish of all sorts. (.See recipes.) Sauce ala Juliette Mixapint of Sauce Svprkmp, or VkloutE, with a teaspoonful each of lemon-juice, tarragon vinegar, and the liver of a boiled fowl rubbed through a sieve; add a teaspoonful of chervil, blanched and chopped, and half tbo measure of shredded tarragon; re-heat, but do not boil again. Serve with boiled chicken,veal, sweet- breads, &c. Except for chicken, no liver is required. Cost, about Is. 3d. Sauce d, la Matelote. - Re- quired : half a pint of Brown Sauce. or brown stock thickened with roux, a tablespoonful of chopped onions, a bunch of herbs, some mushrooms, chopped, about the same quantity as the onions, a few cloves and allspico berries, salt, black peppercorns, half a glass of any red wine, a little lemon- juice and anchovy essence, a gill of fish stock from bones, or the liquor from boiled fish, salt to taste. Make some butter hot, an ounce or more, fry in it the herbs, onions, and mushrooms; add tho fish stock and brown sauce, with the spices; boil up for a few minutes, then sieve it; return to the saucepan, with tho wine, lemon- juice, and anchovy essence, bring to the boil again, season, and lay in the fish. This is the foundation for rich fish stews. There are many ways of making it; the foregoing is suitable for eels and various other fish. Some- times button mushrooms and onions are separately fried, and added; and wine is used in much greater propor- tion : claret or port, equal in measure to the stock, or equal measures of red wine, brown sauce, and good fish stock being the proportions frequently used. If mushrooms are not at hand, good ketchup must be used, or tinned mush- rooms will do ; mushroom powder will also serve, but tho flavour of mush- rooms is almost indispensable to a good matelote sauce. Sauce de Madere.— Mix ono gill of Madeira with three gills of Brown Sauce ; add a few drops of cayenne vinegar, a pinch of salt and sugar, and a tablespoonful or two of clear brown stock or gravy; boil up102 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and skim, and serve hot. Cost, about Is. Gd. Good sherry can be substituted, and is almost as good. Half an ounce of glaze improves tho sauce. Sauce de Mentlie.—Required: two gills of brown stock, made from mutton bones (it should be of good flavour and free from fat), a table- spoonful of finely chopped mint, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, three or four lumps of sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, the same measure of light wine, half a lemon, rind and juice, and someroux. Mix the mint and hrown sugar; rasp the lemon with the loaf sugar until the yellow part of the rind is absorbed ; add to the rest, and pound in a mortar, putting in the vinegar by degrees, also the juice of the lemon strained, then the stock; cover, and leave for a few hours for the flavours to blend. Then put all in a small saucepan and bring very gently to the boil; much of the excellence of the sauce depends upon this ; add enough brown roux to bring to the consistence of good cream, with salt and pepper to taste. Servo hot with lamb or mutton. This will commend itself to people who enjoy a mint flavour, but find ordinary mint sauce too sharp. As in mint sauce, the exact proportions of sugar and vinegar can be deter- mined only by individual tastes. Sauce for Salmis.— Required: a pint of Brown Sauce, a gillof Fumet or Game {see Game), a glass of Madeira, a shredded shalot, two ounces of mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, seasoning, and butter. Melt the butter, fry the herbs, shalot, and chopped mushrooms a rich brown; add a little orange-juice and a tablespoonful or two of brown stock; boil gently for ten minutes, then add the brown sauce, fumet of game, and seasoning of salt, black pepper, and cayenne; boil and skim as long as necessary, put inthewine,andwhenhot, strain into a saucepan. It is then ready for any kind of game. {See recipes.) Another way.—Put in a glass of port instead of Madeira, or claret if pre- ferred, with a teaspoonful of red currant jelly and the same of tomato catsup. The other ingredients are the same as above. Another way.—Mix together a gill of brown stock (No. 5), a gill of brown sauce, and half a glass of claret, with a teaspoonful of orange-juice. Add a few olives, turned and blanched (see Olive Sauce), boil for twenty minutes very gently, season to taste, and serve. Sauce for Salmon.—This is particularly good with grilled salmon. Mix a tablespoonful each of tomato con- serve, fish stock, Brown Sauce, sherry, and tarragon vinegar; add a tcaspoon- ful each of essence of anchovies and French mustard, with a little salt, boil up, and serve. Sauce Herb ace.—Required : a pint of Melted Butter, a saltspoonful each of chopped fennel (or parsley), thyme, and bay-leaf, with a good pinch of basil and marjoram. Put the herbs in the sauce, and simmer for a few minutes; then add a few drops of tarragon vinegar and a sprinkling of chopped tarragon, with a little cayenne vinegar, and salt to taste. A pinch of celery salt can be put in with advantage. If dried herbs are used, the quantities must be in proportion to their strength; they should be boiled in a small quantity of stock to extract the flavour, and the strained liquor from them be added to the melted butter, with a little chopped fresh herb or cooked green vegetable (spinach, lettuce, cress, celery tops, beet leaves, &c., may all be thus employed), and seasoning to taste. Sauce Herbac6 au Parme san.—Required : half a pint of stock- made from salmon bones, a gill of white wine, a gill of cream, seasoning, roux, and grated Parmesan, with a little herbal vinegar to flavour. Boil the stock and wine down to half a pint; add the cream and roux to bring it to the consistence of good cream; add a tablespoonful of Parme-103 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Kin, with a teaspoonful of chopped chervil and half as much tarragon, just before serving. This is excellent with salmon, gr illed, fried, or baked. Sauce Italienne (Brown).— Mix a pint of Brown Sauce, a gill of brown stock, and a gill of light wine, and bring to the boil. Put in a sauce- pan a tablespoonful of chopped onions or shalots, with twice the measure of chopped mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and an ounce of butter; fry for ten or twelve minutes, keeping them deli- cately coloured; add the contents of the first pan, boil and skim for about ten minutes, then season to taste; take out the herbs, and put in a teaspoonful or more of finely chopped parsley, with a few drops of herbal vinegar. If no fresh mushrooms are handy, use tinned ones. Sauce Italienne (White).— Cook the mushrooms, Ac., in butter without browning (button mushrooms are required for this), then add the wine, and boil for a few minutes ; then stir in a pint of creamy Bechamel, boil gently, and skim well; season to taste, and add a little parsley last thing. If tinned mushrooms are used, boil down the liquor until well reduced, and add to the sauce. A few drops of essence of nutmeg or a pinch of ground mace improves it; parsley stalks cooked in the butter will give a good flavour, the leaves to be reserved for chopping. Sauce Jaune.—Required : half a pint of creamy Bechamel, the yolks of two eggs, half a glass of light wine, a tablespoonful of orange - j uice, cayenne, a pinch of celery salt and ground mace, a saltspoonful of French mustard, and colouring. Put the wine, mustard, and orange- juice in a stew-pan, and bring to tho boil. In another pan mix the bechamel and the yolks of the eggs, first well beaten; stir in a bain-marie until at boiling point, then take both pans from the fire, and let the contents cool a little; add the wine, &c., very gra- dually, to the sauce and eggs, mixing well; re-heat in tho bain-marie, and serve hot. The colouring should bo stirred in last, sufficient to give a rich yellow tinge. This may be served with boiled fowls, rabbits, or veal, or with fish ; it is a very excellent sauce, but needs careful manipulation. It may be made with melted butter or white sauce, if cost is an object; or half bechamel and half milk may be used. Sauce Jubilaire.—Mix in a saucepan a gill each of stock (No. G or 7), Brown Sauce (No. 2), good sheiry, and mushroom liquor; add half an ounce of glaze, a tablespoon- ful of Fumet of Game, and the same measure of minced olives, first blanched ; simmer and skim for a few minutes, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve with game. Sauce Maitre d'Hotel.— Required : three-quarters of a pint of any good white sauce, Bechamel, Yeloutk, &c., two ounces of butter, tho juice of half a lemon, a pinch of soluble cayenne, and a tablespoonful of parsley, finely chopped. Cost, about Is. Make the sauce hot; stir in tho butter, a little at a time, off the fire, also the other ingredients, and serve at once, with calf’s head or any white meat, or with fish. In the latter case the foundation should be a white sauce or melted butter, made from fish stock ; or, fish bones may be boiled down to a strong stock, which can be added to tho becham el or other sauce used. [See also MAiTRE d’Hotel Butter, page 111.) Sauce, Mandarins’.—Mince a capsicum, pHt it in a saucepan, with the seeds, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, a gill of claret, half a gill of mushroom ketchup, and the juice of a lime ; put in a good pinch of salt and a teaspoonful each of brown roux and extract of meat. Bring gently to tho boil, then put ou the lid of the pan, and leave tho sauce to blend for a quarter of an hour; re-hoat tho sauco with a drop or two of cayenne vinegar or cayenne popper to suit the palate, and serve with game of any sort,104 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. first straining it from the seeds. This may also be served cold. Sauce, Piquant. (See Caper Sauce, Brown.)—Make a pint of sauce as given in that recipe, and add to it a good tiblespoonful of chopped French gherkins, with their vinegar, a teaspoonful each of orange-juice and tamarind chutney, and twice that measure of sweet mango chutney. Another way.—Add to the caper sauce a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, the same of cucumber vinegar, and a teaspoonful of hot pickles, cut up very small. Another way.—This is mild. Put a pint of Brown Sauce in a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of walnut ketchup, and half that measure of pickled walnuts, with a teaspoonful of onion vinegar. Another way.—Instead of walnut ketchup and walnuts, use mushroom ketchup and pickled mushrooms, with a little of their vinegar. Another way.—This is commonlv called pickle sauce, and is useful for grilled meats, game, or fish of the rich kind, as cels, salmon, mackerel, and the like. To make it, mince a good tablespoonful of that favourite pickle known as piccalilli: mix with it a tablespoonful of brown sauce and the same measuro of stock, or the gravy of a joint. Stir altogether in a saucepan until quite hot, and serve. This is appetising, and is generally liked. Sauce, Soublse. — Required : half a pound of onions, a gill of cream, a gill of white stock from veal or chicken bones, half a pint of Thick Bechamel, salt, and peppercorns, about half a dozen. Cost, about lOd. Blanch the onions a3 in Onion Sauce, slice them, and boil them in the stock until nearly done : then add the bechamel, and cook until tender; sieve the sauce, and re-heat it with tho cream, add seasoning to taste, and serve. Another ivay.—Boil the onions (after blanching) in water until they can bo sieved, then add them to half a pint of Ore vmy Bechamel, Sauce Supreme.—Required: a strong white stock, as for bechamel, but flavoured with only half the quan- tity of vegetables therein given. Boil it down until reduced to a fourth—a quart to half a pint—-with two ounces of button mushrooms, most carefully washed and cut up small. Mix with this, after straining, half a pint of good cream, first brought to the boil, and thicken with white roux ; it should resemble creamy bechamel; boil and skim for ten minutes more, and at the instant of serving add half a teaspoon- ful of lemon-juice. This, as its name implies, is the creme de la creme of sauces, although it is quite common to meet with a plain white sauce bearing the same title. It is expensive and rich, and only needed for high-class dishes, such as delicate entrees of chicken, sweetbread, &c. It lends itself readily to decorative pur- poses, and when well made is delicious; but strong stock and good cream are essential, and although some cooks make it by adding a gill of cream to three gills of stock, others use more cream than stock; hence there are various ways of making it, but the proportions above given, half cream and half stock, will be found rich enough for any purpose, and when a cheaper sauce is required it will be better to select some other kind than to attempt to rob sauce snprime of its characteristic richness. Sauce Veloute.—Put some white stock (as No. 9) on to boil until reduced to three-fourths the quantity; a few pieces of fresh vegetables should be added to freshen the flavour; then strain, and when cold, skim, and for a quart of sauce put a pint and a half of stock to half a pint of boiling cream ; boil it up with white roux—it should be as thick as very good cream—and just before serving put in a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Make this the same con- sistence as creamy bechamel, unless required thick, then it can be reduced by boiling, but never put the cream in imtil ready to serve, This sauce should | be velvety.105 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Sauce Verte.—{See Sauce Hek- bacb.)—Make the sauce in the same way, adding green colouring last thing; or make a puree of the herbs, the kinds being varied according to taste, and pass them through a sieve; then add them, with the colouring, to the sauce; any white sauce may be used as a basis, and in addition to the herbal flavour, there should be a pleasant acidity; any of the flavoured vinegars (see recipes) can be used for the purpose; lemon-juice and white wine are also employed. Serve with white meats which re- quire zest or piquancy. (See also Green Butter, in Garnishes). Sauce Volaille.— Required : a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, the same of lemon-juice, French vinegar, and white wine, a gill of white stock, from the bones of a fowl {see No. 9 for the method of making it), seasoning, cream, and herbs as under. Cost about 9d. Boil a pint of stock as above down to a gill; put the wine, vinegar, &c., in a stew-pan to reduce one-half; mix them with the stock, and boil up, then add a gill of hot cream (off the fire), previously boiled up with a teaspoonful of white roux. Put in a dash of cayenne, salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, blanched and chopped finely. Serve with chicken, veal, &c. Shrimp Sauce.—For a plain sauce, add a gill of picked shrimps to three gills of Melted Butter or plain White Sauce; season to taste, and put in a few drops of anchovy essence or shrimp essence, and a saltspoonful of lemon-juice, with a pinch of salt. Another way.—Boil the shells of the shrimps with any fish bones that are handy (see Stock No. 15) ; add a gill of good Melted Butter or creamy Bechamel to.thesame measure of stock, then put in the shrimps as above, with a little lemon-juice, cayenne, and anchovy essence; no salt is required. If melted butter is used, stir in a r>* tablespoonful of hot cream last thing, This is richer than the first recipe. Serve with white fish of any kind, (See recipes.) Another way. — Shrimp paste oi shrimps potted in butter may bo used, together with a few drops of colouring, and a little essence of shrimps or lobster. Prawn* Sauce, from tinned prawns, may he made by adding melted butter, &c., as in the first recipe above. Tammy, Use of.—(See page 83.) Tartare Sauce.—[A new Ameri- can recipe.]—Required: one table- spoonful of white wine vinegar, half the quantity of lemon-juice, a salt- spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, a pinch of grated lemon-peel, a feaspoon- ful each of Worcester sauce and mush- room ketchup, a quarter teaspoonful of French mustard, two ounces of butter, and half a glass of light wine. Put all the ingredients in a basin, and set it over boiling water until the contents are heated. Put the butter in another vessel, and make it hot in the same way ; remove the basins, and stir the butter by degrees to the other ingredients, incorporating them well; keep the basin in the water while mix- ing (as the sauce must not ho again heated), and as soon as ready, servo with mackerel, salmon, eels, &c., or with any fish except delicate white. After melting the butter, skim it, and pour it off gently from the sediment. Tomato and Chestnut Sauce. —Required: a gill each of white wine, white stock, from veal or chicken bones (see No. 9), chestnuts, sieved, and tomato pulp. Cost, about 9d. Pass ripe tomatoes through a hair sieve, and boil some chestnuts; peel and sieve them ; add the puree to the tomatoes, and mix the wine and stock in very gradually. Put the whole in a saucepan, and stir to the boil; add a teaspoonful of corn-flour mixed with milk, salt, and white pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of white sugar; boil for a minute or two, then add a little carmine colouring.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 106 This is a very nice sauce for veal, turkeys, fowls, rabbits, &c. It may be varied in several ways : by using cream instead of stock, or bechamel, or thick white sauce can be used, then no arrowroot or com-flour is needed; the wine can be reduced or omitted if a little lemon-juice be added. Tomato and Curry Sauce.— (See recipo for Curhy Sauce) ; add to half a pint a gill of tomato pulp or con- serve, with a tablespoonful of tomato vinegar and a teaspoonful of mango chutney. Servo with meat or fish, hot or cold. Tomato chutney may be added to curry sauce by way of flavour; but the above is recommended as a good mild sauce, tho curry flavour being modified by the tomatoes. Tomato Sauce, Brown.—Re- quired : one onion, one pound of ripe tomatoes, ono ounce of butter, a gill of Brown Sauce, a gill of stock (No. 4), a slice or two of carrot, a pinch of castor sugar, salt, and cayenne, .and a salt- spoonful of mignonette pepper. Cost, about Is. Melt the butter, add the sliced onion and carrot; brown well, then add the tomatoes broken up, with the stock and seasoning; boil until the whole can be sieved, then return it to the pan with the brown sauce ; give a boil up, season to taste with more salt; a squeeze of lemon-juice is an improve- ment. Add a few drops of carmine. For a cheaper sauce, use a plainer stock, omit tho brown sauce, and thicken with browned flour; add a little colouring. Tomato Sauce for White Meat. — Required: ingredients as above, substituting white stock for brown, and white sauce (bechamel or plain white sauce) for brown sauce. Melt the butter, cook the vegetables in it without browning, add the stock, and proceed as above directed. For a plain sauce, the meat liquor will do, if for serving with plainly-boiled meat; but for rabbit, fowl, &c., good white stock, as No. 9, is required. Another way.—Cook the tomatoes in butter until they can be sieved, then add an equal measure of good Melted Butter. White Sauce, Plain. — Re- quired: two ounces each of flour and butter, a pint and a quarter of milk, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook well, then the milk gradually; stir to the boil, cook for a few minutes, season, and serve. Suitable for arti- chokes, cauliflower, celery, vegetablo maiTOws, &c., and forms the basis of other sauces. Formasking vegetables, make it thicker by reducing the milk to a pint. A bay-leaf boiled in it is an improvement. White Sauce, Richer.—Make as above, using a gill of cream in place of a gill of the milk, and stir in an ounce more butter last thing, with a drop or two of any herbal vinegar or lemon-juice. This is useful for vege- tables, fish, &c., and furnishes a basis for other sauces, as onion, celery, or fish saucos. White Sauces, Rich, Salt in. —In the making of all good sauces for which white stock is required salt must be added with caution, because, owing to the boiling down of the stock to a third or fourth its original quan- tity, a concentration of all the materials used in making it is obtained; there- fore, when complete, the sauce will probably be quite salt enough : in any case, seasoning must be put in in minute quantities at first and at tho end of the operation. Wines for Gravies and Sauces.— (See page 84.) Yacht Sauce a la Monica - Required : half a pint of milk, a table- spoonful of grated ham, tongue, or beef (smoked), a teaspoonful each of curry- paste and rice-flour, a saltspoonful of saffron-powder, a green capsicum cut small, a large onion chopped, salt and107 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. cayenne to taste, a tablespoonful of lime-juice, and half a gill of cream. Cost, about Sd. Mix the curry-paste, rice, and saffron with the milk, put in a pan with the ham, onion, and capsicum, boil until soft, then rub through a sieve. Put back in the pan, with seasoning to taste, the cream and lemon-juice, and a little more hot milk to make up the quantity. Serve with any kind of.cooked vegetables or fish ; or re-heat cold fish in the sauce, which is very appetising. Yacht Sauce a la Norah — .Required: a pint of brown stock, as No. 4, a tablespoonful of brown roux, the same measure of Worcester or other good sauce, mushroom ketchup, and lime- or lemon-juice, an ounce or two of grated ham, and a Spanish onion of medium size, salt and pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful of soy. Make a little butter hot, slice the onion and fry it brown, add all the other ingredients, and boil until the onion is pulpy; then sieve the sauce, re- boil it, and use it for re-heating cold fish, game, or meat. It is a good sauce for serving with smoked salmon, dried haddock, &c., or with eels. Zouave Sauce.—Required : half a pound of onions, half a pint of tomato puree, half a pint of Brown Sauce, a tablespoonful each of tarragon vinegar, chilli vinegar, and French vinegar, and seasonings as under. Mince the onions, fry them lightly in hot fat, drain them, and lay them in a clean stew-pan, with the tomato puree, brown sauce, and vinegar; bring to the boil, and skim so long as the fat is thrown up ; then add salt to taste, a little French mustard, and enough “ Tabasco pepper sauce ” (sold in bottles) to suit the palate. If pro- perly made, this is a sauce of good flavour, and will bo sure to please any whose tastes are “somewhat Indian.” Next stir in a tablespoonful of Oriental chutney (see Store Sauces) and the same measure of sultana raisins, picked and cut into quarters. Simmer until the onions and raisins are tender, adding a little brown stock (common bone stock will do) from time to time, to prevent the sauce becoming too thick. Finally, lay in any white meat previously cooked—we may instance calf’s head, feet, veal, rabbit, and tripe; put the cover on, and leave the pan near the fire (but take care that the sauce is below boiling point) for twenty minutes or so ; and after dishing the meat give the sauce a boil up. For the tomato puree, if fresh tomatoes are not handy, use canned ones, rubbing them through a sieve ; or the bottled pulp or conserve is still better. Spanish onions are best for this. English ones, if used, must be scalded, or the quantity may bo re- duced a little. COLD (SAVOURY) SAUCES. (See also Salad . Dressings, in Salads.) GENERAL REMARKS. . V ith the increasing number of cold dishes there follows naturally an increased demand for cold sauces; likewise, as adjuncts to hot meats, iced sances are just now regarded as the proper thing, though this may be but a fleeting fashion. In the following recipes a suitable accompaniment to almost any dish may be readily found ; while from each one detailed, others may be as readily evolved; for the food adjuncts of the present day. in the shape of relishes and condiments, afford ample scope for variety.of flavour. In addition to the following sauces, it will bo noticed that many of thoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 108 so-called hot ones are equally palatable when cold; and such are indicated under their respective headings. With special reference to the iced sauces, we would point out that almost any cold sauce may be iced, if sufficiently rich ; it is. of course, obvious that some kinds could not be frozen successfully. A dish with an iced sauce would, however, be out of place in a meal other than one of all-round excellence, aud to serve a common sauce in an iced condition would be courting ridicule. In the matter of simply cooling a sauce, many ways are open; a simple, but effectual one is to soak a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the vessel, renewing the operation as the cloth dries ; or, the sauce-boat may be set in a bowl of cold water with a lump of salt in ; or better still, in a basin of rough ice aud salt, or in a refrigerator. We would add, in conclusion, that be the method what it may, let a cold sauce really be cold, in the strict sense of the word; and from the homely pat of butter (long regarded as a suitable concomitant) to the most elaborate sauce of the iced variety which may be served with hot meat, whenever it is put on the dish byway of garnish, serve the dish the instant after the addition. For the method referred to the chapter on Ices. Bretonne Sauce.— Required: a gill of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, the same of French mustard, a saltspoonful of English mustard, a tablespoonful of grate,1 horse-radish, a few drops of onion vinegar and tarragon vinegar, and the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon. Cost, about 5d. Mix tho horse-radish with the mustard and sugar, add the lemon- rind, then the vinegars gradually, mixing well. This may be bottled; it is an appetising sauce for cold meat or fish. Burette Sauce.—Required : a tablespoonful of soluble cayenne pepper, the same measure of salt, a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, a glass of port, the strained juice and grated rind of a large lemon, a tablespoonful each of mushroom juice and Harvey sauce. Cost, about 7d. Mix the dry materials thoroughly; add all the liquid ingredients, cover, and leave for a few hours. Serve with cold meat. This is a very piquant sauce, and will not suit ordinary palates. It is an improvement to set the vessel containing the ingredients in boiling water until the contents are of freezing iced sauces the reader is hot, then to set aside in a cool place until wanted. A small quantity of the above will give zest to many other sauces, and may be added to gravy for devilled meats, &c. Chaudfroid Sauce, Brown.— Required : a gill of strong aspic jelly, half an ounce of glaze, a gill of Bkowh Sauce, a tablespoonful each of sherry (or Madeira) and tomato conserve, or the pulp of a ripe tomato. Put the ingredients in a saucepan (the glaze being first cut up small), stir to the boil, then skim, and simmer until the sauce is reduced by a third ; set aside, and use when cool for masking (see Entrees), after tarnmying in the usual way. There are many ways of making the above, so far as the flavourings are 1 concerned; the basis, however, must be a rich gelatinous sauce that will j stiffen as it cools; for instance, sup- ' posing no aspic jelly (or not sufficient), some good clear stock, stiffened with gelatine, and flavoured, could be sub- stituted ; or supposing no brown sauce, a little more tomato conserve and glaze, with a small quantity of brown stock or gravy, thickened withGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 109 roux in the usual way, must be used. Then the weather must be taken into consideration, and the nature of the dish. If for masking cutlets or other dishes, the chaudfroid need not be so thick as when used for lining a mould for dishes which have to be turned out. Chaudfroid Sauce, White.— Required: half a pint of Thick BEchamel, half a pint of strong aspic. This must be very pale (see Gaulishes), and half a gill of cream. Put altogether in a saucepan, boil and skim until reduced nearly a third, tammy, and put aside until cool. Another uay. — If wanted very white, use a gill of thick cream and a gill of sauce supreme, in place of the bechamel above. If not thick enough for any particular purpose, reduce it by further boiling; or add a little iiinglass or gelatine dissolved in enough milk to cover it, but take care to boil up and tammy after such an addition; if simply stirred in, the mixing would be incomplete. {See remarks on B nowx Chacdfhoid, above.) For green or pink chandfroul, it is only necessary to add a little of the usual colourings; for yellow, some paste or liquid colouring can be used; or for some dishes the yolk of an egg or two, beaten in off the fire after the sauce has boiled, will give the required tinge. These sauces are suitable for masking purposes generally, i.e., for soles and other white fish, salmon, lobster, and chicken, turkeys, and white meats of all sorts. Cream, Anchovy. — Required : three anchovies, an egg, a gill each of cream and aspic jelly, two tablespoon- fuls of salad oil, cayenne, nutmeg, colouring, and lemon-juice. Boil the egg hard, put the yolk in a basin; wash, bone, and pound the anchovies with the egg, seasoning as above, and the oil; stir in the aspic, cool but liquid, and the colouring ; rub all throngh a sieve, and mix with the cream, first stiffly whipped; then set by to cool. Add the lemon-juice just before serving. Cream, Aspic. — Required : a gill of whipped cream, a gill of aspic, a little cayenne, flavoured vinegar, and chopped fresh herbs to taste. Mix the cool aspic, just liquid, with the seasoning, &c., and add carefully to the cream. This is used chiefly for garnishing cold dishes. If for fish, use fish aspic, for poultry, pale aspic; and for dark meats, brown aspic. {See Garnishes). Cream, Chervil. — Required : equal parts of cream, aspic, and Be- chamel or Sauce Supreme ; add lo a gill of each a good pinch of salt, a table- spoonful of chopped chervil, and a few drops of white vinegar and lemon- juice, with a suspicion of fresh thy me, finely chopped, if obtainable. Blend the ingredients thoroughly, and serve with chicken or veal. Cut lemon should be handed with it. Cream, Crayfish. — Required : a third of a pint of cream, the same measure of rich Melted Butter made from fish stock, a few drops of car- mine, and a large tablespoonful of Cray-Fish Butter ; or use “ Krebs butter,” sold in tins: a very good preparation. Whip the cream stiffly, stir the cray-fish butter into the melted butter, add a little colouring, and mix alto- gether. Serve with cold fish of the white class. Cream, Lobster. — Substitute Loiister Butter for that of the preced- ing recipe ; or, if that is not at hand, use the essence of lobster, sold in bottles, to which a few drops of anchovy essence is a great improvement; add a little lobster coral or coralline pepper, with a few drops of carmine. A sauce similar to the foregoing can be made from shrimps, using the essenco to flavour, and putting some of the shrimps in the sauce; or it may bo made from prawns. The foundation saueo should be white, and the prawnsUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 110 cut into half inch lengths; the tinned fish answer for this, and to the sauce a little shrimp essence should he added. Hong Kong Sauce.—Put into a howl the yolk of a fresh egg; add to it the yolk of another egg, boiled hard, a tcaspoonful of herbaceous mixture (see Seasoning), the same of French mustard and essence of anchovies, and a saltspoonf ul each of salt and celery salt. Mix with the hack of a wooden spoon very thoroughly, then add by degrees a gill of salad oil, as if for mayonnaise; next put in half a gill of claret, a teaspoonful of pepper-water, a tablespoonful of lime-juice, and the same measure of lemon pickle. When well mixed, add more seasoning, salt, cayenne, or mustard, if liked, and set on ice before serving. Last of all put in a toaspoonful of sugar. This may he sent to table with almost every kind of fish, flesh, or fowl; it also blends well with many kinds of salad. Use a fresh lime whenever obtainable; failing that, the best juice, pure, un- sweetened. A variation of this excellent sauce consists in the substitution of tamarind chutney for lemon pickle. Or a pre- paration called tamarind zest may be usod. Horse-radish Sauce. —Grate a stick of well-washed horse-radish as finely as possible ; to three tablespoon- fuls, add half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, four table- spoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful each of mustard and castor sugar, and a few drops of cayenne vinegar. Cost, about 6d. Blend the horse-radish with the seasonings and cream, and add the vinegar last, of which a smaller pro- portion will be more acceptable to many palates ; for a milder sauce, the sugar should be increased or the mustard reduced, or it may be omitted. For a less expensive sauce, use milk in place of cream, and a teaspoonful of sweetened condensed milk. Horse-radish Sauce, Rich. —Beat a gill of cream until quite stiff; mix with it a couple of table- spoonfuls of horse-radish (use a fine grater in preparing it), a saltspoonful each of salt, sugar, and mustard, both French and English, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and a few drops of cayenne vinegar. Cost, about 8d. To improve the above, rasp a lump of sugar on the rind of an orange until a fourth of the yellow part is removed; add it with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve. Another way.—For a very superior sauce, use, for the foundation, half a gill of thick Mayonnaise and half a gill of thick cream; finish off as in the above recipe, the hard-boiled egg being added or not, according to taste. Lax Sauce. —Take from a tin of lax enough to fill a table spoon after chopping ; use it with the ingredients given in the recipe for Cream, Cray- Fish ; add colouring to give a pink tinge, and serve with cold fish or with hot fish, as grilled salmon or haddock, fried eels, &c. Lisbon Sauce.—Peel and slice a large Spanish onion, cut it small, then pound it with the undermentioned ingredients : a teaspoonful each of salt, sugar, curry-paste, and mignonette pepper, half a teaspoonful of French mustard, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a tablespoonful each of tomato pulp and salad oil. After the whole have become thoroughly blended, add half a gill of French vinegar and a glass of claret; stir thoroughly, and leave for a while before serving. This sauce is very appetising, inex- pensive, and generally useful for all sorts of dishes. Lorraine Sauce.—Required: a quarter pint of pure tomato conserve, half a glass of sherry, half a gill of brown stock (No. 6, 7,_ or 8), the same measure of liquid aspic, a teaspoonful each of onion vinegar and herbal vinegar, a little salt, sugar, mignonette pepper, and colouring.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Ill Mix the whole well together, and serve with fish or meat. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (or Butter).—Required: butter, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, in the following proportions : two ounces of butter, two teaspoonfuls of parsley, half a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, a pinch of salt, and a suspicion of cayenne. The butter, parsley, and seasoning should he worked well together with a spoon in a basin, and the lemon- juice (or white vinegar) added gradually. Thus "made, it can be served with steaks, kidneys, &c., and with various kinds of fish, but sometimes a grate of nutmeg is added; and if for serving with eels or salmon, a morsel of finely-chopped onion, first scalded and dried, may be put in, hut it must be so fine as to be almost lost in the sauce. Whether laid on the dish or placed on the meat or fish with which it is served, it should never be added until the dish is ready for table. Mayonnaise Sauce. — Re- quired : the yolks of two raw eggs, three gills of olive oil, a good pinch of salt, and a dust of white pepper, a dessertspoonful each of tarragon and white wine vinegar, half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, half a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a saltspoonful of English mustard, in the dry state. Add cayenne to taste. Put the yolk3 of the eggs in a basin; add all the dry condiments, and stir in the oil, drop by drop, with a wooden spoon; when quite thick, add the vinegar and lemon-juice drop by drop, and set in a cool place. This 3auce has innumerable uses, and various additions are made accord- ing to the dish for which it is required: such will be detailed under their respective headings; and when “ thick mayonnaise” is referred to in any recipe, the foregoing is the kind of sauce intended to be used, as it forms the basis of the sauce for all tho fish, flesh, fowl, &c., which can be desig- nated mayonnaise. Mayonnaise Sauce (Hints on).—Have a cold basin in a cold place, and if very warm weather, set it on. ice while mixing. Use good oil, and add it literally drop by drop, especially at starting; this is easily done by holding the forefinger of the left hand over the neck of the bottle, leaving room for the sauce to just run out in drops. Stir continuously ; it is no use to pour in some oil, and then stir; the two processes must go on simultaneously. After the sauce is thick, and the oil all worked in, do not thin it by adding a lot of common vinegar; use the best, getting a maximum of strength with a minimum of fluidity; the best for tho purpose is “ white wine,” and a few drops of chilli vinegar may take the place of the dry cayenne. If these rules are followed, the, sauce may be made ns thick as creamed butter at any time of the year. If it has to stand long before using, and the weather is very hot, two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic to three gills of sauce will prevent it running; and this ad- dition should be made when the may- onnaise is used from a bag and pipe for garnishing pur-poses. In some cases, even more aspic will be needed than given above; a tablespoonful to the gill may be wanted, if the dish has to stand a while after it is ornamented. Mint Sauce.—Take some fresh young mint leaves, wash them, and dry them in a clean cloth; do not squeeze them, or tho flavour is lost; chop them as finely as possible, and add two tablespoonfuls of castor or finely- sifted loaf sugar to three tablespoon- fuls of the mint. Mix them together in the tureen, then add tho vinegnr, about five tablespoonfuls, and stir well; it should be pulpy, and made, if possible, some hours before using. The common faults of mint sauce are excess of vinegar, deficiency of sugar, and coarsely-chopped mint. A tureen of vinegar, with a dash of sugar, and a few pieces of mint floating on the112 UMlVEliSAt tiOOKKltY BOOK. surface, is often met with, hut it is not mint sauce. Mint Sauce, Superior.—Re- quired : mint and sugar as above; after chopping, pound them in a mortar, with a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, then add gradually some French vinegar, five to six tablespoon- fuls, and let it stand as above directed. A little water is sometimes added to reduce the piquancy, in place of a fourth, or thereabouts, of the vinegar. Olive Sauce.—Blanch and cut up enough olives to fill a tablespoon ; add them to two or three gills of Mayonnaise and whipped cream mixed, with a little mignonette pepper and a teaspoon ful of lemon-juice. This must be cooled thoroughly, and may be served with many dishes, fish, poultry, or game. Piquant Sauce for Salmon. —Required: a gill of olive oil, one tablespoonful of pickled gherkins, the same of French vinegar, a teaspoonful each of French mustard, tarragon vinegar, and anchovy essence, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and two eggs. Cost, about 9d. Put the yolks of the eggs, raw, into a bowl, add tho oil, drop by drop (see Mayonnaise), and when mixed add the rest of the ingredients; the gher- kins should be minced finely, and mixed separately with the anchovy and mustard, before the vinegars are added; the whole must be carefully blended with the beaten oil and eggs ; and if not ready for the sauce as soon as it is made, set it on ice. It must be made in a cool place. If possible, set the bowl on ice while mixing the ingredients. Poivrade Sauce. — Required: two tablespoonfuls of Brown Sauce, twice its measure of salad oil, a table- spoonful and a half of French vinegar, and half a tablespoonful of tan-agon vinegai-, a shalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of salt, cayenne, black pepper, and white sugar, a teaspoonful or thereabouts of chilli or cayenne vinegar, and a few drops of herbal vinegar. Mince the shalot, pound it with the dry seasonings ; add the brown sauce and oil, and mix thoroughly with a whisk, then put in the vinegars by degrees, whisking well for fi few minutes. Another way.—Use claret in place of half the French vinegar, and add a half teaspoonful of French mustard and cucumber vinegar. These sauces are very good with bacon, calf’s head or feet, &c. Potsdam Sauce.—Put a gill of game stock in a basin; mix in a des- sertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of port, a tablespoonful or two of good aspic, cool and on the point of setting, salt and cayenne to taste. Whip the whole for a few minutes, and set on ice for a short time before serving. This is useful for cold game. By using stock from venison bones, it is a good sauce for venison or well-hung mutton. Queens Own Sauce. — Re- quired : two ounces of fresh butter, two eggs, the j uice of half a lemon, salt, a gill of cream, cayenne, and a teaspoon- ful of herbal wine (see Seasoning). Cost, about 9d. Boat the butter to a cream, add tho eggs, yolks only; beat again, whip the cream up stiffly, mix altogether in a jar, set it in boiling water over the fire, and thicken like custard; add the seasoning lightly, and set aside to cool in the tureen in which it will bo served. Just before serving, dust tho surface of the sauce with lobster coral and chopped parsley, or tarragon and chervil. This is a very good sauce, and its uses are manifold ; it is recommended to those who cannot take sauces con- taining oil. Sardine Sauce.— Required: half a dozen sardines, a gill of aspic, a gill of cream, a gill of fish stock, seasoning as under. Wipe the sardines, bone thorn, put113 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. the bones in the fish stock, with a bit of bay-leaf and parsley, a strip of lemon-peel, and half a dozen white peppercorns; boil for half an hour, strain the liquor through a cloth, and mix it with the liquid aspic. Cut the sardines up small, or sieve them ; mix altogether, add a little seasoning, and serve. If boneless sardines are used -—and they are less trouble—ordinary fish stock, boiled down as above, must be used. The cream must be stiffly whipped. Hulf cream and half melted butter can be used, if more convenient. Sauce a l'Alceste.—Required : half a teaspoonful each of French mustard, white sugar, and English mustard, a saltspoonful each of celery salt, grated orange-peel, and tarragon vinegar; a tablespoonful of horse- radish vinegar, an egg, and two gills and a half of stiffly whipped cream. Boil the egg hard; put the yolk through a sieve to the cream. In another basin mix the mustard, sugar, salt, and the liquid ingredients, very thoroughly; add the cream, and blend the whole perfectly, then put the mixture in a mould, and set in an ice cave until stiff. Another way.—Use a tablespoonful of grated horse-radish instead of the vinegar. A very shallow border mould should l>e used for the above. Sauce a la Barbe.—Required; cream, mustard, salt, sugar, and tarra- gon vinegar as above; a large ripe tomato, carmine, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound the tomato with the whole of the ingredients (cream excepted), pass the mixture through a hair sieve, add the whipped cream, and colour the sauce a pale pink. Fill some small paper ot china cases, and set them in an ice cave until stiff; or use a border mould ; turn out on a cloth to drain, then dish it on a lace paper, and fill the centre of the mould with plainly- dressed salad. Sauce a la Calcutta.—Re- quired : a gill of cream, a gill of strong white stock, a toaspoonful of curry paste, half the quantity of pepper water (see Seasonings), a little salt, lemon-juice, and French vinegar, a teaspoonful of clear Indian pickles, finely chopped, and an egg. Boil the egg hard, pound it with the curry and salt, add the pickles, vinegar, &c., and the stock, which should be on the point of setting. Whip the cream stiffly, stir it in, and blend thoroughly. Put in a little yellow colouring, and freeze in small moulds. Sauce a la Dresde.—Required : a giU of brown sauce, a gill of mayonnaise, half an ounce- of glaze, a tablespoonful of shorn-, the same of tomato pulp, a teaspoonful each of grated horse-radish and French vinegar, a saltspoonful each of French mustard and chopped fennel, salt to taste, an egg, and a large tablespoonful of strong aspic jolly. Into a basin put the blown sauce, tomato pulp, sherry, glaze (dissolved in a little stock), half the mustard and vinegar, and a pinch of salt. Into a second basin put the mayonnaise, horse-radish, the rest of the mustard and vinegar, the fennel, and egg, first boiled hard and sieved, both yolk and white. The aspic should be cool, but not set; put half of it into each basin, then fill little cases with the sauces in alternate layers, or mould them in layers in a shallowmould or Neapolitan ice box, and when stiff cut the sauce in squares, or any desired shape, and dish on a lace paper. Very small louche cups, or other fancy moulds, may bo used for this. In turning out, drain on a cloth before dishing. Sauce a la Guernsey.— Required : a gill each of tomato con- serve, aspic jelly, and mayonnaise, a good pinch each of salt, sugar, and cayenne, a half gill of strong stock from chicken bones (it must be a firm jelly when cold), a few drops of lemon-114 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. juice and tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of thick cream. Mix the conserve with the liquid aspic . and chicken stock, add the seasoning, and whip all up thoroughly; then stir in the cream and mayon- naise, colour a pale pink, mould and freeze as before. If liked, colour part green, and mould in alternate layers. Serve as above directed. Sauce au Diable.—Required : four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a teaspoonful of mustard, the same of sugar, half as much salt and mig- nonette pepper, a small onion chopped, the j uice of two limes, and six table- spoonfuls of claret. Cost, about Is. 2d. Boil the eggs hard, put the yolks through a sieve with the dry mustard, mix them in a bowl with the oil, little by little, the onion, and dry condi- ments, then stir in the claret and lime-juice by degrees; sot aside in a cool place for an hour or two, and serve with any cold meat or fish. If liked hotter, put in cayenne or cayenne vinegar, pepper water, or chilli essence; the latter is made by steeping chillies in wino until it becomes sufficiently flavoured. Another way.—Mix cold gravy or brown stock with half its measure of vinegar, or half claret; add salt to taste, a little mustard, cayenne, and hot chutney. Sauce Verte.—Blanch and pound (after squeezing them well from the water) a bunch of parsley, a few sprigs of chervil, and a little tan-agon, enough to fill a tablespoon after pounding and sieving. Mix with the puree a gill of rich melted butter, add an equal measure of thick whipped cream or mayonnaise, with a little salt, mignonette pepper, a teaspoonful each of lemon-juice and cucumber vinegar, and green colouring to give the re- quired tinge. Another way.—Boil some cucumber in water, press it through a sieve, and to two tablespoonfuls of the pulp add an equal measure of mayonnaise and whipped cream; season as above, colour, and put in cither of the above- named herbs; if only parsley is used, add some tarragon vinegar or a little herbal vinegar. Serve as soon as mixed. Another way.—Peel and slice some raw cucumber, and pound it in a mortar; to each tablespoonful add a teaspoonful of onion, scalded and chopped, and a few capors, with their vinegar; rub all through a sieve, add salt and mignonette pepper, and a little colouring as above, with cream and mayonnaise. Another way.-—If for fish, add some anchovy or shi-imp essence, and tho yolk of a hard-boiled egg to the in- gredients given in the foregoing recipe. These sauces can be served with grilled fish, poultry, &c., as well as with many cold dishes. Sauce Rafraichissante. — Required : the juice of two fresh limes, a glass of claret, a tablespoonful each of French vinegar, horse-radish vine- gar, and onion vinegar, two shalots, chopped until almost reduced to powder, a tablespoonful or two of small, quickly grown mustard and cress, a little sugar, salt, and enough mignonette pepper to season plea- santly. Put the chopped shalots in a bowl, with the mustard and cress; mix the liquid ingredients, add them, and season to taste ; then put in a drop of garlic vinegar, or first rub the bowl with a morsel of garlic, to give a twang without imparting a pronounced flavour. This should he mixed some hours before using, and kept as cool as possible. The sugar used may be as much as a teaspoonful, if a very sharp sauce is not liked; but it should he piquant, and only a small quantity is required to give zest to a dish of meat or fish. It is a good sauce for hot meats, grilled or broiled, or for kidneys or grilled fish. Tartare Sauce.—Required: aGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 115 shalot, a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, half as much anchovy essence and chopped chervil, a little salt and shredded tarragon, and half a pint of thick mayonnaise. Cost, about Is. Mix the whole lightly, taking care that the shalot is very finely chopped; a small pickled onion, well drained and chopped, is sometimes used in place of the shalot. Another way.—Add to three gills of mayonnaise a good teaspoonful each of French pickled gherkins and capers, cut up small, a little of each of the vinegars, salt, and mignonette pep- per, with any other addition in the form of herbs, or a dash of herbal vinegar. To a sauce made in the latter way a couple of filleted anchovies, cut in dice, can be added, with a saltspoonful of French mustard. These sauces have many uses, being served with all sorts of fish of the oily class, in addition to cold dishes. Vinaigrette Sauce.— Required: six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one table- spoonful each of tarragon vinegar and onion vinegar, a pinch of cayenne, salt, and mignonette pepper to taste, and a little brown sugar. Put the oil in a basin, add the seasoning, then the vinegar, gradually. Serve with brawn and other cold meats, such as calf’s head, feet, &c., or collared ox cheek. Another way.—This is suitable for hot meats, veal, &c., or for boiled vegetables. Omit the onion, vinegar, and sugar in the above recipe, and add to the other ingredients a teaspoonful of white vinegar and a little chopped parsley, or chervil and tarragon. SWEET SAUCES. GENERAL REMARKS. Very little need be prefaced to this section. Xot only is the variety of these sauces here given greater than can be found in the usual run of cookery books, but most of them are new, all are, or may be, suggestive of many others; and while a few of the richer ones can only be indulged in by the few, the majority are economical; of their goodness we will leave the reader to judge. The cold sauces will perhaps prove the greater novelty to some people, particularly the “ hard sauces ” of American origin; and those who desire to follow the dictates of fashion in the matter of food not less than raiment may be interested in learning that a cold sauce is now considered a more suitable adjunct to a Christmas pudding than the hot concoctions of olden times; but fashion is so fickle, that before very long people may perhaps be eating hot sauces with ices ! With regard to cold sauces and the manner of cooling them, we need only refer to the Introduction to Cold Savoury Sauces. The hot sauces need no explanation. (See remarks on wines and spirits under Jellies.) Almond Sauce.—Make a pint of arrowroot sauce [tee recipes), or the same quantity of plain custard, and flavour to taste with essence of almonds; a lump or two of sugar rubbed on the peel of a lemon, and stirred in the sauce, improves it con- siderably. Almond Sauce (Rich).—Re- quired : a pint of medium or rich custard [tec Custaiids), a few drops ofUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, 116 ratafia essence, four ounces of sweet almonds, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a tablespoonful of milk. Cost, about Is. 5d. First blanch the almonds, and pound them smoothly (see Pastry), pour the tablespoonful of milk over, and leave them to stand for an hour or so ; then add the boiling custard. If re- quired hot, re-heat the sauce in the bain-marie, and add the brandy and essence off the fire ; or for a cold sauce, add the last-named ingredients just before serving. The almonds may be bought in the ground state, then they only need infusing in the milk, but the sauce must be passed through a tammy. AlmondandCocoa-nut Sauce. —Required : one gill of cream, one ounce of butter, two eggs, yolks only, a glass of brandy, half an ounce each of cocoa-nut and ground almonds, and a little milk. Cost, about Is. Infuse the nuts in the milk for some time, without actually boiling, then add the rest of the ingredients, and thicken as directed for custard; stir in a few drops of almond essence, and serve with rich puddings. Amber Sauce.—Required: a pound of apples, weighed after peeling and coring, the rind and juice of a lemon, two eggs, two ounces of butter, four ounces of moist sugar, a wine- glassful of ginger syrup, and some yellow colouring. Cost, about Is. Bake the apples in a covered jar, with the lemon-rind and juice and the sugar ; when done, pass through a hair sieve, then add the eggs, well beaten, the butter, just dissolved, the ginger, and enough paste or liquid colouring to impart a rich tint; beat well, re-heat, but do not boil, and serve with any plain pudding, cereal, suet, &c„ or with boiled rice, macaroni, or any kind of batter or other light pudding. It is a very good sauce, and inexpensive. Another way.—Omit the ginger syrup, and add pineapple-juice, apricot syrup, or some orange marmalade; if the last-named is added, use less lemon- juice. The rind may go in as before, and it should be grated, though if time is an object it may be peeled very thinly, but the flavour is not so good. Amber Sauce (Rich).—Mix a gill of orange marmalade, the grated rind and juice of an orange, the juice of half a lemon, and an ounce—more or less—of loaf sugar ; stir to the boil, add half a glass of raisin wine, and serve over or round a hot pudding. (See recipes.) Angel Sauce.—Required: a tea- cupful of apricot marmalade, a table- spoonful of brandy, the same of sherry, an ounce each of almonds and pistachios, a dessertspoonful of noyeau syrup, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Blanch the almonds, dry them, and chop them into pieces the size of split peas; bake them on a tin in the oven until golden brown, add them to the marmalade, set it in a pan of boiling water to liquefy, then put in the flavourings and the pistachios, first blanched and chopped finely. This is a very delicious sauce. It may be served hot or cold, with Angel, Alma, Little Coburg, and any similar puddings, or with various creams and pancakes. (See recipes.) Apple Sauce.—This is especially suitable for serving with Apple Char- lotte. It is also referred to in the chapter on Pastry. Put in a stew-pan half a pound of apples, peeled and grated-— they must be weighed after grating; add a little water. The kind of frui$ must be considered: very juicy apples will need but little, some sorts will take nearly a gill; put in a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, and twice the measure of the juice, with loaf sugar to sweeten ; boil to a pulp, then beat the sauce well for several minutes with a whisk; put it back on the fire, and melt in it a small jnr, about four to six ounces, of apple jelly, then pour it round the Charlotte or other pudding, Paradise Pudding for in- stance.117 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Apricot Sauce.—Required : half a pint of tinned apricots and their juice, measured together, the rind of half a lemon, a few drops of essence of ratafia, a gill of water, a little colour- ing, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and sugar if required. Put the fruit in a saucepan with the water, the lemon-rind in strips, and the juice; simmer until it can be passed through a hair sieve, add the sugar, and re-heat, then put in the colouring and essence. If the apricots are in heavy syrup, very little sugar, if any, will be wanted. If in juice, one or two ounces will bo needed. Serve with Apkicot Pudding, or any similar kind ; or when cold the sauce is delicious with cereal creams of any sort. Apricot Sauce (Rich).—Put as many apricots as may he required in a saucepan, first taking out the stones and dividing them into quarters. Just cover them with cold water, and add loaf sugar, in the proportion of a pound toa pound of fruit; simmer gently until they can be rubbed through a hair sieve, then put them back, with the kernels, blanched and shredded, and a tablespoonful of sherry or brandy to half a pound of apricots. Add a drop or two of noyeau essence, or a tea- spoonful or more of liqueur, or a table- spoonful of noyeau syrup; re-heat, and serve hot or cold. Arrowroot Sauce.—Required : one ounce of arrowroot, a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, sugar, and flavour- ing to taste. Mix the arrowroot with some of the milk to a paste; boil the rest of the milk, add it, and boil the sauce for a few minutes, then stir in the butter and sugar, and add almond essence or other flavouring, off the fire. Arrowroot Sauce (Clear).— 1 sc one ounce of arrowroot to half u pint each of home-made wine and water, with a little sugar. Boil the water and arrowroot, then put in the wine, and re-heat the sauce. For other methods, see Corn-flour Sauce. Banana Cream Sauce.—Re- quired : four bananas, ono ounce of corn-flour, half a pint of water, a quarter of a pint of cream, sugar, rose- water, and a grate of orange-peel. Cost of bananas, variable, from Id. to 2d. each. The fruit must be ripe, but sound ; peel it, and rub through a sieve, or heat it to a pulp in a basin. Mix thc.com- flour smoothly with cold water, add the half pint of water, boiling, stir over the fire until it boils, and cook for five minutes; then add it gradually to the banana pulp, off the fire, beating well. Put in sugar to sweeten, from one to two ounces, with a tablespoonful of rose-water. Heat the cream, and add it to the sauce; serve at once, without re-heating. Two ounces of butter can be used in place of cream. This is a good cold sauce ; when to be thus served, set it aside to cool, on ice if handy, and stir in the cream, whipped stiffly, just before serving. Banana Sauce (from dried bananas).—Put the dried fruit in a potato steamer, and steam it until soft, then cook it in a little butter, pulp it, and finish off as above directed. Cost of fruit, variable. Bavarian Sauce.—Required .- half a pint of double cream, half a gill of maraschino, half a glass of brandy, two to three ounces of loaf sugar, and a teaspoonful of strained lemon-juice. This is one of the best of the cold sauces, but care is needed, and it must be made as described, each ingredient being added in the order named. Set a large basin on ice, put in the cream, and whip it to a stiff mass, taking (arc it does not turn to butter; then stir in the sugar lightly, next the brandy and maraschino very gradually, then the lemon-juice drop by drop. Keep on ice, or in a refrigerator, until the moment of serving. When making any rich cold sauce, of which cream forms the foundation,118 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and. to which lemon or other acid is added, blend them as above directed; add no sugar until the cream has become stiff, and do not beat after the sugar is put in. Attention to these apparently trifling details would pre- vent many failures and much waste of material. Bermuda Sauce.— Required: a pint of juice from red or black currants, raspberries, cherries, or strawberries— currant and raspberry juice mixed is perhaps the best for the purpose—loaf sugar, arrowroot, and brandy. Dissolve as much sugar as is re- quired in the j uice, about half a pound ; the fruit is to be treated as if for jelly, and the juice drawn off in the same way. Mix an ounce of arrowroot with cold water, add it to the syrup, and stir all to the boil, then put in the brandy, unless preferred plain. This is an excellent sauce for many puddings, both cold and hot, and is wholesome and cheap. It is especially recommended with steamed batter and all light puddings, souffles, &c., and with cereal creams of all sorts; or with a Gateau of Rice, Semolina, &c. Bertranda Sauce.—Put four ounces of sweet almonds in the oven after blanching and chopping them; when a good brown colour, pour over them a little milk, and set them by the fire to infuse for an hour or so, then strain off the milk, and add enough boiled custard to makeup a pint; add a little brown colouring and some ratafias, about two ounces, crushed and put through a fine sieve, and a little essence of almonds, with a .teaspoonful of brown brandy. This may be served hot or cold. It is a suitable accom- ■ paniment to Little Brown, Fio, and other Puddings. Blackberry Sauce.—This is a favourite almost everywhere, and very wholesome, and there are various ways of making it. For a .plain sauce, make a tureen of Melted Butter or Corn- flour Sauce, and add some bottled blackberry syrup; or, in the fruit season, some juice, drawn off as for making jelly. Or, dissolve some jam or jelly for use in the same way : if jam be used, it must be strained or sieved to free it from the seeds. For a rich sauce to be served cold, good cus- tard should form the foundation, and blackberry brandy be used to flavour it. Brandy Sauce (Plain).—Add a glass of brandy to a pint of Melted Butter or plain custard. Serve hot or cold. Brandy Sauce (Rich).—The equal measures of rich melted butter and brandy; add the spirit off the fire, heat, but do not boil again. Another way.—Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs, a gill of cream, and a gill of milk (see Custards) ; add a few lumps of sugar, and, off the fire, a gill of pale brandy. If liked, lemon- rind grated or Vanilla sugar may be added to this to heighten the flavour. Another way.—Boil together for ten minutes a gill of water and four ounces of loaf sugar; skim a few times, take it from the fire, and stir in a glass of brandy. These three sauces are suitable for rich plum puddings. They may also be served with many other kinds of puddings, both hot and cold ; for tho latter the third and fourth recipes are most suitable. Brown Bread Sauce.—Take a slice of bread (made from finely-ground whole-meal) a few days old, rub it through a wire sieve, and add a pint of boiling milk to half a pint of the crumbs. Crush an ounce of - ratafia biscuits to powder, sieve them, stir them into the bread and- milk, then cover, and leave until cold. Make a pint of rich custard, set aside to 'cool, then stir in a wineglassful of pure maraschino liqueur. Put the bread and milk in a pan, and stir it to the boil; let it cool again, then mix it with the custard, after sweetening to taste, and last of all add a gill of cream. Serve vory cold; iced if possible. _ ■ This is a very, delicious sauce-; it is119 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. mainly intended for serving with fruit compotes. It is some little trouble to prepare, but is well worth it; we may mention that white bread sauco similarly made is a different thing altogether, and any attempt to sim- plify the foregoing or to alter the method of making it will result in dis- appointment. The custard should be made by the recipe for Rich Custard, Ux flavoured, in Custards. Cherry Sauce.— Required: a pound of ripe red or black cherries, a gill of water, half a pound or more of loaf sugar, a few drops of ratafia essence, colouring, and a tablespoonful of sherry. Cost, about 8d. Wash and pick the fruit; put it in a stew-pan with the water, bring to the boil, and add the sugar ; cook until all can be sieved, then return the sauce to the pan, with the wine, and the kernels blanched and shredded. Serve hot or cold. Another way.—To obtain a sauce of fuller flavour stone the fruit at first and crack the stones, then boil them with the kernels for an hour in a little water; strain off the water into the sauce, and add the kernels, pounded or cut up. A pinch of powdered cloves may be added, and if the cherries are black, port may be substituted for sherry. Either way it is a good sauce. Cherry Brandy Sauce.—Make a gill and a half of rich Melted But- ter; add to it a few drops of essence of cloves and a glass of cherry brandy, put in a few drops of colouring, and serve with any rich pudding, of which Metz Puddixg is a type. (See also Gateau de Fruits.) Chestnut-Flour Sauce.—Re- quired : two ounces of chestnut-flour (sometimes called meal), a pint and a half of milk, a little sugar (about an ounce; but the flour varies in sweet- ness), a pinch of salt, and flavouring to taste.^ Cost of flour, uncertain. I rench faring de Chataiyncs is sold at a shilling or fifteen pence per pound ; but Italian flour, recently imported, and sold loose, is from fourpencc to sixpence only. • Blend the flour with cold milk to a paste; add the rest of the milk, boiling, then simmer from ten to fifteen minutes, stirring almost all the time, sweeten, and flavour with lemon-rind, or spice essence, or ground nutmeg or cloves; very little is required. Another way: Richer.—Use a pint of milk, and when the sauce is cooked add a gill of hot cream and the well- beaten yolks of two eggs, then thicken in a double saucepan or bain-marie. Vanilla flavouring, a few drops, may be used for this. If to be served cold, beat the cream up stiffly, and add it last thing. Chocolate Sauce.—Required : three gills of water, two ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of good chocolate, flavoured with vanilla (fail- ing this, use a little vanilla essence), an ounce of arrowroot, corn-flour, or rice- flour, and a tablespoonful of cream. Cost, about od. “ Soluble chocolate ” is best for this, but ordinary cake chocolate will do. Mix it, after breaking it up, to a smooth paste with a little of the water, boiling, add the rest of the water and the sugar, boil up; then mix the arrowroot with cold water to a paste, add it, and boil for a minute; stir in the cream, and serve. If rice-flour is used, cook it for ten minutes. Colour with coffee blown (see Ices). Chocolate Sauce (Rich).— Required : three gills of milk, one gill of cream, one egg, three ounces of good chocolate, two ounces of sugar, half an ounce of arrowroot, and vanilla essence. Prepare the chocolate as above, using milk instead of water; add the arrow- root, and beat in the egg off the fire. Beat the cream in ufter separately heating it, then flavour to tasto. The exact quantities of sugar and vanilla must be determined by the kind of chocolato UBcd; Bomo of tho very best is strongly flavoured with vanilla, and contains but little sugar. In nddition120 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK to tho vanilla, a pinch of ground cinnamon may bo (faded if tho flavour is likod. Claret Sauce.—Required : half a pint of good claret, two eggs, a tea- spoonful of rod-currant jolly, a few drops of essenco of cinnamon, cloves, or nutmeg ; one to two ounoes of loaf sugar, a teaspoonful of arrowroot, and a little water. Cost, about Is. Blond the arrowroot and water, add | a little of the claret, and stir to tho I boil; then put tho rest of the wine in j tho pan, with tho eggs, first beaten, and idl tho other ingredients. Whip tho sauce quickly until frothy and on the point of boiling, then pour it over a hot pudding. ..tnothrr way.—Use a tablespoonful of apple jelly (omitting the red-cur- rant), add, a glass of port, and proceed as above directed. This is a l'ich sauce. Climax Sauce (** Climax 1Yi>- lUNo).—Solve with it the following sauce : Mix togother a tablespoonful of lemon conserve (mo Lemon Cheese- cakbs in J'axtry), the same measure of tho crumbs of a sponge linger biscuit and lemon marmalade; add a table- spoonful of rum, and the same of sherry, cover, and set the pan in a warm place for a short time, then stir hi a quarter of a pint of rich melted butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and it teaspoouful of castor sugar; stir until quite hot, and serve. This sauce is equally good with other puddings, as Lemox or Ouaxge Pcodings, &c. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Required : the white part of half a cocoa-nut finely grated, water, sugar, cream, and a little essence of vanilla, or some rose-water or orange-flower-water. l’ut tho nut in an enamelled pun (see that no bits of brown skin are mixed with it); first cover it with cold water, and boil it softly for an hour, then flavour and sweeten to taste, and put in some boiling cream, or add some j of the milk of the cocoa-nut if very sweet and good ; boil again—it should I bo like thick cream—and sorve hot or cold. Another way.— Simmer the nut in its own milk with a little water, if required, then add a little cream last thing, and a well-beaten egg, with tho grated rind of an orange; beat hard for a minute after the egg is in. This is a very useful pudding sauce. Cocoa-nut Sauce from Desic- cated Nut.—Dried cocoa-nut may bo bought sweetened or plain; in either case it should be soaked for a short time in cold water before its conversion into sauce. It can then bo finished off in either of the foregoing ways. Tho best, qualities of the dried nut are decidedly preferable to a fresh nut of inferior quality ; they should never be used if rancid in the least degree. (See Cocoa-nct and Ouaxge Pudding) Coffee Sauce.—Required ; tho third of a pint of strong clear coffee, made as for Coffee Ciikam Ice or, if more convenient, coffee essence may be used ; four times tho usual quantity will be required. Mix with it two- thirds of a pint of custard (ere Rich Custard, Unflavouued), add a couple of ounces of loaf 'sugar and a good flavouring of vanilla, then stir tho mixture in the bain-marie until thick and at boiling point ; add half a gill of thick cream, and serve hot with coffee souffle, or cold with coffee and vanilla cream. Corn flour Sauce. For a plain sauce, mix one ounce of corn-flour to a smooth paste with cold water: first make a hollow in the centre of the fiour, pour in the water slowly, and stir with the back of a small wooden spoon : when free from lumps, add a pint of boiling water or milk, pour into a saucepan, and stir until it boils up, then simmer for five to ten minutes, and sweeten to tasto; add a little nutmeg or other spice, and serve with plain puddings. Anothtr tray.—Uso jam instead of sugar, or a little fruit syrup of any kind; or add, off the fire, a tew dropsGRAVIES AXD SAUCES. 121 of essence of lemons, vanilla, or any other well-known kinds. Make plain Akkowkoot Sauce in the same way. Cosmopolitan Sauce. — For this, live ingredients arorequired: viz., equal measures of port, brandy, red- currant jelly, raspberry vinegar, and rich melted butter. Put the melted butter in a saucepan, with the wine and brandy, add the raspberry vinegar, and take from the fire: melt the jelly, and stir it into the sauce, which will be found very good with hot puddings. Curacoa Sauce.—Make a pint of custard, medium or rich, and flavour it with a tablespoonful of curagoa liqueur, or use the syrup, increasing the quantity. Brandy is often added to this. It is suitable for serving with any pudding for which the same flavouring has been used. Currant Sauce.— Use red or black currants, in the way directed under Blackbekry Sauce. Diplomatist's Own Sauce.— Required : a pint of rich custard, a tablespoonful each of brandy and the syrup from preserved ginger, two tablespoonfuls of the ginger cut small, and a teaspoonful each of essence of vanilla and lemon-j uice. Let the custard cool, then add the other ingredients; leave until cold, then pour it round the pudding. (See Diplomatist’s Own Pudding.) German Pudding Sauce.— Required : the yolks of two eggs, a gill and a half of light wine, sugar to sweeten. Dissolve the sugar in the wine, heat it, and add it to the eggs, first tho- roughly whisked in a basin. Put the whole into a pan, and whisk over the fire until frothy and hot, but not quite boiling. The juice of half a lemon is sometimes added to this. Serve with German Pudding. Ginger Sauce (Plain).—Add a little grated ginger or a few drops of essence of gingCT to a tureen of melted butter, with a little lemon-juice, and sugar to taste.' Ginger Sauce (Rich).—Make a custard with a gill each of milk and cream and the yolks of three eggs. Stir in a gill of preserved giDger syrup, the grated rind of half a lemon, and half an ounce or more of castor sugar; serve with Rich Ginger Pudding. Another way.—Put a gill of Melted Butter (rich) in a saucepan, with half a gill of ginger syrup and a table- spoonful of orange-juice ; add a few lumps of sugar, stir to the boil, then put in a tablespoonful of ginger wine, raisin wine, or sherry. Hard Sauce, American.— Required : four ounces of butter, eight ounces of castor sugar, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a tablespoonful of lemon-j uice. Cost, about 9d. Put the butter in a bond, beat it to a cream, as if for making cakes, add the sugar, and beat hard for several minutes, then the wine and juice very gradually; when quite stiff, set on ico to cool; or put it in an ice cave for a short time. Another way.—Make as above, add- ing half a glass of rum and a table- spoonful of pineapple syrup in place of the wine and lemon-juice. Another way.—As above, with brandy and vanilla essence in place of the rum and pineapple. Another ivay.—Use butter and sugar as in the first recipe; add a quarter of a pound of red or black currant jelly and the juice of half a lemon; or reduce the sugar and increase the jelly. In cold weather the butter may be put in a warm basin, and the jar containing the jelly set in a pan of hot water for a short time. The blending of tho ingredients will be thereby facilitated. These sauces-are served with all sorts of puddings, both hot and cold, and with creams, blancmanges, &c. Honey Sauce.—This is made simply by adding a gill cf clear honey to a pint of melted buttor or corn-flour122 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, sauce. It may be served with many kinds of pudding. Imperial Sauce.—Required: a pound of French plums (Carlsbad, Imperial), a gill of water, a gill and a half of claret, a glass of port, a little spice if liked, and a grate or two of lemon or orange rind. Cost of plums, about Is. 2d. Simmer the fruit, water, and claret (sec Prune Sauce) ; when done, rub it through a sieve; blanch and shred the kernels, add them with the sugar and lemon-rind, or a teaspoonful of juice, and the spice—cloves, nutmeg, cinna- mon, or allspice; bring to the boil, then stir in the port, and serve hot or cold. (See Imperial Pudding.) For a better sauce, use three gills of claret; . instead of sugar some red- currant jelly may be added, a very rich and delicious sauce being the result. For a plainer sauce, use water only, or reduce the wines as desired. Jam Sauce (Plain).—Required: four tablospoonfuls of raspberry or currant jam (gooseberry, strawberry, or blackberry, may be used in the same way), the same measure of water, the juice of half a lemon, half a dozen lumps of sugar, a few drops of carmine, and a teaspoonful of corn-flour. Cost, about 4d. Mix the jam, water, and sugar, and stir until the mixture boils; mix the arrowroot and lemon-juice, add to the rest, stir, and boil a minute longer, then strain through a fine strainer, and add the colouring. This is a useful pudding sauce. For a better sauce, put in a tablespoonful of wine. Another way.—To a pint of plain Melted Butter add a teacupful, or thereabouts, of any kind of jam; if stonoless, it may bo sieved or strained or not, according to taste, but with stones it must be strained; if a red jam is used, a few drops of colouring will improve it, and a teaspoonful or less of lemon-juice brings out the flavour. Another way.—Use a sauco mado of corn-flour and water, one ounce to half a pint, with one ounce of butter stirred in; then add half a cup of jam. This is suitable for plain puddings for children’s dinners. Jelly Sauce, American.— Required : half a pound of red-currant jelly, the rind and juice of a largo lemon, a grate or two of nutmeg, a glass of wine, sherry or Madeira, and two ounces of butter. Cost, about Is. 2d. Cream the butter as if for cakes, add the jelly, with the grated rind and strained juice of the lemon, little by little, beat very thoroughly, and leave on ice until wanted. Serve with pud- dings : if with cold ones, place it rockily round them; with hot ones, servo in a separate dish. If required as an accompaniment to cereal creams, &c., this sauce makes a very pretty garnish, and should be used in the same way as whipped cream. Jelly Sauce, Economical.— A very simple sauco may bo made from any of the tablet jellies. Dissolve the tablet just as if for a moulded jelly, but reduce the quantity of water : i.e., from a pint tablet make half to three-fourths of a pint only. A small quantity of corn-flour may bo added to give body; it should be boiled up separately in a little water before adding it; a spoonful of jam, samo flavour as the jelly, is a further im- provement, and orange marmalade may be used with orange or lemon jelly. Serve with plain puddings, boiled rice, corn-flour, &c. Lemon Sauce, Plain.—Re- quired : one lemon, a gill and a half of water, two ounces of sugar, and a little corn-flour. This is very simply made. Put the sugar and water in a saucepan, add the strained lemon-juice, and boil for ten to fifteen minutes, then add the rind of the fruit, grated, and a teaspoonful of corn-flour mixed with cold water; boil a few minutes, and serve hot or cold.123 GRAVIES AND SAUCES, Orange Sauce can bo made thus, but less sugar is required. lemon Sance, Rich.—Re- quired : half a pint of rich Melted Butter, a tablespoonful and a half of lemon conserve (see Lemon Cheese- cakes), and the same measure of raisin wine or sherry, with a little sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon. Heat the melted butter, add the conserve and the other ingredients gradually; use as little sugar as possi- ble : the lemon flavour should not be destroyed. lime Sauce.—Pure lime-juice, a wineglassful or more, added to a tureen of melted butter, sweetened to taste, is a very pleasant sauce, and if honey is used instead of sugar it is greatly improved. This is suitable for plain suet puddings, dumplings, &c. liqueur Sauce. — There are various way's of making this sauce. The usual liqueurs employed for the purpose are curagoa, maraschino, noyeau, kirsch, and chartreuse (fox- others, see Liqueurs). It is impossible to determine exactly the required quantities: the strength varies much, and many British liqueurs are now sold—very good in some cases, but still they are but imitations of the genuine thing; perhaps maraschino is one of the best, as it is certainly' the most useful. We may, however, put down a half gill as an approximate quantity for half a pint of sauce, supposing rich melted butter to form the foundation, though a larger quan- tity would better suit the palates of many people. The sauce may also be made in the way given for Madeira Sauce, the liqueur being added, and the wine reduced in pro- portion ; or, an ordinary rich custard may be employed for the basis; off the fire, add from half to a gill of liqueur, and serve either cold or hot. One thing should he especially borne in mind ; these sauces are expensive, and to retain the full flavour, and so avoid waste, the liqueurs should not be boiled, or unduly heated; if they are, the quantity' needs to be doubled. Various recipes for home-made liqueurs will be found under their respective headings in a chapter on Beverages. Madeira Sauce.—Put the yolks of four fresh eggs in a good-sized saucepan, with a gill and a half of Madeira, add two to three ounces of loaf sugar, rasped on the rind cf a lemon to extract all the yellow; set the pan in the bain-marie or a large pan of hot water, and with a chocolat.c mill or an egg-whisk, mill or whisk the sauce until it is thick, then take it from the fire instantly', and serve with a rich pudding. It is very nice with Christmas Plum Puddings. Matrimony Sauce, Plain.— Mix a pint of Melted Butter, a heap- ing tablespoonful of brown sugar (or treacle), and lemon-juice; make hot, and serve. This is an old-fashioned sauce, best known in connection with y'east or suet dumplings. Another way.—Use jam instead of sugar, or honey or marmalade; and vinegar is often used in place of lemon-juice. In fact, the sauce is said to take its name from the combination of an acid and a sweet. Nonesuch Sauce.—Pick and stone half a pound of Muscatel raisins, cut them into quarters, and just cover them with boiling water; cover, and leave for an hour or two, then set the jar or basin containing the fruit in a pan of boiling water, and cook softly until all can bo passed readily through a sieve. Put the sauce in a saucepan, and stir in a teaspoonful of arrowroot mixed with rose-water to a paste, just bring it to the boil, then take from the fire instantly, and stir in a dessertspoon- ful of pale brandy. Servo with None- such Pudding, or any' good pudding, steamed or boiled. Orange Custard Sauce, Rich.—Required : a gill of cream, a gill of milk, half a gill of orange-124 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flower water, two eggs, two ounces of castor sugar, and a little “apricot yellow ” colouring. (See page 84.) Wipe the orange, grate the rind of half of it into a jar, add the other ingredients, with a few drops of vanilla essence, set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and whip the sauce until it thickens: it must then be taken from the fire at once; colour a rich yellow. The yolks of the eggs only aro needed; they must be very carefully separated from the whites and per- fectly fresh, or the delicate flavour of this sauce will suffer. Orange Sauce.—Required: threo large sweet oranges, a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, a gill of cold water, and some loaf sugar. Cost, about 5d. Wipe the fruit, rasp it with a few lumps of sugar to extract the yellow part of the rind, and put the sugar in a saucepan with the water; bring to the boil, then put in the pulp and juice of the orange—the pips and white skin being first removed; a spoon should be used for scraping out the pulp—and thicken with the arrowroot; add a little more sugar if required, boil up, and sorve. For a very superior sauce of this kind use the juice of an extra orange in which to dissolve the sugar (omit- ting the water), then proceed as above, and when the sauce is done rub it through a sieve, and re-heat it with a tablespoonful of maraschino or curaqoa. Orange Sauce, Plain—Put half a pint of plain Melted Better in a saucepan, with one to two ounces of sugar and the strained juice of a large orange; remove the yellow rind first, either by grating it or peeling, and cutting into very thin shreds; if the latter, boil it for half an hour in water to cover, and add to the sauce; if grated, stir it into the sauce with the juice. Serve with any plain pudding. The sauce in the previous recipe is only suitable for rich puddings or Orange Souffle, Peach Sauce (sec Apricot Sauce).—Make this in the same way, using peaches instead of apricots, and reducing the lemon by half, also the water; in addition to the flavouring, add a dessertspoonful of brandy. Noyeau is more suitable than almond flavouring, if at hand, and the kernels of the peach stones, skinned and poundeu, aro an excellent addition to the sauce. Peach Sauce from Fresh Fruit.—Divide the fruit, and lay it in a saucepan, with a gill of water and four ounces of crushed lump sugar to half a pound; add the kernels after blanching and shredding them, and boil altogether to a pulp, then rub the puree through a hair sieve; re-heat it, and add a tablespoonful of red- currant juice, from fresh or bottled fruit, or a little lemon-juice and a few drops of carmine, with more sugar if required, and if liked, a tea- spoonful of brandy. Serve hot or cold ; if the latter, set it on ice for an hour or so. Nectarines can be used in the same way. Poach sauce with raisins is a favourite sauce in America ; it is made by boiling stoned raisins in the juice of canned peaches until soft; it is then swoetened and flavoured, and served with or without the raisins, according to taste. Pineapple Sauce, Plain.— Put half a pint of the syrup from tinned pineapple into a stew-pan, with the juice of half a lemon ; mix a tea- spoonful of arrowroot with cold water, add it, and boil up the sauce; if not sweet enough, put in a few lumps of sugar; when dissolved, it is ready to serve. For a richer sauce, add a glass of sherry or half a glass of rum—the latter always blends well with pino- appl0_and a tablcspoonful of pine- apple jam, or the grated pine sold in tins.125 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Pineapple Sauce, Rich.— Put a small tin of grated pine in a saucepan, with a glass of sherry and half a glass of rum, a half teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half that measure of grated lemon-peel; put in a little castor sugar, about an ounce, stir just to the boil, and serve hot or cold. In the latter form this is particularly suitable for serving with blancmange, cereal cream, custard pudding, Ac. Prune Sauce.—Required : a pound of prunes, a gill of water, a gill of claret, sugar, and lemon-juice. Wash the prunes thoroughly, rub- bing them between the hands : they nr often very dirty; put them in a s.ucepan with the water and claret, bring slowly to the boil, and cook until they are half done, then add the juice of half a lemon, and cook until soft; pass the liquor through a strainer, and stone the fruit, rub the latter through a sieve, mix it with the juice, and sweeten with loaf sugar, from four to six ounces; put in a few drops of essence of nut- meg or any other spice, or a pinch of mixed spice, and stir the whole over the fire until it boils. Serve with boiled puddings, or, when cold, it is a wholesome and delicious accompani- ment to cereal creams, Ac. If the prunes are very dry, they may require from a gill to half a pint more water. For a plain sauce, all water instead of claret may be used. It is important that no sugar be put in at first, or the fruit will take much longer to soften, and be more difficult to sieve. As a great improvement to the above, we advise that the kernels be blanched and shredded, and ndded with the sugar. Punch Sauce.—Required: a gill of rich Mscran Butteu, a glass of sherry, half a glass of brandy, a lemon, loaf sugar, and two eggs ; a few drops of spice essence, if liked. Wipe the lemon with a doth, take off the yellow rind by rasping it with the sugar, from two to three ounces, put it in a saucepan with the wine and brandy, add the melted butter (pre- viously boiled in the usual way) and tho yolks of the eggs, well whisked; set tho pan in a bain-marie or another pan of hot water, and whisk tho sauce until thick and nearly boiling. Before adding tho melted butter, crush tho sugar or let it dissolve, and strain tho eggs after beating them, before adding them. This may be varied by using rum instead of sherry, or whisky instead of brandy ; or the melted butter may be increased and the eggs omitted if a plainer sauce is required : in that case it should just be stirred, not whisked, until hot. An orange may be used instead of a lemon. Serve with any good pudding. Punch Sauce 2To. 2.—Re- quired : a gill each of rum and Madeira, half a gill each of water and orange-juice, the rind of half an orange, from two to four ounces of loaf sugar, and a teaspoonful of arrowroot. Boil the orange-juice, sugar, water, and grated orange-rind to a syrup, mix the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it, and boil up ; put in the wine and rind, and thoroughly heat, but do not boil the sauce. Serve with Plum Puddings. (See also Souffles of various kinds.) Quince Sauce (from Canned Pruit).—Required : a tin of quinces, sugar, spice, and colouring. Cost, about lOd. Turn the quinces, with their juice, into an enamelled pan; add a little essence of any spice (cloves, cinnamon, mace, or nutmeg are most suitable), boil for a few minutes, then add as much sugar as may be required (some- times none is needed) ; when soft, rub all through a sieve ; re-heat, and colour tho sauce if necessary (it should bo a pale pink), and serve. The fruit makes a nice dessert dish. If a small quantity of sauce only is needed, put some of the fruit aside, for serving plain or with cream, and make sauce of the rest; it must ho boiled longer than usual, or, owing to the larger proportion of juice, it would be too thin.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 126 Canned pears make a good sauce of this kind. They are suitable for serving with cereal puddings or creams. Raspberry Sauce.-(& Blackberry Sauce, and substitute raspberries. A little colouring im- proves the appearance.) Rose Custard Sauce.—Make a pint of rich or medium custard (see Custard), add half a gill of rose-water, and colour it a pale pink; pour it round the pudding (see Pudding a la Rose), and sprinkle it with crystallised rose-leaves. The above is also suitable for serving with any light pudding or souffle. Royal Sauce.—Make a pint of rich custard, colour it a pale pink, and add to it a couple of tablespoonfuls of mixed crystallised fruits, which have lain in enough liqueur and sherry to cover them for several hours; they should be cut up very small, and the greater the variety both of colours and flavours the better. Set aside to coo], and place it on ice or in an ice cave for an hour, before serving with any rich cold pudding of the ordinary kind, or with Royal, or any other iced pud- ding. Royal Seville Sauce.—Re- quired : a quarter-pound jar of Seville orange jelly, a tablespoonful of orange brandy, a teaspoonful each of lemon- juice and castor sugar, and the same measure, or rather more, of maras- chino. Dissolve the jelly by gentle heat, add the other ingredients, stir for a minute without boiling, and serve. There are few better sauces than this, and it is equally good hot or cold. In the latter case, let the jelly cool before adding the spirit, and use double the quantity of brandy, sugar, and lemon- juice. (See Royal Sbville Pudding.) Sauce A la Comtesse.—Put in a lined saucepan a jar of green gooseberry jelly—about half a pound; as soon as dissolved, add to*’f a table- spoonful of pale brandy and a little colouring. Cut up finely some mixed green fruits, glace, not crystallised, angelica, almonds, &c., enough to fill a couple of tablespoons; stir them in, and leave the sauce a short time, then serve it hot with Pudding a la Comtesse, or any similar sort. Sauce a la Bamiette.—Re- quired : six bitter almonds, a gill of milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of two eggs, some chestnuts, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, and a little flavouring. Blanch the almonds, cut them up, and infuse them in the milk for a quarter of an hour; it should be set on the range to keep warm, but not to boil; strain it when flavoured nicely, add it to the cream, sugar, and beaten eggs, and stir in the bain-marie to thicken. Boil some chestnuts, rub them through a hair sieve, and mix a tablespoonful of the puree with the cream, &c., then stir in a little brandy or essence of vanilla; re-heat in the bain-marie, and serve hot with Pudding a la Damiette, or with a good chest- nut or potato pudding of the ordinary kind. (See recipes.) If the chestnuts are not obtainable, use chestnut-flour; it should be boiled in the milk, then added to the eggs, cream, &c. Sauce a la Duchesse.—Beat three ounces of butter to a cream, add three ounces of castor sugar, and beat for ten minutes or more, then add a wineglassful of orange flower-water, with half the quantity of capillaire syrup and a tablespoonful of sheiTy; put all in a saucepan, and stir until quite hot, then serve. This is a very rich sauce, only suit- able for high-class puddings. (See Duchesse Puddino.) The sauce may be served cold; it should be placed on ice or in a refrigerator. Sauce a la Victoria.—Set a jar of damson jam in a pan of boiling water; when heated and liquefied, pass it through a hair sieve, the syrupy127 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. portion only; put about a teacupful iu a saucepan, with half a glass of port and a few drops only of lemon- juice; as soon as hot, serve round a pudding of light batter, or any with which the rich colour of the sauce forms a contrast. (See Pudding a la Victoria.) A very good imitation of the fore- going may be made by the aid of the syrup from bottled damsons. It should be boiled up, with more sugar if required, and finished off as above directed. Sauce of Four Fruits.— Required : half an orange, half a lemon, a small teacupful of stoned raisins, quartered, the same measure of apples, first peeled, cored, and cut into dice, one pint of Melted Butter made thin, a glass of wine, sugar, and spice. First cut the rind of the orange and lemon into strips; boil them in a little water to draw out the flavour, add the water to the melted butter, put in the raisins and apples, then the orange and lemon, freed from skin and pips, and cut up like the apples, put in a little sugar, with grated ginger, and nutmeg or cinnamon to taste, and boil slowly ; the fruit should be tender, but not broken up. Last thing add the wine, and as much more sugar as may be required. This is an American sauce, and a very good one for many kinds of hot puddings. Another way.—Use pineapples in- stead of apples, and rum instead of wine; then the spice should be re- duced. Sovereign Sauce.—Take half a pint of jelly which has been clarified in the usual way, and coloured pink {»ee Jellies), and mix with it a quarter of a pint of good port : it must be clear : the dregs will not do for this sauce, it should be added when the jelly is coo), but before it begins to set. Put aside until cold, then at the moment of serving put in a small quantity of gold leaf. (See Jellies.) This is a suitable accompanir'f?* l-o various cold sweets. (See Sovereign Gateau, and other dishes in the Chapter on Sweets.) Tunis Sauce. — Required : a pound of good dates (if Tunis are not obtainable, use Tafilat), water, and a little lemon-juice. Cost of dates, 5d. to Sd. per lb. Cut the dates up small, put them with cold water to cover in a stew-pan, simmer them until quite soft, and then add the lemon-juice; take out the stones and serve hot or cold. This is a very delicious and whole- some sauce; sometimes grated cocoa- nut or ground almonds are put in, and wine is used to flavour; but perfectly plain, as above, we can recommend it. Vanilla Sauce (Plain).—Add essence of vanilla or vanilla sugar to some plain custard or melted butter; if the essence is used, about a tea- spoonful to each pint is required. Do not boil the sauce after adding the flavouring ; add it off the fire for hot sauce, and for cold ones let the sauce cool before putting it in : a saving of half the quantity will be thereby effected. Vanilla Sauce (Superlative). —Required: two eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of .brandy, a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, half a pint of custard, flavoured with vanilla pod (see Custards), two ounces of castor sugar, and a grate of lemon-j uice. Melt the butter in an enamelled pan : it must not discolour; stir in the sugar, using a wooden spoon; when thick, take the pan from the fire, and add the yolks of the eggs (first beaten well) by degrees, beating for some minutes. Then add the custard, which should be warm, but not hot, very little at a timo; thorough mixing is very necessary, and it is important that the custard be carefully strained. When quite amalgamated, cover, and sot aside until cold, then stir in tho brandy, vanilla, and lemon-peel, a pinch only. No sugar must bo used in making the custurdj tho aboveUNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 128 quantity is sufficient. Serve cold with rich puddings. Wine Sauce (Good). — Re- quired : three eggs, yolks only, a gill of sherry or Madeira, and a table- spoonful of castor sugar. Put the ingredients in a jar, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk until thick; it must not boil, or it will curdle. Serve with plum pudding, or any other kind that requires a nice sauce. Wine Sauce (Plain). — Put a gill of home-made wine (raisin, cowslip, &c.) in a saucepan, with a gill of water, add a little sugar and a tablespoonful of jam: apricot or good plum gives a nice flavour; stir just to the boil, and pour through a hot strainer round the pudding. Another way.—This is very plain. Make a pint of Melted Butter or Cokn-flouu Sauce ; add to it a glass of home-made wine and a little sugar. This may be served with plain pud- dings, dumplings, &e. Whipped Sauce (or Egg Foam Sauce) .—-Rasp a lemon with two ounces of loaf sugar, mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with a gill of cold water, put altogether in a good-sized saucepan, and add a large tablespoonful of rum, a saltspoonful of vanilla sugar, and tho whites of two eggs, with the yolk of one. Whip the sauce briskly until frothy, and serve hot. This is improved by boiling up the arrowroot and water, and adding the rest when somewhat cooled, then whipping as above directed.FISH. GENERAL REMARKS. No article of food is more abused in the cooking1 and more neglected as a standing dish than fish of every sort. The public .are not solely to blame, and the neglect is sometimes only apparent; for where there is the wish to purcliaso it. may happen that the supply is not forthcoming or the price too high. But this is not the place for argument with respect to high prices, due to “ rings ” and other causes; we can only hope that the dav is not far distant when the fish supply will be plentiful, and all may enjoy it as a daily article of food, instead of once a week, or in some houses once a month. One thing the public are guilty of—we have it on the authority of a leading fishmonger, in a (own which is rich in its fish supply, though far from the sea—and that is the unwillingness to try any variety which they may not before have seen, especially “ if they cannot be told how to cook it.” Wo hope that the recipes in this work, together with the description of many kinds, may be a help in this respect; and we would first advise that our readers familiarise themselves with the several kinds of fish, or rather tho several classes, and then with as many varieties of each class as possible; for it is only the knowledge of the sort—the composition, that is—that will guide one aright in the cooking. Suppose, then, we divide fish into classes, and give a little consideration to each. First, White Fish, because it is best known and most digestible, in fact, the only sort eaten by some; taking for examples whiting, soles, turbot, brill, plaice, flounders, haddock, and cod-fish—not an exhaustive list, only a typical one. Here, the first, on the list gives the most digestible; the sole (with smelts) ranks next, and cod-fish gives an example of the least digestible of this tribe, unless crimped and in fine condition : by which we wish only to say, that when a really digestible fish is needed, for an invalid or otherwise, the others rank higher than the cod. These arc all rich in nitrogenous matter, but poo’- in fat; and although they are proved by analysis to contain but little more water, weight for weight, than animal food, they are less satisfying; hence, supposing the price to be the same as meat, fish would be the dearer; relative nutri- ment must always be considered in estimating tlie cheapness, or otherwise, of any food. But with meat, say, at eightpence, and good white fish, say, at, fourpence, the economy of a fish dinner becomes apparent. Were it, however, even the same price, it should bo eaten, especially by brain workers and sedentary livers generally, if only for a chango. That fish is good for the brain is now a truism, but it seems due not to the possession of any special brain-restoring element., but rather to the fact that what is easily digested, and imposes no hard task upon or causes suffering to the rest of the body, is good, too,for the brain : this, in brief, is the tonclusion arrived at by those who aro best ablo to speak. r.130 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Now for the tests of the goodness of fish. Under various headings we have specified the tests for that particular sort. Bright eyes and red gills: yes, at one time these alone proved goodness ; now alas! the brightness and colour may be artificially produced, so more is wanted. Well, given firm flesh, which rises when pressed, and a pleasant odour, together with aforesaid brightness, there will be nothing the matter with the fish ; and, although fresh scales, uninjured, prove goodness, yet it does not always follow that loose scales are indicative of a stale condition, x-ough handling or packing may cause it. Turbot, cod, haddock, and soles, keep very well. Closely allied to sea fish are the mild kinds of fresh water fish. The muddy varieties, found in stagnant water, must be divided from the foregoing by a decidedly sharp line; however well cleaned and cooked, some people cannot eat them. As a rule, all fresh water fish from streams and pools with sandy, gravelly bottoms are more agreeable than such as are caught in dirty water, the flavour of fish being due both to its food and the state of the water in which it lives. Then come the oily fish, of which salmon, mackerel, eels, and herrings, are familiar types. The eel is richest in fat, then come mackerel, hori’ing, and salmon, in the order named. These are highly nutritious, when they can be digested; all the tribe have to be avoided by some, and others can indulge in one or two sorts, while the rest cause suffering; as a rule, they should never be given to invalids unless ordered. The same may be said of smoked, dried, and pickled fish. Sprats, sardines, and pilchards, must be classed with the above in point of digestibility. We must now turn to shell fish. There are two varieties : the crusta- cean and the mollusc. Oysters, cockles, mussels, scallops, and other fish enclosod between two shells, comprise the last named; while in the ci'ab, lobster, shrimp, prawn, eray-fisli, and craw-fish, we get well-known types of the former. We are beset with difficulties in attempting to deal with these; to repeat a tithe of all that has been said against them would be to condemn them absolutely. Here, indeed, every man must be a law unto himsolf : one can eat a lobster and suffer nothing; another fights shy of a shrimp; sometimes a shell fish of any sort (oysters excepted) causes pain if oaten with tea, and no discomfoi’t whatever if taken without liquid. The crab, from the foulness of its feeding, is the most likely to disagree; it has been called the scavenger of the sea, and should never be oaten by any one, except it is in very prime condition. The oyster stands alone ; when eaten raw it is highly digestible and nourishing. A mere crushing between the teeth is sufficient to place a largo part of the oyster beyond tbe need of further digestion, because it consists largely of liver, and this contains a ferment, which converts it into digestible sugar. “ Cooking, by destroying this feimient, aud rendering the body of the oyster hard, reverses the state of matters ”: so writes Dr. Bridger, in his valuable work on “ The Demon of Dyspepsia.” A last hint on sauces and other accompaniments to fish. It may bo laid down as a general rule that the white-fleshed, nitrogenous kinds need a fatty sauce, i.e., of the melted butter type: this is a scientific combination; while for the fatty sorts of fish tbe piquant varieties are suitable. Condiments in moderation are in such general demand, that itFISH. 131 may bo accepted that they aid the digestion as well as increase the palatability of the fisli. A table showing the best season for all sorts of fish will be found at the end of the book. Various recipes for Fish gouerally will be found in the following alphabet under that word, and many other recipes will be found scattered iu various chapters on reference to the Index. Anchovy.—This little tish plays a very important part in present day cookery. The best fish are small and plump; they are to be bought preserved in brine or oil; the former are more generally used. The bottle containing them must be kept corked, as the air spoils them. The scales should look silvery, and as there is a little knack required in filleting the fish, we will here detail it. First slide them out of the bottle carefully, if a fork is stuck in them they will most likely break ; keep as many as are needed, put the rest back, and see that the brine covers them. Wash away all the brine, any bits of salt, and a soft part near the breast (it is like the soft roe of a herring); nse several lots of water ; dry them in a cloth, then open them from head to tail: the fingers are best, but some manage them better with a knife. Then take hold of the bone, tail end, with the fin, and pull away the flesh, then take out the little fins. Each makes two fillets, and these can be cut again with a good knife in two or three strips. It is a mistake to wash the fish after boning. Gorgona an- chovies are the best. The island of Gorgona is the centre or head-quarters of the fishery. (For the various dishes made from anchovies, sec Hoks d’GSuvres and Savouries. ) In all the recipes wherein anchovies are named it is assumed that they will be washed as above, unless otherwise specified; if soaking is needed it will be indicated. [See also Sauces, Sand- wiches, Salads, &e.) Barbel.—This at its best is only pooT eating. A rich method of cooking is always recommended, and it is questionable whether so poor a fish is worth the trouble and expense some- times bestowed upon it. It takes its name from the barbs about the mouth. Wine is considered necessary in all Fxo. 19.—Barbel. dishes of barbel; a brown gravy mixed with port or claret is used to stew it, or sauces with wine are served with it when cooked in other ways. Bass.—This is a name given to many kinds of fish: a kind of perch is thus named, so is a large striped fish, foimd in North America ; but the real sea bass is said to he a small striped fish, of two to three pounds weight. This is never found in fresh water. The varieties are all cooked in one or other of the usual ways. The follow- ing is an American recipe. Bass Boiled.—Take as much water as would enable the fish, if alive, to just swim ;* add to each quart a teaspoonful of salt, a half cup of vinegar, a blado of mace, and a dozen • Tliis must bo left to the render's im- agination ; and we would remark that the drawn butter is the samo thing practically as our oiled or clarified butter. The water, prepared as above, is good for many oilier fisli: we can recommend it for fresli water fish of the coarse kinds.132 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. black peppers, with a sliced onion and a bay-leaf. Cleanse and sew up the fish in muslin, fitted to its shape; when the water is warm, put it in, and let it boil gently, skim well, and give from eight to twelve minutes per pound, according to thickness; boil faster at tho end than the beginning. When done, unwrap, and serve with white sauce of the molted butter kind, well flavoured, or with drawn butter, mixed with lemon-juice. Bream.—This is a good-looking but not very good-tasting fish. It is Fio. 20.—Bream. to be had in abundance in Cornwall. Of tho various ways of cooking, it is said to be best when boiled (sec below), hut it may bo baked, plainly, or first stuffed, and served with a good sauce. It is nice stewed, and a little white wine improves the gravy. Bream, Broiled.—Wash and dry tho fish inside and out, but do not take off the scales; season it inside with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne ; herbs may be added; then broil it for half an hour, or more, according to size, at a distance from the fire; it should be browned well, and floured slightly if it cracks. In serving, lift up the skin and scales, and take portions from the under flesh, which will be found juicy. Any white sauce or a brown piquant one may accompany it. Grilled in the same way, bream is better still; the fire must be clear and tho cooking gradual; but, although these are tho usual methods, we advise that the fish he first brushed over with a little oil, or clarified butter or drip- ping. Frequent turning is necessary, that it may be evenly cooked. Brill.—This is a good fish; it is flat, not unlike the sole, hut broader; it should be firm, and, in choosing, look out for a creamy under'flesh; if bluish and the fish is thin, it will be poor eating. At its best, it is regarded by many as little inferior to turbot, while it is cheaper, often ranging from 4<i. to lOd. per pound. It may be cooked in any of the ways given under Turbot, Plaice, or Soles (largo soles, that is). When plainly boiled, Anchovy, Shrimp, Lobster, or any similar sauce may be served with it. For any of the fish rechauffes where white fish is named, brill may be used; it is air excellent fish for serving cold with mayonnaise or other good sauce, and it is very good curried, &c. If the fish is large, slit the back before boiling, and always rub the white side with lemon-juice, however it is to be cooked. Carp.—This is a pond rather than a river fish. The flesh has a muddy Fig. 21.—Carp. taste, owing to the habit of the fish of burying itself in mud. The best are oi a moderate size, and they should he kept a day before using. The gills should be removed, and the fish most tho- roughly cleansed, plenty of salt being rubbed on the back-hone. If put in salt and water (a handful to the gallon) with a cup of vinegar for a time, and well rinsed, carp is improved. Plain mothods of cooking are not suited to133 FISH. carp, ana it neeas a good sauce. It is a great improvement to take out the back-bone. Carp, Baked,—Clean and scale the fish, stull' it with Hekb or Oyster Forcemeat, or use bread-crumbs, well seasoned and flavoured with anchovy butter; bind with beaten egg, and add an ounce of butter to two or three ounces of crumbs. Sew up the fish, brush it with beaten egg, and dredge with crumbs. Bake and finish as directed for Fresh Haddock. If a gravy is made in the tin, add a spoonful of Worcester sauce and a little French mustard; the last named is a good addition. Another way.—After getting the fish read)-, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, or two if a large fish; turn often, and wipe the fish dry after an hour, then cover it with chopped shalots and bread-crumbs mixed, and bake as above. Carp, Baked, with Tartare Sauce.—Prepare the fish as usual, but instead of stuffing it use a lump of butter, say three or four ounces for a medium-sized fish, a chopped shalot, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of thyme, basil, and mar- joram in powder, a little salt and black pepper, and a pinch each of ground cloves and nutmeg. It must be under- stood that this is not intended to Jill the fish, but to moisten and season it. After working the ingredients together, put them in, sew the fish up, rub it over with a clove of garlic, brush with oil, and wrap in two sheets of oiled paper. Have ready a baking-tin and meat-stand, the bitter well oiled; put the fish on, and baste often with a little more oil, warmed in the tin to com- mence with ; when done, take the paper off, and serve with Tartare Sauce (cold). This is a French dish, and very good; all fish of the same class may be cooked thus. Brown Mustard Sauce is also good with it. Carp, Boiled,—After washing and scaling the fish, put it in boiling water with salt and vinegar (see Fish, Boiled), add an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, a bay-leaf, and a hit of scraped horse-radish ; this must be well skimmed, and the fish boiled very slowly. Serve hot with a good sauce, or cold; in the latter ease leave the fish in the liquor until cool, then drain, and garnish it with parsley, cut lemon, and horse-radish in little tufts, and send a nice sauce to table with it. Carp Hoes.—Put the roes in a saucepan, with a little salt, cover them with vinegar and water, equal parts, simmer a few minutes, ten or fifteen if large, then cut them up small; mix with half their hulk of bread- crumbs, season with cayenne, lemon- rind grated, mixed herbs, and salt, hind with beaten egg just enough to hold the mass together, then form into small cakes or little sausages ; pour a little. oiled butter over, and bake brown in a quick oven, or cook before the fire in a Dutch oven. Carp, Stewecl.—Wash and cut up the fish, put it in a stew-pan, with chopped onion to cover it, and some mixed sweet herbs ; pour over a glass of white wine (to each pound), cook for ten minutes, then add some sauce or gravy, and cook until tender. A piquant sauce is the most suitable. Char.—This is a delicacy of the Cumberland lakes. It must bo care- fully Dandled in the cleansing, and thoroughly dried. It is usually floured and grilled or broiled, and served with.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK 134 a piquant sauce. This fish is sometimes potted and preserved in various ways. Cliub. —This is a river fish, some- what like the carp, but longer; its Flo. 23.—Chub. flesh is coarse, but the roe is good, and tho best of the flesh is about the head and throat. The roe may be* cooked by any of the recipes given for the roe of other fish. Clams. —These are a sort of cockle, found in Devon, Cornwall, Wales, Scotland, and Ireland. They are not much used in England, but figure largely in American cookery. No less an authority than Soyer says that they are superior to the oyster in flavour, but this is certainly a disputable point. If eaten raw, they should bo about the size of an oyster; larger ones are best reserved for cooking. Clams in tins or jars, as well as clam chowder and clam juice, are sold by dealers in American produce. They are of reasonable prices, and excellent quality. Clam Chowder.—Required : a dozen large clams, four ounces of salt pork, two onions, three potatoes, a quart of milk, and seasoning. Cost, uncertain. Cut up the pork, fry it lightly in a stew-pan; slice tho vegetables, add them with the liquor from the clams, strained ; cook gently for a short time, add some of tho milk, cook until the pork, &c., are done; put in the clams and the rest of the milk, bring to the point of boiling, and serve in a quarter of an hour. Clams, Fried.—Divide them if large, and roll in egg and pounded biscuit-crumbs; or coat with batter, and fry in tho usual way ; or cut the clams up, and mix with stiff batter, and fry by dropping from a table- spoon. In this way they are called Clam Fritters. Cockle. —This is a favourite bi- valve ; it is very abundant on many parts of the coast, where sandy. Some people can eat cockles largely with impunity, and they have sometimes staved off the pressure of starvation amongst the poor of our coasts. They attain to a large size by culture. Cost, about fid. per quart. Cockles, Boiled.—Wash them, and scrub the shells with a brush, put them into salt and water for some time, then put them in a saucepan with a little water, just to cover the bottom ; put a towel on the top, shake the pan constantly to prevent burning, and when the shells open they aro ready to serve. Cockles, Roasted. — Wash, scrub, and dry them, and cook on a tin laid on a stove, or cook before tho firo until the shells open, and eat them with salt, popper, and lemon-juice or vinegar, and bread-and-butter. Cockles may be stowed, scalloped, made into sauce, or cooked in any way given for Oysters and Mussels, except frying. Cod,—This is a useful fish ; it lends itself readily to all methods of cooking, and is often to be had very cheaply. A good fish is plump, with firm stiff flesh, which will rise instantly upon pressure; the tail should be well rounded. It is not advisable to cook a whole fish, or the tail is overdone before the thick part is cooked. Tho head and shoulders may be boiled; tho gelatinous parts of the head aro much enjoyed by epicures. Tho middle of the fish forms a good dish if baked, orkisli. 135 it may be stewed, or divided into cutlets. The tail may bo served any way ; if split open, boned, and fried, it is very nice. As to rechauffes, many of the daintiest may bo made from cod. The Dogger Bank cod are the best, and fetch the highest price. Cost, on an average, fid. per pound. Cod a la Drusille.— Required : one pound of crimped cod in slices, half a pint of Sauce a la Drusille, and some milk and water. Put enough milk and water in a pan to cover the fish (it should be laid for a short time in cold water with a little salt and lemon-juice, then dried). When the liquid boils, lay in the fish in a single layer; cook very softly, then drain, and dish the slices in a row ; take the skin off, and pour the sauce over. Coda TEspagnole.—Required: two pounds of the tail end of a cod, a pint of Brown Sauce, a little salt, cayenne, and lemon-rind, the juice of half a lemon, a glass of sherry, a small onion stuck with a couple of cloves, and a little butter. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; wash and dry the fish, and cook it in the butter until lightly browned; then drain it very' thoroughly. Put it flat in a stew-pan, with the other ingre- dients, wine excepted, and cook gently for twenty minutes, more or less, ac- cording to thickness. Lay it on a hot dish, add the wine, and give a boil up ; skim, and pour the sauce over the fish through a strainer. It is a great im- provement to skin the fish and remove the bone. Cod a l'Indienne,—Required; three pounds of cod, the thick end of the tail, some forcemeat, sauce, &c., as below, some tomatoes and pickles. \\ ash and dry the fish, remove the bone, and put it on with the usual seasonings and a pint of water, to boil down to a gill; strain, and add to it three-quarters of a pint of Brown Sauce, a dessert-spoonful of hot chutney, a tablespoonful of French mustard (or some curry or mulligatawny paste can bo used instead of tho mustard), a table- spoonful of tomato puree or conserve, and a little lime or lemon juice, with a small quantity of soy, and salt to taste. Have the fish baked, after filling it with Herr Forcemeat highly seasoned with pepper and French mustard. It should be sewn or tied in shape. (See Cod, Baked.) When done, remove the thread or string ; dish, after draining well, and when the sauce has boiled up pour it round the fish. Garnish with grilled tomatoes in thick slices, each slice brushed over with warm thin glaze, and sprinkled with chopped clear pickles (Indian), first warmed in a spoonful of stock. Serve hot, for dinner or luncheon. Cod a la Maitre d’Hdtel.— Put a cut from tho middle of a cod in a steamer: say, from two to three pounds. In the water, under tho steamor, put the usual quantity of salt and vinegar, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Brush the fish on each of the cut sides with lemon-j uice; before putting it in the steamer lay it in a shallow tin or dish, the shape of the steamer; put a buttered paper over the top, then close tho steamer, and cook until tender, turning when half done. When ready to serve, the flesh will look creamy at the ends and whito all through, leaving tho bone readily. Take it up, remove the skin, and brush tho top over with warm butter, and sprinklo it with a little chopped parsley. Strain the liquor from the fish, and mix it with a pint of MaItre d’H6tel Sauce, then pour it round the fish. This is a very good dish. The fish will be excellent in flavour if not over- cooked. Fish cooked in this way can bo served with other sauces (see recipes); the liquor from the tin should always be added. Cod, Baked,—A piece from the middle is nico for this, or the tail end does very well. Either may be finished off, lifter washing and drying, as directed for Haddock. Or tho fish may be136 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. boned and stuffed; oystei forcemeat is delicious, and oyster sauce should accompany it; or the herb forcemeat, with parsley or caper sauce ; or shrimp or anchovy forcemeat, with the same sauces, will be found equally good. In either case, supposing a cut piece of fish, after stuffing, bind with tape, and tie a piece of greased paper over the ends, taking them off to brown up last thing. Another good plan is to tie a greased paper all over the fish, without any previous preparation. Then, when done, brush over with glaze, top and ends, and dredge with raspings warmed in the oven. (See also Fish, Roasted.) Any thick fish is very good thus cooked. Cod, Boiled.-If tlio head and shoulders be the part chosen, very careful washing is needed in salt and water; the eyes should bo removed, and every part of the head rubbed with salt, and rinsed in cold water and vindgar. In case of no fish-kettle with drainer being handy, it will be well to tie it in a thin cloth, that it may be lifted out without breaking. Put it in water prepared in the usual way, and when it luis boiled up and been well skimmed, lay the fish in, and cook slowly. It will take forty minutes and upwards, according to size. Drain and dish carefully, and serve with the usual sauces. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley or horse-radish and parsley. (See Fish, Boiled.) For a cut from the middlo, boil as above, or in milk and water, or Court Bouillon au Blanc. Oyster sauco is very good with it. Cod, Fried,—The tail end is a good part to fry. It should bo washed and dried, and "split open, and the bone removed, then divided into neat pieces of even size. Steaks may be cut from the middle and served in this way also. Cut the fish into slices an inch thick, wash them well and dry them tho- roughly. Plunge them into boiling fat, anil fry them brown. Put them on a piece of clean paper to clear them from fat; Berve them on a hot napkin, and send them to table garnished with parsley. Before frying, the fish should be dipped in batter, or egged and crumbed ; the latter method is the better. Cod Heads, Browned,—After boiling two or three heads as previously directed for Cod, Boiled, take the skin off, and dry them ; put them before a sharp fire or in an oven, and baste them with hot dripping; as soon as brown they are ready to serve. A little flour may be dredged over, and allowed to froth up, or some raspings can bo used. Melted Butter, with a little browning, some caper or other flavoured vinegar, or a little ketchup, makes a good sauce. The heads should bo dished and garnished with parsley and lemon or horse-radish. Cod, Moulded.—Required: a pound of cooked fish, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, and some browned crumbs besides, a gill of plain white sauce or melted butter (see Hot Sauces), salt and pepper, and a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg. Butter a plain mould, round or oval —a cake tin does very well; coat it with the browned crumbs, putting plenty in, and shaking out all that do not adhere to the tin. Pass the fish through a coarse sieve, after freeing it from bones and skin; add the crumbs and cold sauce, with the beaten eggs and seasoning, and mix thoroughly. Put it in the mould firmly, and dredge more crumbs on the top. Twist a sheet of buttered paper over, and bake in a moderate oven, for half an hour, or thereabouts, according to the depth of the tin. Remove the paper in time for the top to brown well. Turn out carefully on a hot dish, and pour some sauce round it, the same kind used in the mixture, or plain Oyster or White Mushroom Sauce is equally suitable. For a better dish of the kind, use any rich sauce, both in the mixture and round the mould; and garnish taste- fully with cut lemons and fried parsley, or with prawns or shrimps.137 FISH. Cod, Moulded, with Maca- roni.—Prepare a mould exactly as detailed in the preceding recipes, then put in a layer of cooked macaroni, pressing it firmly to the bread crumbs. Prepare the fish in the same way, but use a gill of thick tomato sauce, in place of white sauce, to moisten the fish, and add to the mixture an ounce or two of cooked macaroni, cut in short lengths, as well as the crumbs, eggs, and seasoning above named. Then cook as above detailed, and serve with tomato sauce poured over, and boiled macaroni, and hard boiled eggs, quar- tered, placed round the mould. In this, and all similar dishes, the mould must be very evenly coated. If the crumbs are thick in one place, and thin in another, not only is an unsightly dish the result, but the mould is very liable to break in turning out. For plainer dishes, the fish can bo cut up or flaked, instead of sieved. The mould may be steamed if preferred. It should be set in a potato steamer, or saucepan with boiling water to half its depth, as directed for puddings in a later chapter, and cooked for thirty to forty minutes; as soon as firm on the top it is done. Cod, Salt, with Parsnips (a dish for Ash Wednesday).—Salt cod is usually accompanied by parsnips, pro- bably because that wholesome root is at its best and sweetest during the course of lent, and it is very generally served with them and egg sauce on Ash Wednesday. Wash the fish tho- roughly, and lay it in cold water to draw out the salt. It must lie for at hast twelve hours, and longer if it is very salt, and the water ought to bo changed every four or five hours. W hen thoroughly soaked, put it in a saucepan with tepid water, and let it heat very gradually. It must not lie allowed to boil, or it will harden. \\ hen nearly boiling, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until done. Drain it, and serve it on a hot napkin, accompanied by parsnips. (See V sort a m. as.) Cod Sound as Chicken.—Soak and wash three large sounds (see recipo below), and boil them in milk and water for half an hour. Scrape off tho dark skin, and let them cool. Make a forcemeat with a dozen chopped oysters, three oimces of finely grated bread- crumbs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of white pepper, a blade of mace pounded, two chopped anchovies, and three ounces of butter. Work all well together with the yolks of two eggs, spread the forcemeat thinly over the sounds, and truss each one to re- semble a rolled fowl. Dredge flour over them, and cook them in a Dutch oven, basting them well with butter or lard. Serve with Oyster Sauce poured over them. Cod Soxmd, Boiled,—Cod sounds are much liked by many persons, and may he procured salted. Put them into plenty of cold water all night, then scrape and mb off the dark skin with a cloth, wash them thoroughly, and put them in a stew-pan with equal parts of milk and water, and boil them very gently until tender. Be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Serve them on a hot napkin, with Ego Sauce. Time to boil, forty minutes to an hour. Cod, with Mashed Potatoes, —Take the remains of cold cod and its weight in mashed potatoes, remove the skin and bones, and to every pound of fish allow one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, and one or two grains of cayenne; pound all together to a smooth paste with a liltlo buttes-, oil, or cream. Place the mixture in a well-buttered dish, roughen the top with a fork, and bake it in a moderate oven. As soon as brown it is ready. A little plain sauce of any sort im- proves it. Conger Eel.—This is less used than it might bo; the flesh is whole- some, nourishing, and palatable. There are many ways of cooking it. Tho head and tail can bo used for soup, while tho middle serves for pies or. KUniversal cookery book. 138 stows; or it may bo baked, boiled, fried, &c. The value of the conger for turtle soup is recognised by many; and in a paper read at the Fisheries Exhibition of a few years ago by Sir Henry Thompson, he stated that turtle soup when at its best was composed of a stock made from conger eel, the turtle furnishing the garnish and the name. Cost, from 3d. to 6d. per pound. Conger Eel, Baked.—Take a piece of eel a foot long; after skinning and cleansing, dry it well, and stuff it with plain fish stuffing (see Force- meats) ; tie a greased paper over each end, and bind it with tape to keep in the stuffing. Have some hot- fat in a baking-tin; flour the fish, and baste it well, then cook it gently, with frequent basting, for an hour or longer, accord- ing to thickness; see that it is well done. Dish on a hot dish, dredge with raspings, and send a piquant sauce or gravy to table with it. This is both good and cheap. Cost, about Id. per pound. This may be cooked in a Dutch oven with still greater success, as the chances aro it will got more basting. To boil conger, add a bunch of herbs to the water, and rather more than the usual quantity of vinegar. To fry it, parboil, and let it become cold, before frying. (See Eels.) Court Bouillon,—Required: half a pint of vinegar, half a pint of wine, a quart of water, an ounce of salt, a bunch of thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, and marjoram or basil, a sliced onion, a carrot cut up, a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and a bit of mace. Put the whole of the ingredients on to boil; let the liquid attain simmering point as slowly as possible, then skim, and boil from forty to fifty minutes, and strain for use. This is used for fresh water fish; the quantity made must depend upon the size of the fish, which should be well covered; the recipe will serve as a guide to the re- spective quantities. For ordinary purposes a less expensive bouillon, made with a gill of wine only and the same of vinegar, answers very well; but the above is a preparation which may bo re-boiled, and used many times, if diluted each time with half a pint of fresh water; otherwise, it would become too strong and concentrated. Fish boiled in Court Bouillon is often served cold, simply with oil and vinegar, or any sauce of which oil is the principal ingredient. (See Cold Sauces.) Court Bouillon au Blanc.— Boil some water with a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, an onion, a teaspoonful of white pepper- corns, and a couple of ounces (or more) of salt to each half gallon ; skim very thoroughly, and after twenty minutes’ simmering strain, and add an equal measure of new milk. Put together in a fish-kettle, and when it simmers put in the fish. The above is used for boiling white fish of various kinds; when for in- valids, the salt should be reduced. No lemon-juice or vinegar must ever be added, but in preparing the fish it may be rubbed on the white side with lemon-juice and left for a while, then rubbed again, finally rinsed in clear water ; and during tbe boiling it must be kept skimmed constantly. Crab.—Select a crab of medium size; it should bo heavy : a light crab is likely to be watery. To test it, hold it by the claws, and shake it from side to side. If it rattles much it should be rejected, as it will contain water and be of inferior quality. If good and freshly boiled, it will be stiff, with the tail pressed to the body. The male crab is considered the better, and preference should bo given to those with rough shells and claws. The points of the claws shonld be stiff, the shells bright red, and the eyes bright and firm. The crab is at its best and cheapest in the summer; it may then be had from 4d. or 6d. ; while in winter it may reach 3s. In preparing dishes of any sort from crabs, the gills and the bag found in- side the shell should be thrown away.139 FISII. Tho creamy meat of the large shell, and the flesh of the claws are the parts to use. The small claws serve for garnishing. For recipes from crab, in addition to the following, see Index. Crab may also be used in place of lobster, for some of the dishes under Lobster. Crab, Boiled.—Put some water into a saucepan, and to every quart add a tablespoonful of salt. When it boils, put in the crab, previously taking the precaution to tie its claws. Boil briskly for twenty to thirty minutes, or longer if the crab is large. When taken out, rub a little sweet oil on the shell. Crab, Curried. — Required : a crab, half a pint of cream and milk mixed, salt, lemon juice, cayenne, a tablespoonful of grated cocoanut, the same measure of curry paste, and an ounce of butter. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan; mix in the curry paste mixed with some of the milk; add the cocoanut and the rest of the.milk; stir to the boil, and simmer for a few minutes. Then put in the crab and the cream, with cayenne to taste, and a little salt. Stir for a few minutes, then put the cover on, and leave the saucepan where the contents can remain below the point of boiling for a quarter of an hour-. Give another stir, just to the boil; add some lemon- juice, and serve with a border of rice. This is a delicate and delicious curry. To make it more piquant, put in a dash of French mustard, and a tea- spoonful of hot chutney. For a plainer curry, use inilk or milk and fish stock, and leave ont the cream. IWc.—Simmer the cocoanut in just enough milk or water to cover it for a few minute's before putting it in the curry; and, if liked, use the liquid only in the curry, then a slight thick- ening of rice-flour must bo used, or the sauce will bo thin. A morsel of shalot will improve this for some palates. Crab, Devilled (American). —Put the meat of a freshly boiled crab in a basin, first throwing away the part called the “ apron or sand bags,” and tho gills. Season highly with pepper, mustard, and cayenne; add a grate of nutmeg, some chopped parsley, a suspicion of minced onion, first scalded, and a little chutney sauce or mushroom ketchup: tomato sauce can be used instead of either. Stir all in a saucepan, moistening with milk or fish stock; add a tablespoonful of cracker (biscuit) crumbs, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with the “feelers ” of the crab, and some sprigs of parsley. Send crackers to table, also brown bread-and-butter, with cayenne and cut lemons. Crab, Dressed.—For a plain dish, pick out the meat of a crab; mix it with half a wineglassful of mild vinegar, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a little salt and mustard to taste; then add a tablespoonful of salad oil, or a bit of fresh butter. Put the mixture in the shell, put it on a napkin laid on a dish, and garnish with the small claws, and some water- cress or parsley. For a hot dish, mix some bread crumbs in with the rest, and moisten with a little fish stock or milk. Cover with crumbs, put bits of butter over, and brown in a quick oven. Chopped parsley may be put in this, or a bit of cooked onion. Crab, Minced.—Cut up the meat of the claws of a crab ; mix them with that of tho bod}'; add the flesh of a couple of boned anchovies, or some good anchovy paste; put all in a sauco- pan with a glass of sherry, a table- spoonful of French vinegar, a morsel of mustard, and a heaping tablespoon- ful or two of cooked rice. Stir for a minute; draw the pan aside, and.bent in tho yolks of two raw eggs. Con- tinue to beat without further boiling, and pour tho mixturo over a largo slice of fried bread, divided into pieces ready for serving. Garnish with friod140 UNIVERSAL COOKERY HOOK. parsley, the small claws of the crab, and slices of lemon with fillets of anchovy. This is a very good dish. It may be varied by adding shrimps or prawns, with which the dish should then be garnished. The same mixture, made a little thicker with rice or bread crumbs, may also be put into scallop shells, and finished off as directed for other kinds of scalloped fish in this chapter. Crab in White Sauce.—Mix the flesh of a medium sized crab in a basin, with a quarter pint of White Sauce, and a small shalot minced and scalded; season nicely with salt and pepper and a little lemon-juice. Wipe out the shell, rub it with oil, put in the mixture, and make the top level; dredge with crumbs, and brown slightly. It should just heat through, and will take but a short time if the sauce be mixed in while hot. This is a cheap dish. For a better one of the sort substitute any rich white sauce given for fish, and add a little cream. Before serving, sprinkle with lobster coral, and put a few tiny fancy-shaped croutons in a pattern on the top. {See Garnishes. ) This should take its name from the sauce, as Crab a la BEchamel, &c. Craw fish.—These, like most of their tribe, are somewhat indigestible, and are considered rather coarse eating by some; with others, they are a great favourite. They attain a largo size, and when very large are often divided, and sold at a shilling or oighteenpeneo per half, though the price is very uncertain. They aro generally sent to table plain, or in a salad, but any of the recipes under Lobster are equally suitable for craw-fish. In all the recipes for Cray-fish the small ones arc referred to; we mention this, as very often the terms Craw-fish and Cray-fish are used synonymously, and this is apt to mislead. Cray-fish.—This is a delicious fish, somewhat similar to lobster, but considered superior in flavour by many. Celebrated gourmets are loud in praise of cray-fish soup and dishes of a like kind ; and cray-fish stewed in wine is a popular dish across the Channel. The cost here is very uncertain ; out of London the fish are not, as a rule, easily obtained. To boil the fish, pro- ceed as for lobster, giving them from ten to fiftcon minutes. If required to keep them alive, there must bo a small quantity of water only, and that con- stantly renewed; if put in a bucket with an inch of water it is quite sufli- cient, if a fresh supply is added in four hours. Cray fish, Creamed.— Mincetho moat of a dozen fish, chop a truffle and a button mushroom, put a tablospoonful of white roux into a cup of cream and milk mixed ; stir to the boil, add a pat of cray-fish butter (see Garnishes), with seasoning to taste, then stir in the meat of the fish, mushroom, and truffle, and do not boil again. A small quantity can be made in the above proportions, but if the fish are large, not more than eight or nine will be wanted. The mixture should be like a rich creamy sauce. The mushroom must be cooked firBt in a little butter. This is used for small savouries, patties, &c. Cray-fish in Jelly.—Required : a pint of fish to each pint of jelly, some small salad, and a dressed salad. Line a mould with jelly, lay in the fish, backs down, with any green salad : capers, cross, cucumber, &c.; if liked, hard-boiled eggs can be added; add more jelly, then more fish, &c. Proceed in this way until the mould is full; each layer of jelly must set, or the fish will all sink to the bottom. Turn out, and garnish the base with any dressed salad, or with sprigs of parsley or cress, and cut lemons. Or for a more elaborate dish, use chopped aspic, and salad mixed with mayonnaise, coated with lobster coral, or garnish the edge of the mould with cray-fish butter from a bag and small rose pipe. Any plain mould does for this dish.FISH. 141 Cray - fish Mould (or Krebs Koch; a German dish).—Required : half a pint of cream and milk mixed, half a pint of bread-crumbs, five eggs, a dozen cray-fish, some Cray-fish Butter, and seasoning. Cost, uncer- tain. Put the crumbs in a bowl with the boiling cream and milk, cover, and when cooling stir in two ounces of cray-fish butter, and the yolks of the eggs when cold. Then beat the whites to a froth as if for souffles. Butter a basin, using cray-fish butter or plain butter: in the latter case sprinkle with lobster coral; put in some cray- fish tails at the bottom, then some of the bread, after the whites have been added, then more tails and bread. When quite full, twist a sheet of buttered paper over, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out, and pour round a little Cray-fish Sauce, the bodies being used up in making it. Cray-fish. Tails.—These may be bought in bottles usually where the Krebs butter is obtained. (See Cray- fish Butter in Garnishes.) They are excellent for small dishes of various kinds, and for garnishing fish, as mayonnaise of turbot, &c. They cost from one to two shillings per bottle, according to size. They would be found handy for some such dish as tho above; a little lobster meat might bo added to the sauce; or a plain one of melted butter, flavoured with cray-fish butter, would answer very well. Crimping of Fish.--This < peration consists in making deep cuts :n the flesh of the fish on both sides as : !|r as the bone. It must be done while the fish is fresh, as soon after landing as possible. It makes the flesh firmer and better, both for cooking and serving. Crimped cod is always valued more highly than plain un- erimped fish, and sold at a higher price. A salmon which is caught in the morning, crimped, and cooked for dinner the same evening, is quite a rovolation to those who have never before eaten a really fresh salmon. Curried Fish.—For each pint of Curry Sauce take about two pounds of fish; if the white sorts, as cod, haddock, &c., simply take the bones out, and divide the fish into pieces of an inch and a half square, and cook them till tender in the sauce. If river fish, cleanse in the way given under the various headings, and if strong fish of the carp tribe, parboil them, and finish cooking in the sauce. All sorts of cold fish may be curried, the bones stewed down for stock for the sauce, and the fish broken into good-sized flakes. Shrimps or prawns may be added to the sauce, or used in garnishing the rice; a flavouring of ketchup, shrimps, or anchovy essence, &c., can likewise be put in. There should always be a good supply of rice, and the proper way to serve it is on a large dish, with the fish and sauce in the centre ; or it can be put in a sepa- rate dish. In putting the curry on a plate, take the rice first, hollow the portion, and serve the fish and sauce in tho hollow. Various tinned fish may be curried; when in oil, like sar- dines, use the oil for the sauce instead of the ordinary curry fat, butter, &c.; most kinds are best taken from the tin and laid in the sauce to get hot, for example, herrings, lobster, mackerel, and eels; tho last-named are improved if some of the liquor from the tin be strained and used for the sauce. Dabs.—These fish are small, but very good; they are caught mostly in rivers near the sea ; tho Thames fur- nishes a good kind. If washed in salt and water, and put to soak for a short time in water, with an ounco of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar to each quart, they will bo iinprovod in flavour. They are best friod or grilled, and should bo sent to tnblo with cut lemon or melted butter flavoured with lemon- juice. In some parts of England tiny soles, usually termed slips, are called dabs; indeed, many fish which aroUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 142 similar in taste or appearance are called by one name in some parts of the Flo. 24.—Dab. country, which is more or less confusing to the uninitiated. Dace.—This is enjoyed by those who angle for amusement’s sake ; it is Fio. 25.—Dace. best when treated as above described. A sauce of lemon-juice with cayenne is served with it, or any sharp saueo may be used. Dace is sometimes stewed like eels; and we may mention that any fish can be served en matelote. (See recipes in this chapter.) Eels.—Of the tribe of eels there arc several varieties: all have smooth heads and slippery skins, with soft scales, scarcely visible; all are rich, and to bo at all digestible need very thorough cooking. Eels are taken both in fresh water and the sea; the silver eel is the best. Buy them alive if possible, and kill them by dividing the spine just behind the head, without severing it from the body. The viva- city of its motion and colour and appearance of the skin are tests of the goodness of an eel. Cost, from 6d. per pound. Eels, Baked.—A good-sized fish is best for this. After cleansingand drying, fill it with Plain Shrimp Force-meat, fasten it securely, and put it in a round baking-dish with hot butter, and cook gently, basting often, until done. Then put the eel on a dish, add browned flour to the butter in the tin, then a glass of any light wine and half a pint of fish stock or water; boil up and skim, put in a little seasoning and a tcaspoonful of shrimp essence, or some shelled shrimps cut in small pieces, and pour round the fish. There are many recipes for baked eels, but the above is very good. They can be baked unstuffed, and any brown fish sauce served with them. Tomato Sauce is also suitable, but a little fish stock added is a great improvement. Eels, Boiled.—After cleansing, soak the eels for an hour in salt and water. Prepare the -water in the ordinary way, add a good bunch of parsley, and when it is quite hot put in the eels, and simmer them until tender. Melted Butter sharpened with lemon-juice or vinegar, is a sauce often served; but Brown Caper or the sauce named in the previous recipe, is also good with boiled eels. Eels, Fried.—Cut the fish into four-inch lengths, or fry small ones whole, curling them round like a whiting; they should be floured, egged, and crumbed (ere Eels, Grilled), and dished on a napkin, with fried parsley as garnish. Tartare Sauce, hot orFISH. 143 cold, is excellent with fried eels, so are any of the brown, sharp sauces. Eels, Grilled.—It is usual to find in recipes for grilling, broiling, or frying eels, that the fish in the raw shite Is indicated; but they should in each case be parboiled, or three parts boiled. They then need but little further cooking, and are more tender and digestible, while equally savoury. After parboiling, dry the fish, then coat it with egg and bread-crumbs as usual, adding to the crumbs some powdered sage or mixed herbs, or parsley only, with a little black pepper. Grill over a clear fire until delicately browned (first brush the grid with oil or butter), and serve hot, with sauce as above directed. Instead of crumb- ing the eels, they may be lightly (loured and brushed over with salad oil. Eels, Mayonnaise of.—Re- quired: two pounds of silver eels, a glass of light wine, a gill of French vinegar, a bay-leaf, sprig of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, half a dozen allspice berries and peppercorns, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a morsel of mace. Prepare the fish, cut them into two- inch lengths; sprinkle them lightly with salt in a baking-dish, add the foregoing ingredients, and water to cover the fish. Cover, and cook in a slow oven until tender; then remove the fish, and add a little sheet gelatine to the liquor: half an ounce to half a pint, or less may do (see Aspic Jelly). Then clarify, and pour in a shallow tin to cool. Serve the eels, when quite cold, piled high in the centre of a dish ; cover them with half a pint ot more of thick Mayonnaise, and chop the jelly, using it as a border. Garnish with shrimps or prawns, and with slices of lemon or cucumber here and there amongst the jelly; fancy shapes, cut from thin slices of beetroot dipped in salad oil, are very effective; capers, chopped parsley, cress, etc., are all suitable. Eels, To Skin.—(&« Whiting.) Eels, Stewed, Brown. — Re- quired : two pounds of eels, a glass of port or claret, a teaspoonful of mush- room catsup and Worcester sauce, a pint of Buown Sauce, a gill of fish stock, a few black peppercorns, salt to taste, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Prepare tho fish, cut it into short lengths convenient for serving, lay them in a stew-pan with the fish stock, seasoning, and all but the brown sauce ; cook very gently for a quarter of an hour, then add the brown sauce, and boil gently until the eels are quite tender, then pile them in a dish and pour the sauce over. Eels, Stewed, White.—Re- quired : eels as above, a glass of white • wine, the juice of half a lemon, a few drops of cayenne vinegar, some powdered herbs, tied in muslin, or herbal vinegar, a gill of good fish stock and three-quarters of a pint of white sauce made with milk, fish stock, or veal stock. (See White Sauce.) Put all except the lemon-juice and white sauce in a stew-pan, cook hs above; serve in the same way, re- membering to keep the stew under boiling point after the white sauce is added, and to put the lemon-juice in last thing; adding also, if liked, some chopped parsley. Remove the herbs, squeezing the bag well. A garlic flavour may be imparted by mincing a morsel with the parsley, or a slighter one by nibbing the bottom of tho pan. If possible, before serving stewed eels take the fish out of the gravy and let the gravy cool, then skim it well, and re-heat it; put back the eels to got hot through. Button mushrooms are ■ a good addition to either brown or white eel stow, and to a brown one some small onions fried a little may also bo added. (See Vegetables.) Egging and Crumbing Fish. —(See Fish, Eooino and Cuumhino, and Sole, Fuikd.) I Fish and Potato Puff.-Re-144 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. quired : two pounds of mealy potatoes, two ounces of butter, two eggs, seasoning, two ounces of grated Par- mesan cheese, one pound of cooked white fish, one pint of Bechamel Sauce, and some raspings. The potatoes should be weighed after cooking, and passed through a sieve whilo hot. Mix with them the butter, seasoning, the yolks of the eggs, and half the cheese. Butter a flat dish, spread some of the potato mixture at the bottom, then the fish, flaked, and mixed with the sauce; the centre should bo higher than the sides. Cover the top with the rest of the potato mixture, putting it on from a spoon, and smoothing with a hot wet knife. Beat up the white of one of the eggs, brush the top all over, sprinkle with a few raspings and tho rest of the choose, and bake in a quick oven a golden brown. 'Phis is a good luncheon dish, is equally suitable for broakfast, and all except tho egging and crumbing of the top may be prepared over-night. A fire-proof china dish' such as are used for macaroni, is nice for savouries of this description. Instead of browning in tho oven, it can be set over boiling water for a short time, and browned before a clear fire. Any plain white sauce may be used. Fish, Baked, with Savoury- Custard.—Cut slices of half an incli thick from a cod, large fresh haddock, hake, or any similarly shaped fish; lay them close together in a buttered pie- dish : a shallow one. Season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Required, in addition, the following ingredients—for three or four slices, according to size—two level table- spoonfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of curry-powder, tho same of chopped parsley, one ounce of butter, two eggs, half a pint of milk, and a saltspoonful of anchovy essence. Mix tho flour, &c., to a smooth batter, with the eggs and milk beaten together; if lumpy it is spoilt. Dissolve tho butter, and stir it in; pour over tho fish, and bake in a very moderate oven from t wenty to thirty minutes. Send to table in tho dish, after sprinkling the surface with raspings, or lobster coral or parsley, if for serving at dinner. This is novel, cheap, and a good dish for any meal. It is necessary that tho dish be only large enough to take tho fish; the custard should coat the surface. Whiting, or similar fish, cooked whole in the same way, are excellent. If preferred, sweet herbs can be used instead of curry-powder. Fisli, Boiled.—To ensure the fish being taken up without breaking, a fish kottle with strainer, as shown in tho accompanying illustration, is the best utensil. It can be lifted out as soon as ready, and well drained, by setting the drainer for a minute across the kettle. If such a vessel is not at hand, a pot the size of the fish (that is, it must take it comfortably) is the next best thing. But the difli- cidty is tho removal; a couple of fish slices will be needed, and the fisli must be tied in a thin cloth. Another way is to lay it on a dish or plate, and set that on a cloth, then tic up the corners like a boiled pudding, and hold them, when putting the fish in and taking it Fig 26.—Fish Kettle and Drainer. out. But in all houses where fish is an institution wo strongly advise the-145 F1S1I purchase of a fish kettle; one of block tin is strong enough for use ®n a gas or oil stove or close range, and will last some time, though an extra strong block tin, with copper bottom, or a kettle of steel entirely? is worth the extra money. Alter using, the kettle should always be washed in boiling water and soda, and thoroughly dried, or the next boiling of fish, however fresh it may be, will have an unpleasant flavour, and the fishmonger may be unj ustly blamed. For plaice, large soles, haddock, and the usual varieties of white fish, proceed as follows. Wash it well, but quickly; if soaked it loses flavour. Have in the fish-kettle water to cover it only; too much robs it of more flavour and good- ness. Add salt in the proportion of four ounces to the gallon; four table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of white peppercorns should also be used to the same measure of water, unless strong white vinegar or lemon- juice be used, then less does. The three combined give flavour, firmness, and whiteness. After boiling up, skim well, and unless the fish has a delicateskin, like whiting and mackerel, put it in while boiling. The cold fish lowers the temperature, and for small fish this reduced heat should be maintained to the end; for large thick fish the water should barely simmer, certainly not bubble. It may sound very contradictory to say that boiled fish should not boil; yet so it is. The very knocking about, if rapidly cooked, would result in a broken mass, almost distitute of flavour. Those who have given much attention to and made the most careful experiments in fish boil- ing say that there is always an escapo of nutritive matter. This is proved by evaporating the residue. Five per cent, may he taken as the lowest, though it is very seldom so little as this; only when the most minute care is exercised from start to finish. The loss may reach thirty per cent., if fish he put on in cold water, and left too long in the pot. Ibis is a serious loss, and explains how it is that a boiled fish is often a costly, wasteful, and highly unsatisfactory' dish. The time required may be estimated at from five to fifteen minutes per pound, according to land, size, and shape; the fish with the denser grain taking longar than the softer sorts. But experience here is the only teacher. A beginner would be wise to note the time required for various kinds by making experiments with a few sorts ; after a few boilings, it will be* easy to hit the medium between pulp and rawness, for fish should be served as soon as done. If it must be kept hot, dish it; set the dish over the kettle, lay a clean cloth wrung out of the fish water over it, and put a cover over. To know when fish is done: in many books one reads “ boil until the eyes start and the tail cracks.” Not a practical test, because every piece of fish is not supplied with a head and tail (and the eyes should be removed). In short, a redness near the bone, or a firm adherence of the flesh thereto, is an indication that a little longer- must be given; when the flesh looks white, opaque, the same all through, and parts easily from the bone, the fish must be dished at once; every second longer spoils it. It is of course much easier to watch for these signs in a cut piece than in a whole fish; in the latter case, by the time the tail begins to look cracked and in danger of breaking, the middle is generally done. For oily fish the water may be salted rather more, especially for salmon, and for that no vinegar is needed; acids bleach, and in salmon the object is to retain the pink tinge.* Time required may bo twenty minutes per pound if the fish is thick. For slrony fish—to use an oxprossivo term—Iho vinegar may bo increased, not only for its bleaching properties, but because it nullifies unpleasant flavours. The vegetables and herbs named in some of our recipes serve the same purpose, and make the fish * Vinegar is sometimes used for the sake of the flavour, although the colour of the UsU suffers a little.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 146 more digestible. Time in proportion to thickness, but all of this class need to be well done. In adding water, if more is wanted during the cooking, pour' it from the sides, not over tho fish, or it will break. The above process is far from com- mon ; many adhere to the custom of putting fish into cold water. Perhaps a trial of the two modes for the same fish would be more convincing than any argument as to the need of boiling water to retain the goodness; and although our remarks are tho outcome of personal experiments, it is satisfac- tory to know that many of the leading lights in the culinary world, from a chemical standpoint, are now loud in condemnation of the cold water plan. A last warning : the slightest pu- tridity will spoil both tho colour and llavour of the fish. To be good, it must be fresh. Fish Bomhes a la Carlton, — Required : four ounces of cooked sole, turbot, or whiting, three eggs, half a gill each of cream and milk, garnish, sauce, &c., as below. Drain and dry some French capers ; Fio. 27.—Bom be Mould. wash and dry some parsley; chop them both, and sprinkle them over tho in- sides of some small, deep moulds, as shown above: they are sometimes called “dome top dariole moulds.’’ Then put at the bottom some small, pink shrimps. Cut the fish up, add the eggs, cream, milk, a little salt and popper, and two tablespoonfuls of any good fish sauce, anchovy, shrimp, &c. Pass all through a sieve, and add a few drops of carmine colouring. Nearly fill the moulds with this, and put more shrimps on the top. Twist a buttered paper over the tops, and cook in a steamer, or in a stewpan, with boiling water to half their depth, until firm, about twenty minutes. Turn out on a border of rice (see Rice a la Carlton), and pour round it a little sauce, as used for the interior. Fill the centre of the mould with a ragout of white fish, and ornament the top with shrimps or prawns. For the ragout, cut up some cooked white fish; moisten it with sauce as used for tho bombes, and add a spoonful or two of minced shrimps, and a littlo of the chopped capers and parsley. Serve as an entree. Fish, Broiled or Grilled.— In addition to the methods of prepar- ation given in our recipes, so far as the utensils are concerned, we may mention the use of common whiting. The bars are rubbed with this instead of grease by some ; and by many cooks tho use of oiled straws is considered necessary. In our opinion, tho method is an admirable one if there is fear of scorching by the time the fish is cooked—say, if very thick, or if the fish is cn papillate, as the danger of burning tho paper is reduced; but for ordinary use straws can bo dispensed with. In using them, grease them well, and see that they are longer than the fish, or piece of fish; put them near together, but not touching, in the contrary direction to the bars of the grid. The straws on which cream cheeses are sold answer the purpose, but it is not enough to rub a bit of grease on them: they must he in it; either liquid butter or some oil is best. Fish Cakes.—Required : twelve ounces of boiled or stewed white fish, any kind, six ounces of cooked potatoes, a little seasoning of salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, if liked, one egg, one ounce of butter. Cost, about 9d. Take tho fish from the bones while warm, if convenient, and sieve the potatoes whilo hot (steamed ones aro147 FISH. better than boiled, but best for this, and all similar uses, are potatoes baked iu their skins). Melt the butter, stir in the potatoes, then the fish, flaked or cut up (not pounded); take from the fire, stir well, and put in the yolk of the egg when cooled a little, and the seasoning; turn out on a board, make small balls of the mixture—about a tablespoonful—then flatten them into cakes, making the sides even; this is best done by dipping a knife in milk or beaten egg. When all are ready, beat up the white of the egg, brush the Kikes over, then coat them with bread- crumbs, and fry them a light brown in hot fat. Dish en couronne, and garnish with fried parsley. These are very plain, and the cost is trifling, but they are very tasty as a breakfast or luncheon dish. Another way.—These are better. Add to the fish a large tablespoonful of any nice sauce left over from the previous meal (anchovy, oyster, lobster, or any other); let the mixture become perfectly cold before making it into cakes. Use the whole of an egg to bind the cakes, and a second one to brush them over. Pish., Casserole of.—Required: one pound of cold fish, half a pint of sauce (any kind suitable for serving with the fish), some mashed potatoes, bread-crumbs, and butter or clarified dripping, one egg, seasoning, &c. Mash some potatoes carefully (see Potatoes), add salt and pepper and a beaten egg to a couple of pounds. Grease a plain cake-tin and put in some browned crumbs; use plenty, then shake out the loose ones. Put tho potatoes in, about three-quarters of an inch thick at the bottom, and half an inch at the sides, or more for a very plain dish. Set in it a jar or smaller tin, to keep the sides up, and put in some hot water, then bake in a good oven until brown, and turn on a hot dish ; reverse it on to another dish ; it is then ready to receive the fish, which should be flaked, and heated in the sauce. Put some chopped parsley or other plain garnish over the top, and serve hot. Remove the jar carefully, to avoid spilling the water. Another way.—Bake tho potatoes in a border mould, turn them out, and fill the middle with the fish and sauce. A tin of salmon, with a half pint of anchovy or caper sauce, makes a nice dish of this sort. (See also Rice Cas- serole and Potato Casserole.) Fish Chowder.—Required: two pounds of fish, four ounces of pickled pork, an onion, two medium-sized potatoes, salt and pepper, milk and water, spice, and flour. Cut the pork up and fry it a light brown, then slice an onion or two and fry with the pork. Slice the fish on a dish, season it with pepper and salt, and put on it tho onions and pork ; leave for an hour; stir a tablespoonful of flour into the fat left from the pork ; when smooth, put in a pint of milk, and stir to the boil; slice the potatoes, and boil them for a few minutes in tho water, then take them out, and put them in a clean pan, with the fish, onions, pork, and a pint of milk and water mixed ; boil until the pork is tender (the fish must be thickly sliced), about half an hour or forty minutes. Then add the pint of milk which was added to the thickening, with seasoning to taste, and a little spice. Another way.—Put in a kettle pork as above, after frying, with two pounds of fish in slices, half a pound each of sliced onions and potatoes, seasoning, and the liquor from canned tomatoes, to come to the top. Cook gently until all are tender, then stir in a pint of boiled milk, thickened and seasoned, and serve hot. Any firm white fish— mixed kinds if convenient—should bo used for these dishes. Sometimes pounded cracker (i.c. plain biscuit) crumbs aro added to thicken tho liquid. Fish, Cold, Savoury Cake of. —Required : ono pound of cold fish (baked or rousted is preferable to boiled for this dish), throo ounces of bread- crumbs, a large onion, a tablospoonful148 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. of chopped parsley, some powdered mixed herbs, about a saltspoonful, the same of pepper, a toaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, a gill of fish stock, one ounce of clarified fat, a gill of brown sauce, and throe eggs. Melt the fat in a pan; chop the onion, add it with the parsley, and brown it well; add the sauce, fish stock, the fish minced, and the bread- crumbs ; stir well, and season ; leave to cool, then mix in the eggs, adding them unbeaten, one at a time. Have a shallow cake tin or plain mould of any sort, grease and coat it with browned crumbs, put the mixture in, and hake in a moderate oven, about an hour. Turn out, and pour any nice sauce round; or if for breakfast, no sauce is needed. There are many ways of varying this; a little tomato conserve or a fresh tomato, or a chopped mush- room instead of catsup, less onion, and, for a cheaper dish, two eggs only, with another ounce of crumbs, will suggest variations of other kinds. Any cold sauce can bo used up instead of the brown sauce. Fish, Egging and Crumbing of. —See that the bread is at least a day or two old, and, if possible, sieve it (see Bread Crumhs, To Prepare). The eggs must not be stale. Wo do not mean that a now-laid egg, strictly speaking, is necessary, but a watery egg is no good; it will not stick on the fish. Details of the application of the egg and crumbs are given under Sole, Fried, but we may add a necessary warning : never handle the fish after preparing it; take it up on a fork or skewer after the crumbs have been well shaken over it (sec also Haddock, Baked). If the whites of eggs can be utilised for any other purpose, use the yolks only for the fish. Should strict economy be necessary, use the whole egg, and a spoonful of milk, beating them well. In such cases bo extra careful that there is a good coating of crumbs. Fish en Blanquette. — Re- quired : a pound and a half of white fish, half a pint of good Melted Butter, half a gill of fish stock, wine, and cream, three eggs, seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. Bone and skin the fish, cut it in suitable pieces for serving, make stock of the bones, and boil to half a gill; put this in the pan, with the fish and a little salt and half a gill of light wine; cook until soft, then mix the melted butter with tho yolks of the eggs and a tablespoonful of cream; stir until thick, custard fashion, or in the bain- marie; then take up tho fish, dish in a pile on a hot dish, reduce the liquor rapidly, pour it over tho fish, and then mask it with the sauce, using a palette- knife. Some potatoes, first scooped out into olive or any other fancy shapes with a cutter, may be used as garnish. They should be carefully boiled or steamed, brushed over with warm butter, and sprinkled with lobster coral, coralline pepper, or chopped parsley'; a little of the same garnish should bo put on the sauce. This is a rich dish, and can bo served as an entree. If preferred, nicely fried croutons can bo used instead of potatoes (sec Garnishes). For a still richer dish, use creamy bechamel, mixed with eggs, for masking the fish. Fish, Fillets of, in Potato Pastry. —-Required: some fillets from medium-sized fish, sole, plaice, brill, &c.; some Kick Potato Pastry, mush- room puree, &c., as below. After filleting the fish, cook tho fillets in a steamer, or as directed in tho next recipe ; then let them cool, spread half of them, after dividing again, with White Mushroom PurEe, mixed with tho yolk of a raw egg and a tablespoonful of lino crumbs, making about a gill altogether; lay tho other half over, like a sandwich. Have ready the pastry’ rolled thinly, cut a little larger than the fillets; lay'one on a piece of pastry, cover with another piece, and press tho edges firmly' all round ; they should be brushed first with a little raw egg. Then brush the tops with raw egg, mark them with a skewer orFISH 149 back of a knife, and fry them pale brown; sprinkle them with a little chopped parsley or lobster coral, dish them in a circle, onq against another, on a paper, with fried parsley in the middle, and serve white Mushroom Sauce with them. Fish with shrimp forcemeat and shrimp sauce, anchovy, oyster, or other forcemeat, with appropriate sauces, will be found quite as good as the fore- going. Serve for luncheon or dinner, or for breakfast without sauce. In covering with the pastry, remember to cut the top pieces larger than the bottom, to allow for covering the sides of the fillets. Fish, Fillets of, Plainly Steamed.—This mode of cooking can always be resorted to when a digest- ible dish is desired or when whiteness is the main object; other advantages are apparent in the flavour, which is all retained, and the comparatively litlle trouble. Take a couple of plates, tin ones, such as are used for baking tarts; slightly butter them; on one lay fillets of fish (skin side down, if the white thin is left on), then sprinkle with salt, pepper, a few drops of lemon j uice or vinegar, and put the second plate over. Sit them on a large pan of fast-boiling water, and if the water is kept boiling, they will be perfectly cooked in fifteen to twenty minutes. Small, whole fish, like whiting, are excellent so prepared. If sauce is used, add the liquor from the tin. This is a good way of cooking fish for made dishes. Slices of fish may be thus prepared, but take from thirty to forty minutes if thick, and when half done they should bo turned. " Fish, Fricasseed.—Required : two pounds of white fish, herbs, season- ing, and sauce as under. I’repare the fish by cleaning .and cutting it np, then put it in a pan with boiling stock to cover, about half a pint; add a bunch of herbs, a bit of nutmeg, and a few peppercorns, tied up in a bit of muslin, with a littlo salt; boil until done, then tako out the bag, and put in half a pint of thick white sauce ; boil- up, and season with lemon juice or any flavoured vinegar. This is plain. Another way.—Pour equal parts of milk and stock over the fish at starting, and when nearly done, add white roux to thicken ; or use flour and butter,■* giving it time to boil up and cook tho flour. When requiied richer, use a better sauce, or add the yolk of an egg to each half pint of saute as above. Hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices or quarters, may be used as garnish to the above. Fish, Fried.—Under Sole, Fried, we have given what we consider the best way of frying fish—i.c. by the complete immersion in fat, as described in Frying (p. 8). But there are many reasons why this method cannot be adopted universally. The next best way is to use a pan as deep as can bo obtained—a good-sized, deep frying- pan, for example—and to heat in it at least as muih fat as will half cover the fish. It is then necessary to cook one side and turn it, and give the other side nearly as long as the first; not quite, though, because, although not in the fat, the upper side gets heated through, and soon cooks. Care is needed in turning ; if a whole fish, put a skewer or fork in the head ; be care- ful not to drop it, or the hot fat may be splashed in the face. It should be drained and served very hot, and if much is being done, fillets or slices, more fat must be added now and then and allowed to get hot, or tho result will be the sodden dish we have pre- viously referred to. If the egging and crumbing method be adopted, (ho crumbs may bo mixed with a small proportion of flour, if liked, and pepper and salt can bo added to taste, so may powdered herbs. For this way of fry- ing, batter cannot be used; it would run off the top while tho bottom was coeking. Fish, Fried Plainly. — For this we will suppose that something plainer than egged nnd crumbed fish is wanted; or if the fish is to bo served up eventually in a curry or other dish,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 150 and the frying is regarded'as the pre- liminary process, then egging and crumbing is really better dispensed with. A coating with flour is a very economical way to treat the fish, and very satisfactory if the fat be hot, and the fish cooked at once; for while it improves it to stand after crumbing, it does not after flouring, as the flour gets damp, and the fish does not brown so well. Then, there is a mixture of fine flour and oatmeal, used for herrings and other small fish; fish so coated is pretty sure to be crisp and brown, but everyone will not like it. Another good way is to brush the fish with milk, then flour it and coat with crumbs, patting them on firmly. Again, there is'the well-known coating of batter. The more watery the fish, the thicker must be the batter, and a little flour should always be dredged on the fish first. (See Batter, Frying.) Pish, Fried to Eat Cold.— Prepare the fish some time before cooking, and leave it in a dry cloth; flour it well, shake off all loose flour, and cook it in enough oil to thoroughly cover it, to a light brown ; drain before the fire, dish when cold on a paper, and garnish with bunches of raw parsley, fennel, or cress. Any of the cold sauces may be sent to table with it, and a nice salad is a welcome accompaniment. If the fish are small, fry them whole, but slices fr om large fish are nice; they may be skinned or not. As there is no coating of egg and crumbs, the oil must be quite hot, and the fish well floured, or the juices will escape and it will not be brown and crisp. Fish. Livers.—The liver is the honne-bouche of the red mullet, and furnishes a g-ood_ deal of the gravy which is so much esteemed by epicures ; but with respect to fish generally, while by some the liver is regarded as a delicacy, others cannot partake of any kind or in any form; it should not, therefore, be put upon anyone’s plate unless it is first ascertained whether it will be agreeable. Liver exposed for sale separately should be bought with care, of reliable vendors only, for unless in good condition it is apt to bo productive of unpleasant after-con- sequences. A large liver is made more digestible if steamed for a short time, before cooking in any of the more favoured methods, as baking, &c. (See also Savouries.) Fish, Roasted.—This is un- doubtedly the least known mode of cooking fish, though it is so nearly related to baking as to be practically the same thing on an improved scale. The juices are fully preserved, and it is an easy matter to give due attention to the process known as basting. Wo may here remark that unless the fish is very largo, a little fat put on with a brush is all that is required. The dish should be adapted in size to the fish, but deep enough to keep in the juices; a Dutch or American oven answers admirably. Properly pre- pared, fish thus cooked has a most savoury flavour and odour, a crisp brown surface, and is juicy inside; care is needed to avoid over-roasting, and consequent dryness. The fish should bo cleansed, and prepared as if for baking, a stuffed fish being parti- cularly good thus treated. If, when done, the surface is not as brown as it should be, brush over with a little weak glaze, and dredge some raspings over; or use a salamander. The rules are the same as for roasting meat, therefore the condition of the fire is of equal importance; and a special warn- ing with regard to smokiness may not be out of place. Sir Henry Thompson, in the revised edition of “ Food and Feeding,” refers to roasted fish as a “now method of cooking fish.” This is doubtless due to the fact that few if any writers on cookery make any mention of the method ; for ourselves, we can only say that we have cooked fish in this way for many years, and have advocated the process whenever ■ opportunity offered; and we here strongly recommend any to whom such a dish is at present unknown to make trial of it. fooling sure that they willFISH, 151 agree that it is one of the best possible ways of cooking fish. In fact, it is a complcto revelation to people who are for the most part acquainted with insipid fish dishes only, by which wo mean boiled fish, particularly when care has not been taken to preserve the flavour. (See Fish, Boiled.) Fish, Roasted, with Oysters. —Required : a large haddock or small cod-fish (many others are quire as good), a tureen of Oysteh Sauce, a scoro of oysters, and some cracker-crumbs and seasoning. After preparing the fish and drying it well, rub the inside over with a little butter and anchovy essence, mixed with salt and cayenne. Season some crumbs of any sort of plain dry biscuits—Toast, Water, Milk, and the like—and roll the score of oysters singly in them, lay them/'in the fish, sew it up, and roast; add the super- fluous liquor from the oysters to the sauce, first reducing it. Melted But- ter only, flavoured with it, minus any more oysters, will do if strict economy has to be studied. The dish, which hails from America, is a very good one. Fish Roes.—When to be served with the fish, the roes should bo taken out and cleaned, then replaced. In a sole, a black streak is sometimes seen near the roe on holding the fish to the light, said to be due to death by suffocation when the fish are crowded. From the roes of herrings, mackerel, and other fish, many nice little savouries may be made while large ones will form quite a meal: cod's roe, for instance. A good way to cook the latter (if hard, tio it in buttered muslin) is in warm water, salted, from half an hour to an hour, in proportion to thickness; it may be served with any nice sauce. Or if left to cool, and then skinned, if. can be dipped in batter and fried. A favourite dish is one of cod’s roo and bacon. After cooking bacon, take a boiled roe, skinned and cut in slices, and brown it in the bacon fat. Wo recommend steaming as tho best way of cooking soft roes generally, as when prepared in other ways they want delicate handling to prevent breaking. After this preliminary treatment, they can be finished off in many ways. (See Savouries.) Fish, Scalloped, a la Cardi- nal. (See Scalloped Fish.) Fish Souchet. —For any flat fish souchet, take soles, dabs, floun- ders, plaice, or any similar fish ; they may be neatly trimmed, and left whole, or filleted. Cover with hot stock, made from fish of tho same sort, with a well clonnsed parsley root, a sprig of thyme, a few pepper- corns, a little salt, and a sliced onion. Cook until the fish is tender, then remove it, and put in a deep dish, with the strained liquor over, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley being added to each quart. This is a simple dish; no other sauce is needed. Brown bread and butter should be served with it. Another way.—Boil a small carrot, cut it in shreds and add it with the parsley, the inferior part being boiled with the fish to flavour it. Some- times a little hot milk is stirred in first, to whiten the fisli; and for superior dishes the stock is clarified before pouring it over the fish. For fish other than the flat kinds, cut it up into neat pieces, and cook in the same way; small eels are very good. Perch, tench, &c., are good fish for a souchet, but give them tho usual preliminary treatment in the way of washing. These dishes are not very popular, but they can bo recommended as very light and easily digested, though not so savoury as many other fish dishes. Any left over can be made into a salad, or re-served in any way pre- ferred. Fish, Tinned.—Fish in tins, while amongst tho most popular ami useful of preserved provisions, re- quires tho greatest possible care in its152 Universal cookery book. selection ami after-treatment. We have elsewhere urged the necessity of buying only good brands of such goods, bear- ing the name of the importer or ex- porter, or a trade mark, such as many firms—whose aim is to supply good value for money—adopt. By taking this precaution, coupled with that of looking out for any bulges in the tins {see remarks under Tinned Meats in the chapter on Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery), the purchaser is fairly safe, and it only remains to empty the con- tents of the tin as soon as opened. To this rule, the only exceptions are fish in oil, as sardines, or potted fish in which there is much salt, of which anchovy paste is a type. Here, pro- viding they are quickly consumed, there is no harm in leaving them in the tins ; at the same time, it is better to empty those in oil into a china dish, and to add fresh oil; while potted fish in stone jars is greatly to bo preferred to that in tins. The fish in liquor of any sort, fresh herrings, eels, and the like, are those which most require at- tention ; they should never bo left in the tins; the same may be said of salmon and lobster. The latter are now to be had in lined tins; the lining is a patent article, a thick, white, paper-like substance, and as it protects the contents from contact with the tins, it is to be hoped that its use will soou become almost universal; it adds but a trifle to the cost, and is a guarantee of excellence and purity. Recipes for cooking and. serving various kinds of tinned fish will be found under their respective headings, somo in the present chapter, and. others in the chapters on Savouries, Pastry, and Salads. Fish, To Keep.—Any of tho kinds that will keep may bo treated as follows: — 1. If a whole fish, wrap it in a cloth that has been wrung out of vinegar; popper the fish first, tie or pin tho cloth to keep it on, and hang in a cool cellar. 2. Lay the fish on a dish, put a little salt on, and a very small quan- tity of vinegar; or if to be left for a short time only, salt does alone. This method also helps to “firm” and whiten fish. The dish containing tho fish may be set on ice, biit do not lay pieces of ice on the fish; it makes some sorts flabby. Always take the inside from fish to be kept, and after cleansing well, by wiping with a wet cloth dipped in salt, season it inside, after careful drying- In the case of a cod-fish, sprinkle salt over tho backbone; it improves it much; tho same may bo said of fresh haddock. See also Pickle for Fish.—By pre- paring some of the pickle (quantity in proportion to the size of the fish), and giving tho fish a boil of a minute or two only, it will ensure its keeping, and it may afterwards be cooked in any desired way, and served hot. The only difference will bo that tho usual flavour is made more piquant: an improvement rather than other- wise. Fresh water fish can always be treated thus. Fish, To Scale,—Scrape the fish with a rather blunt knife, for fear of cutting tho flesh, and as the scales aro removed let water from a tap run on the fish. Fish which are scaled with difficulty may be dipped for a minute in nearly boiling water; or the fish can be cooked unsealed, the latter being lifted off with the skin, beforo tho fish is served. Fish, To Skill.—Flat fish of all sorts arc skinned in the same way as soles {see Solf,, Fried) ; whiting and other fish of the round shape are skinned in the opposite direction. •Skinned fish take rather less time to cook, and greater care is neoded, as tho skin is a protection to the flesh. Fish, To Steam.—In the recipe for Cod a la MaItre d’Hotel wo give the method for steaming when an ordinary potato steamer, or any similar kind is used, that is, tho fish should always be placed in a vessel to retain tho liquor from it, when steamers with• 153 FISH. perforated bottoms are used, otherwise much of the goodness of the fish would escape, by running into tho water below, and be wasted. Some steamers are furnished with inner tins to fit tho outer vessel [see Steaming, page 18). But we will suppose that no steamer of anv sort is at hand : by a little in- genuity, it is very easy to cook the fish by the action of steam, and al- though a little more trouble, the result will be almost as good as if a proper vessel were used. For a flat fish of three or four pounds, lay it in a baking add to the fish, and pound again, with a little salt and cayenne and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix in the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, then pass all through a sieve, and leave in a cold place until ready to use. Fish, White, Quenelles, Moulded. -— Required : ingredients as in the foregoing recipe and some little moulds, well buttered. The annexed illustration gives an idea of the kind ; various sizes and patterns may be had, but such as shown are a FIG. 28.—QCENELLE-MOCLD. tin with a tumed-up edge, and set this on the top of a deep pie-dish, or a good-sized pudding basin or cake tin ; whichever is used, should be placed in the boiling kettle, with boiling water, salted as usual, to half its depth. Or, if a few slices of fish (or a short, thick piece), they am be put in a pie-dish, with just a little water boiling round it. In any case, keep tho lid on tightly, and replenish tho boiling water if necessary. Another way is to cook between two plates over boil- ing water (tee Fish, Fillets of, Plainly Steamed). Fish, White, Quenelles of.— Required : fhe flesh of a raw whiting, panada, butter, eggs, and seasoning. Free the fish from bone and skin, and scrape it; weigh six ounces of (he scraped flesh, and pound it with one ounce of butter. Pound separately fourouncesof Panada [see Foucemeath), useful size, either to serve as an entree or for garnishing large fish. They should be garnished prettily, according to taste, the materials at command, and the purpose for which they arc required. A plain decoration can bo found in chopped parsley, hard- boiled yolk of egg, and chopped shrimps; while truffles, lobster coral, chopped lax, and filleted anchovies, serve every purpose when elaborate dishes are wanted. Tho mixture must then bo put in from a bag with a plain pipe; take care not to disturb tho garnish; knock the moulds on the table (for tho mixture to sink well they should bo quite full); then dip a knifo in warm water, and level the tops. Then cook them in a potato steamer with a buttered paper over; or put them in a stowpan, with a sheet of paper at tho bottom, and boil- ing water just enough to float them; cover with paper (buttered), put thotJjDVERSAL COOKERY BOOR. 154 • lid on tko pan, and cook them very gently (they must not boil) until firm enough to turn out, about twelve or fourteen minutes; larger ones would want twenty minutes. If for an entree, there aro many ways of serving. They can ho put on a border of fried bread, rice, or potatoes (sec Index), and a rich sauce in the middle; or they can bo used for garnishing a Tuiiban of Fish. Fish, White, Quenelles, Moulding of.—Take a spoon, tho desired size; fill it with the force- meat, and smooth the surface with a hot, wet knife. Dip a second spoon, tho same size, in hot water, and with it slip tho mixturo from the first spoon on to a buttered dish. Proceed until all arc ready, then poach them in fish stock. This is done as given under Salmon Quenelles, and is the method to adopt when quenelle moulds aro not used. Fish, with Herb Sauce.— Take any flat fish, of a couple of pounds or so in weight; divide it into four fillets; lay two down on a flat baking tin, greased, and spread over them a gill of sauce, made by mixing half a pint of thick white sauce with a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley, scalded onion, and chopped chervil. Lay the other fillets over, cover with a greased paper, and cook until tho fish is almost done; then take the paper off, and spread the other gill of sauce on tho top; sprinkle with a little salt, grated nutmeg, and coralline popper, and browned crumbs, rather thickly; pour some oiled butter over, and brown up in the oven or before tho fire. When dished, put round the fish some croquettes of rice or macaroni of the savoury land; or some boiled rice mixed with a little of the same sauco, or some grated cheese; sec recipes under Cereals, Pulse, and Cheese, &c. This is an excellent dish for any meal. See also Sauce Heurace au Parmesan.—Tho tail end of a small salmon is very good cooked with it, just as the fish above ; or cold salmon, heated in the sauce, is very tasty. Fish with Tomatoes (a break- fast dish).—Required : half a pound of cooked fish (if ordinary white fish, mix with it a small quantity of bloater or sardine, but if dried haddock is used, this can be omitted) ; a very small onion, and a good sized tomato, with seasoning, &c., and some cooked rice or macaroni. Skin the fish, take away any bone, and break the flesh in flakes. Chop the onion very small, put it in a pan with an ounce and a half of butter, and cook it for ten minutes; cut tho tomato in dice, add with it a pinch each of salt, sugar, pepper, aud dried herbs, and cook until all aro soft; then stir in a teaspoonful of any flavoured vinegar. Dishes of this kind assist in using up superfluous vinegar from various kinds of pickle. Have tho fish ready heated in a spoonful of white sauce or melted butter, then mix it with tho rest, off the fire. Have the rice or macaroni on a hot dish, pile up the fish on it and serve hot. , Cold rice can be used up; it may bo steamod until hot, or can bo mixed with a little thin white sauce, or a spoonful of milk to moisten, and stirred in a saucepan until hot through. Flounder.—This is a flat fish, inferior to the sole, indeed by some considered inferior to plaice; it is plen- . Fio. 29.—Flounder. tiftil in the London markets as a rule. Any of the ways of cooking small plaice and other flat fish are suited to the flounder; grilling or broiling is a155 FISH, very good way of cooking them, as they are but little trouble, and tho most is made of the flavour. By rubbing with salt "the flesh is made firmer, and by soaking, as recommended for other kinds of river fish, the muddy taste is removed. Flounders are very suitable, and often used for a Souchet. (See Fish Souchet.) Garfish.—This has a strong oily taste, but as the oil lies in the skin, if that is removed the flesh is not to bo despised. The cost is uncertain, this fish being seldom offered for sale ; it is improved by a marinade of oil, vinegar, and seasoning; after an hour or two it may be taken out, and cooked in the same way as eels. Grayling is a pretty silvery fish, very palatable. It usuallv wcio’hs from Fm. 31—Graym.vo. two to three pounds, but is sometimes found larger. It abounds in our northern rivers, and may be baked, broiled, or fried. The cost is uncertain, being seldom offered for sale. Gudgeon.—This is a small, fresh- water fish, of good flavour, and diges- tible. In preparing them for cooking, wash and dry carefully, scrape the fish lightly, but do not remove the scales; dip in flour, or batter, or egg and bread crumbs, and fry crisply. Serve plain, or with a sharp sauce. Cost uncertain ; seldom sold. Gudgeon are used as garnish for large fish; the largest only being reserved for serving separately, as a rule. Gurnet.—This fish is of good flavour, and has. firm, white flesh; it has a very large head when compared with its body. It may be boiled, but Fig. 32.—Gurnet. is better when cooked by the following recipe. Cost uncertain. Gurnet, Baked.—Wash the fish, take off fins and gills, fill it with Veal Forcemeat (see also Herr and other forcemeats), sew it up, and skewer the tail in tho mouth. Cover with slices of fat bacon, und bako in a well buttered dish, the depth of the fish, in a moderate oven. Pour sauce over before serving : anchovy or parsley if stuffed as above; but sometimes sin-imp forcemeat is used, then shrimp sauco is best with it. Or, it may be baked without stuffing; it should be well scasonod inside, and brushed with liquid bacon fat, then cooked just as abovo. When gurnet is boiled, any nice156 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. sharp sauce is best with it. It may also be filleted and fried. To guard against bitterness, cut the head off before cooking ; that is where the bitterness lies. The fish must then be baked fiat. Haddocks, Finnan (or Fin don),—These are held in great esteem owing to their excellent flavour ; they are favourites almost everywhere, and are generally both plentiful and cheap, except in the hottest months of the Fio. 33.—Haddock. year. The genuine are known by their odour and peculiar yellow colour. They are cured in large quantities in a villago near Aberdeen. Those of a pound and upwards in weight are the most Satisfactory, and are improved by skinning. Cost, about 4d. per pound. Haddock, Finnan, Broiled.— Wash the fish quickly in warm water ; lay it in a dish of hot water, covered, for a few minutes, then drain, and dry it. Brush it over with butter or oil, and broil or grill for ten minutes if a large fish ; five to seven minutes for a small one. Serve with a pat of butter, or M.utrk d’Hotel Butter. Haddock, Finnan, Fried.— Prepare the fish as above, and after drying it, remove the skin : cut it into even-sized pieces, and flour them, then dip into Frying Batter, and fry crisply. Serve on a hot dish ; garnish with fried paisley. The fish may be egged, and dipped in savoury crumbs before frying if pre- ferred ; it is then a delicious morsel, preferable to many more expensive kinds of fish. The soaking above ad- vised prevents dryness of the flesh. Haddock, Finnan, in Sauce. —This is a delicious dish, and suitable for luncheon or breakfast. First, soak the haddock as previously directed ; skin, and flake, or cut it up. Have ready some White Sauce, in which a shalot, minced, has been boiled until tender, add a teaspoonful of white vinegar, and cayenne and salt to taste. Put in the fish, a pound to a pint of sauce ; cover, and leave for ten minutes, just under boiling point, then pour out on a round of buttered toast without crust; or a round of fried bread. Cut a hard boiled egg into slices, and garnish, together with some prettily shaped slices of lemon or beet- root. Other recipes for cooking this fish will be found in the chapter on Sa- vouries. Haddock, Fresh.—This fish is deservedly esteemed; its flesh is firm and delicate in flavour, and is usually cheap, about 3d. to 5d. per pound. It seldom weighs more than three pounds on an average ; larger fish are to be had sometimes This is a good fish for rechauffes, and it may often be substituted for whiting in forcemeats, &c. It should be firm, with undisturbed, even scales, and be bright in gills and eyes. It requires to he gutted as soon as caught, and if stale becomes flabby and poor in flavour. Haddock, Baked. -This is much improved by stuffing; after washing and drying, brush the inside of the fish with a little warm butter, and sprinkle it with salt and pepper, then fill it with Herr Forcemeat, or Oyster Forcemeat, or use Mush- room Forcemeat if preferred; sewFISH. 157 the fish up; if small, put the tail in the mouth; if large, truss in the form of the letter S. Then, either brush it with milk and dredge with flour, or flour it; then brush it with a well-beaten egg (a little left from the forcemeat will do, if mixed with a spoonful of milk), and coat it with fine bread crumbs. To do this, have plenty of crumbs on a large sheet of paper; take up the corners, and shake the crumbs all over the fish, coating every part, especially the head, which is always an unsightly part. Then lay the fish in a tin, with hot clarified dripping or butter in; baste thoroughly to commence (this is important); then cook at a moderate heat, from twenty to forty minutes according to size. Drain well, put on a hot dish, and pour brown gravy, or a good brown sauce round the fish. Or the usual sauces, as An- chovy, Parsley, &c., may be served with it. If stuffed with oyster force- meat, plain Oyster Sauce is suitable. Haddock, Boiled,—Proceed as for cod-fish, reducing the time in pro- portion to the thickness of the fish. If overdone, it becomes hard; it wants careful watching. A steamed haddock i3 nicer than a boiled one. (See Pish, to Steam. ) Serve with anchovy, egg, parsley, caper, or shrimp sauce. Haddock, Fx'ied,—Fillet the fish in the way directed for whiting; dry the fillets in a cloth, then fry them in the usual way, first coating them with batter, or egg and bread crumbs. Haddock, various ways of Cooking,—For all the other methods of cooking, the reader is referred to wiiiting and cod-fish ; a large whiting and a small fresh haddock can be cooked in precisely the same way; while as to dishes from cold fish, those from the above named answer equally well for haddock. Hake.—This is a West Country fish, very- common in Devonshire, where it is to bo had in perfection at a very low price; it is often called “ white salmon.” It would probably bo more highly esteemed if sold at a high price ; it is good cooked in many ways, but perhaps best when baked. If a whole fish be bought, the thick part may be cut into slices, and the tail end salted, but it is preferably eaten while fresh. It is of a more satisfying nature than many other kinds of fish, and for that reason is well calculated to take the place of meat in a meal. Hake may be treated like cod, or fresh haddock, but we give here a separate recipe, for a very excellent dish of Hake, Baked,—Cut from two to three pounds of hake in slices an inch thick. Required, in addition, six table- spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one table- spoonful each of grated cheese, chopped parsley, onion, and flour; a saltspoonful of pepper, and twice as much salt; some dripping and vinegar. Melt some clarified dripping; pour some in a shallow baking tin; lay in the slices after coating them with the dry seasoning; pour more dripping over the top, and bake the fish about half an hour. Send to table, after draining well, with a brown piquant sauce. The slices may either lie in the vinegar, or be sprinkled with it. Halibut,—This is a very good fish, lessprized than it deserves, perhaps on account of its comparative cheap- Fio. 34.—Hauuut. ness. Tho flesh is delicate and very wholesome, not unliko that of tho turbot. This fish grows to a great sizo, twenty to forty pounds is con- sidered the best weight; larger fish nroUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 158 coarser. The tit-bits are the pickings over the fins, the flackers, and about the head. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. per lb. Boiling is perhaps the least satis- factory way of cooking halibut, and the time must be carefully reckoned in the case of thick fish. Court Bouil- lon au Blanc may he used with advantage. If plain water be used, salt it well, and add lemon juice or vinegar. After dishing, brush the fish over with butter, and send the usual sauces to table. Halibut, Baked.—Proceed as for cod, taking any desired weight; it may be a cut from the middle, or near the tail; it should be cooked slowly. A brown gravy or sauce, or Shrimp, Tomato, or White Sauce, may be served with it. The tail end may he boned and stuffed ; see recipes for Con and Fresh Haddock. Halibut, Baked (American). —Wash and dry throe or three and a half pounds of fish; rub it well with pepper, pouf milk over it in tho baking tin until it reaches half way up tho fish. Bake moderately, basting with the milk; when done, dish and keep hot; strain the milk, and make a sauce by boiling it up with flour and butter, or roux, and flavouring' to taste; sen Sauces. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, cut lomon, and parsley. The milk may ho mixed with a little white fish stock, and used for egg sauce if preferred. Any white fish may be thus cooked; it is of delicate flavour, and somewhat resembles steamed fish when cut, though it is more savoury, and is easier of digostion than fish crisply baked by the usual methods ; as it will be noticed that in the foregoing, no crumbs (or anything to crisp the sur- face) are added. Halibut Cutlets,—Theso are very good, and should he cut from half to an inch thick; it is not desir- able to use tho very thickest fish for them. After washing the fish, lay it for a short time in water, with salt and lemon juice, then divide it, and wipe dry. Flour, and egg and crumb as usual, then fry them; or coat with batter and fry; or brush over with oil, and sprinkle with cracker, i.e. biscuit crumbs, and grill them. They may be dished with a sauce in the middle; and a cold sauce, as Tartars, can be served if preferred. Thick fish should be filleted. Herring,—This is a well-known favourite. Herrings are found in shoals, and are usually cheap; they are one of those dishes which are often enjoyed as much by the well-to-do as tho poor, though doubtless they would bo still more valued if sold at a higher figure: they are not easily digested, being rich, but whore they do agree, they are very nutritious. We will first detail a few methods of preparing fresh, or uncured herrings, which should be plump, bright in appearance, and with scales uninj ured : when many of the scales are off, it indicates that tho fish have been crushed in heaps, either in boats or baskets. The cost is variable; herrings may bo had some- times at a few ponce per dozen. Herrings, Fresh, Boiled.— Fow fish are more delicious than fresh herrings boiled. Wash, scale, and gut them, sprinkle a little salt over thorn, and dip them once quickly in vinegar; skower them securely with their tails in their mouths, put them into nearly boil- ing water, and simmer very gently until done enough, when they must be taken out immediately. Drain the water from them, and arrange them neatly on a dish; garnish with parsley or scraped horseradish, and send Shrimp, Anchovy, or Parsley Sauce to table in a tureen. Time, about ten minutes. Hei'rings, Fresh, Broiled.— Fresh herrings are better for broiling when they have been salted for a night, as this renders them firmer and improves their flavour. Scale and gut the fish, opening them veiy .little; score them in two or threo places, draw them through oil on a dish, and broil them159 FISH. before a clear fire. Move them gently now and then, to prevent their stick- ing to the bars, and turn often. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over tho herrings before sending them to table. The roes must be served with them. They are nicer if fried. Herring's, Fresh, Broiled, a la Farleigh.—Scale and wash the tish ; dry them in a cloth, take out the back bones, and, for half a dozen fish, mix together the following : one ounce of butter, a saltspoonful each of salt, white pepper, French mustard, and vinegar; a good pinch of ground nut- meg, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a fourth as much thyme in powder. Brush the insides with this, then skewer the fish two together, skins outside ; flour- them a little, and broil twenty or twenty-five minutes. Serve with a gill or more of Melted Butter, flavoured with lemon juice; or with Mustard Sauce. Herrings, Fresh, Grilled.— A Scotch recipe.—Scale, gut,_and wash the herrings, cut off the heads, tails, and fins, flatten them with great care, remove the back bone, and any little bones that can be taken out with it. Sprinkle the inside of each fish with a little pepper and salt; then place them together in pairs, and' press the two inner surfaces as close ns possible. Dip them in oatmeal, lay them on the gridiron over a clear fire, and when the undermost fish is done, turn them quickly and carefully, without separa- ting them. Serve as hot as possible. Herrings, Fresh, Grilled, a la Graythorpe.—Wash the fish; split them, take out the back bones, and as many others as possible. Re- quired, for six fish, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one tablespoonful of chop- ped parsley, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a saltspoonful each of mignonette pepper and salt. Mix tho dry materials, and sprinkle the fish, after brushing over with tho oil; then lay the halves together, and flour tho fish; grill for fifteen to twenty minutes, and serve with a pat of MaItre d’HStel Butter on each. This and tho preced- ing arq delicious dishes for breakfast, luncheon, &c. Herrings, Fresli, Pickled.— A French recipe.—Required: half a scoro of the freshest fish obtainable; four ounces of salt, warm and in fine powder; a large onion, half a dozen cloves, the same of allspice berries, a teaspoonful of black peppercorns, a blade of mace, two bay leaves, and a capsicum, minced. First take away heads and entrails, leaving the roes ; split them open, wipe, and strew the salt evenly over them on a dish; leave them for twenty-four hours, turning them once. Then drain them, fold them together, and put them in an enamelled stewpan, with equal measures of cold water and French vinegar to just cover them; slice the onion, add it and all the rest; bring gently to the boil, and cook for three minutes. Take them from tho fire, and when cool, turn all into a dry, earthen jar, with tho liquor, &c.; when quite cold, cover, and set in a cool place. They will keep very well, and furnish material for some of the most dainty little savouries at a merely nominal cost; for which see Savouries. Herrings, Kipperecl.—To give recipes that shall please all is not easy, for while some people find the flavour so palatable that they will not so much as wipe the herrings before cooking, others soak them so long that there is but little flavour left in them. To take a medium course, kippers should be washed and dried, then cooked like haddock (sec Haddock, Finnan, Broiled or Fried) ; or should they bo thick ones, and not too highly smoked, they may be wiped with a damp cloth, then brushed over with butter, and cooked before or over tho fire, turning them, and giving them a few minutes only. They are done, for Borne palates, as soon as hot through. Brush them with butter before serving, and send them to table very hot.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 160 Herrings. Marinaded.—These may be bought in tins, either in wine, or with tho addition of other in- gredients, as mushrooms, tomatoes, pickles, &c. For little dishes from these, see Savouries. Herrings’ Roes may be bought also in tins, and serve the same purpose of furnishing material for savoury dishes. They are often used together with the marinaded fillets above referred to. Herrings, Red or Cured.— Under this head wo will class all the cured fish, mild cured Yarmouth bloaters, red herrings, ham cured, &c., Kippers excepted. There are several varieties, and th'e mild cured are the most wholesome as well as the most liked, as a rule. When very dry or salt, the fish should be soaked for an hour or two in warm water or milk before cooking. Herrings (Cured) Broiled.— Split tho fish down; take out tho back bones, and tho roes; wipe the insides with a cloth dipped in warm water, or wash them quickly, then brush them over with butter, and dredge with mig- nonette pepper; wash the roes, and rcplaco them; brush tho outsides of the fish with butter, and “scoro” in a few places, then cook gently for ten minutes or more. Serve hot. Brush them over with butter last thing, if wanted oily looking. Another way.—Simply wash and dry them, opening as little as possible; flour them, and make an incision or two, then broil or grill. This is a plain method, but usually liked. Herrings (Cured) with Crumbs.—Wash, bone, and split some Yarmouth bloaters; lay on each fish a sprinkling of bread crumbs, with pepper to taste, and some powdered herbs; put before the fire until tho crumbs begin to brown, then brush over with butter (or rather shake a little butter over from a brush) ; finish the cooking, and serve hot. In clean- ing always take out the gut. Another way.—Drodgo tho fish with crumbs, then with cayenne and grated Parmesan cheese ; level with a knife, and add a little oiled butter; cook, as abovo until nicely browned and servo very quickly. {See Savouries.) John Dory.—This is said to take its name from the yellow tints on its surface (Jaunc bore). It is a compara- tively rare, and consequently expensive fish. The flesh is very firm and white. In fish of six pounds and upwards, the flavour is somewhat strong; four or five pounds and under arc considered best. Dory is not a good fish for broiling, but it may be baked, boiled, Fio. 35.—John Dory. or fried. It needs washing and trim- ming, and the fins should bo removed. It is unsightly, and for that reason a plentiful garnish is necessary. Dory, when re-heated, is apt to taste a little strong, and therefore it is preferably re-served in salad or mayonnaise. Or, if preferred warmed, flake and lay it in any sauce left over, just to coat it, but do not let it boil; the sauce should be boiled, and tho fish put in just to heat through. If stewed, it is advisable to parboil the fish, and finish it off in the sauce or gravy. Small fish only should bo used for frying. Follow the recipes given for Turiiot, and serve the same sauces; or mix the flesh of a boiled red mullet with a tureen of melted butter; this is thought by some tho very best sauce for dory. Lamprey.—This is a fish both rich and rare; it needs twice as much coolring as an eel, and cannot be eatenFISH. 161 too fresh. It is an inhabitant of the sea, but spends some of its time in fresh water, returning again to the ocean. It is regarded as unwholesome, Fic. 36.—Lahpkev. but a great delicacy. Cost from 8d. to Is. or more per pound. The recipes given for eels will serve for this, care being taken to cook it well, and when fried, it must he previously cooked by stewing or boiling. Lemon Soles.—See Soles. Limpet.—The limpet is abundant on rocky coasts, and may be procured by the aid of a good knife. It is con- sidered nutritious, though tough. Lim- pets uncooked are poisonous; they should be boiled in water well salted for a few minutes. Ling.—Ling is of the same species as hake, and, like that fish, is both cheap and nourishing. It is a native of the northern seas. In form it is not Fio. 37.—Lino. unliko the cod, but it is more slender, and grows to the length of six or seven feet. Its colour is grey, inclin- ing to olive; the belly silvery; the fins edged with white. The tail-fin is rounded. The ling is a very vora- cious fish, feeding principally on smaller fishes. It is captured in vast i quantities off the Orkney, Shetland, and Western Islands, and is also found near the Scilly Islands, and off Flam- borough Head. When ling are less than twenty-six inches long they are called drizzles on the Yorkshire coast, and are consumed by the natives, being thought an excellent fish. Ling is somewhat insipid when boiled, hut stewed or baked it is both palatable and wholesome; frying is also a favourite method of serving it. Follow the recipes given for Hake or Cod-fish, in cooking ling. Lobster.—This is a general favour- ite, though it is not a fish that all can enjoy without after-suffering, for it is not easily digested, and should he shunned by dyspeptics. The flesh of the male is considered more delicate than the hen; the latter is valued on account of the spawn and coral. Lobsters, when stale, or showing signs of putridity, are unwholesome fo a dangerous degree. The cost is variable; from Is. to 3s. may he given as tho average, though they may he had sometimes for 8d., or they may cost 4s. The size and the season both affect the price. In addition to the following, recipes for lobster dishes will he found under Salads, Pastry, Scrap Cookery, Savouries, and Souffles. (See Index. ) Lobster au Gratin.—Required : half a pint of Bechamel MAiORE,asmall lobster, the yolk of an egg, two small shalots, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a fourth as much essenco of anchovies ; salt and pepper to taste —mignonette pepper is nicer for this. Melt a little butter in a stewpan; put in tho shalots, minced, and cook for a few minutes ; add tho seasoning and sauce, stir to tho boil, and for a few minutes ; then put in the flesh of tho lobster in slices: that from tho claws may ho in small dice. Beat in tho yolk of tho ogg, and see that it is well seasoned. Wipo out tho lobslor shell, rub it with salad oil inside and put in tho mixture ; it will he higher than the shell, and should bo made smooth.162 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Dredge some bread crumbs over, and pour on a little oiled butter. Set it over boiling water for a few minutes, and brown the top with a salamander. Put it in a small dish, and set that on another dish, covered with a lace paper. Put a little fried parsley round and servo hot. Lobster, BashawecL—This is a very easy dish to make, and very tasty. Prepare it by cutting up the wholo of a lobster; if no coral or lobster butter be at hand, use some colouring, as the mixture should be red. Mix with it a spoonful or two of thick cream or white sauce first to moisten it, a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and anchovy essence, some black popper (it should be well seasoned), and a hint of finely chopped onion or shalot, first scalded. Stir altogether, and make the mixture hot. This can be done in two ways: if fresh fish bo used, fill the shell of the lobster, first buttering and dredging it with fine crumbs. Put more crumbs on the top, and bake it in a sharp oven. It is done as soon as hot through. If a tinned fish is used (and it answers excellently), substitute scallop shells of china, or use the shells of oysters or scallops, or a fireproof china dish, just as most convenient. If the top is not as brown as it should be, dredge somo raspings over, and put a pinch of chopped parsley on the top, or a little lobster coral, by way of garnish. Lobster, Boiling of.—Wash the lobster well before boiling, especi- ally if it be a hen, tie the claws securely, and throw the lobster, head first, into plenty of fast-boiling salt and water. If this be done life will be destroyed instantly.* Afterwards let it boil gently. When done enough, take it out, wipe it, and rub the shell with a little salad oil, which will give it a clear red colour. Caro should be taken not to boil a lobster too long, or tlio meat will be stringy. The Germans * This assertion is based on the opinions of (•inpetont authorities. put a handful of carraway-sceds into the salt and water. Time, moderate- sized lobster, fifteen to twenty minutes; large lobster, thirty to forty minutes; very large, one hour. Lobster Coral.—If required for immediate use, this only needs passing through a sieve, supposing it is to be used for sprinkling any sauce, fish, &c., by way of garnish. If, however, a good supply is at hand, it can be washed and dried, and put in a slow oven (a hot one would spoil it) on an old plate or dish, until dry enough to grate into powder, when it can be stored in bottles, and will be found very useful. In many books “ live lobster spawn ” is referred to. This means spawn taken from the outside of the shell before the lobster is boiled (the coral is of course cooked inside the lobster) ; when that is used, it is generally pounded with butter, and rubbed through a sieve, then put in soup, sauce, &c., and boiled until it turns red. It is also taken from the fish and preserved, when lobsters are cooked for sale, and may sometimes be got from fishmongers. The “coral- line pepper” referred to in some of our recipes is a pleasant, natural pepper, of beautiful colour; and as well as serving tho purpose of a season- ing, is equally useful as a garnish in place of the above; but it has no con- nection with coral, except its colour. For Lobster Butter see Garnishes. Lobster, Creamed.—Required: a large lobster, cream, stock, roux, and seasoning. Boil down the shell of the fish (see Stock, No. 15) and reduce the liquor to a gill; put it in a saucepan with the scraggy part of the lobster, and bring to the boil, then add a gill of cream, the firm flesh cut into dice, seasoning, and roux to make the mixture thick; it should just drop from the spoon; a tablespoonful of thick bechamel or other good sauce improves it; take it from the fire, put in a teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, cayenne, and a little anchovy essence, and somo of the coral. Have ready on a hot dish a163 Flslt. potato border, or rice border {see Index) : turn the fish into the centre, and sprinkle the rest of the coral over the bonier, garnish the outer edge with shrimps or prawns, and fried parsley ; or. if no shrimps aro handy, use the whole of the little claws of the lobster. Serve for luncheon or dinner. Lobster, Curried,—This is a plain method, for which tinned lobster may be used. Required, half a pint of Curry Sauce ; a tin of lobster, and some boiled rice (plain method), season- ing as under. Heat the sauce, cut up the fish into neat pieces, and lay them in for ten minutes, to heat, not boil. Have the rice in a hot dish, sprinkle it with lemon juice and a pinch of coralline pepper, and pour the fish and sauce in the centre. Lobster Curry(Mandarins’). —Required: a lobster of medium size, a tablespoonful of good curry paste, a pint of sauce, a pinch of cayenne and grated lemon peel, the juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of tomato puree, a bunch of herbs, a capsicum, two ounces of freshly grated cocoanut, and a half gill of cream. Put the sauce in a stewpan, creamy bechamel, or a plainer sauce of the same consistency {.ice Hot Sauces) ; mix the tomato, lemon juice, capsicum seeds, and herbs, with a little salt; simmer for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a sieve. Cook the cocoanut in fish stock to cover it; stir in the curry paste and the tomato puree; add this to the sauce; put the lobster in, and leave to heat through. Last moment put in the cream, separately heated, and add more seasoning if required. Dish as described in the recipe above, and chop the capsicum, then sprinkle the rice with it, adding some lobster coral, or a dust of coralline pepper. Lob3ter Cutlets.—Required : a small lobster, three raw eggs, a gill of any good sauce, bechamel for choice, bread ernmbs, seasoning, &c., as below. _ Cut the meat of the lobster in small dice ; boil up the sauce, and stir in the yolks of two eggs off the fire ; add salt, cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and tho lobster, with a little colouring; set away to cool; then take up tho mix- ture from a tablespoon, and form into balls of even size, on a slightly floured board. Beat up tho other egg yolk, coat the balls, take a palette knife and form them into cutlets; coat with crumbs, again use tho knife, and level the crumbs in every part. Then set aside, and coat again with egg and crumbs in an hour. Put the cutlets in a frying basket in a single layer, fry them in hot fat, and drain well. Dish them in a circle on a lace paper, or serviette; stick a bit of parsley stalk in each, or use the tiny claws of the lobster, or a morsel of macaroni, coloured pink (see Garnishes). Fill the centre with fried parsley, and serve hot. Another way.—Add to the mixture above a little lobster butter, fry and dish the cutlets on a border of rice, potatoes, or bread (see Garnishes). Put fried, parsley outside the border, and fill the centre with any rich fish sauce, hot or cold. If the latter, add it last moment. Serve as an entree. Lobster Cutlets (a cold entree). —Prepare the lobster mixture as above; when cool, make into cutlets, and instead of egging and crumbing, pro- ceed as follows :—Have a tin with aspic in a thin layer, just set; lay the cutlets on after shaping them nicely— using no flour, and making them small —leaving a margin between of half an inch. Then sprinkle the tops with lobster coral; pour more aspic over, and when set cut out with a cutlet cutter. Dish in a ring on a laco paper, the red side up, with a small lobster claw in each, or a bit of pipe macaroni, coloured. Fill up the centre with salad, mixed with mayonnaise, and garnished with chopped or fancy shapes of aspic. If there is plenty of coral, roll liio cutlets in it to mask both sides. Another way of serving,—Take somo paper cutlet cases (sec Fancy Paper Cases) ; put a little bed of dressed salad1(54 Universal cookery Book. at the bottom, lay the cutlets in (with- out coating with jelly) leaving a space between the cutlet and the case ; fill the space up with chopped aspic, and mix in a few shrimps; or colour a little mayonnaise green, and put it from a forcing bag, in a pattern round the edges of the cutlets, or here and there on the chopped jelly. These can be served for any cold collation, and are useful for such purposes, as they can be prepared some time beforehand. They should be set on ice until ready to serve. Lobster Darioles.—Line some plain dariole moulds, flat-bottomed onos, such as are shown in the next recipe, with pale aspic jelly. Put a star, cut from hard-boiled white of egg, at the bottom of each, and sprinklo the sides with chopped truflle; or it may be cut into fancy shapes. Mince some lobster meat, and to four good tablospoonfuls add two boned ancho- vies, sieved, two and a half tablespoon- fuls of liquid aspic, tho same of thick mayonnaise and thick cream, and a teaspoonful of chopped fennel, parsley, and tarragon mixed; very little of the latter. Mix well, and season to taste with cayenne, lemon juice, and salt, if required. Fill the moulds, and set on ice until they are .thoroughly cold; then turn out each into a little paper case. Put some green mayonnaise into a forcing bag with a leaf pipe, and ornament tho tops of the moulds; a little bunch of lobster coral should be piled in tho centre. The dish they are served on should be garnished with chopped aspic, chervil sprigs, and small claws of the lobster; or other small shell-fish may be used. Lobster Darioles, a la Clar- ence.—Take somo moulds as illus- trated below ; make a ragout, by mix- ing together some cooked asparagus points, ripe tomatoes in dice, chopped prawns, and cookod sole in littlo squares; then add just enough thick white mayonnaiso to make a creamy mixture. Lino the bottoms of tho moulds thinly with pale pink aspic, then put in a layer of the ragout, half an inch thick; when set, cover with more aspic, and let it become very firm. Next cut up some lobster, both the white meat and claws, into even Fio. SS.—Plain Dariole Mould. sized pieces, and season them with cayenne and lemon j uice; pack them loosely in tho moulds, then fill up with pale yellow aspic. When cold, turn out, and dish each on a cooked artichoke bottom, first spread over evenly with green mayonnaise. Arrange them nicely on a dish, and garnish with green salad, blocks of aspic, and mayon- naise, and prawns. Both this and the foregoing may bo served as entries for dinner, or at any cold collation. They are very pretty dishes. Lobster in Aspic.—Required: a lobster, aspic, salad, mayonnaise, &c., as below. Pour some aspic to form a thin layer on a flat tin, with a turned-up odge ; cut tho back of the lobster in slices, lay them on, and garnish them nicely, using the coral and any small green salad, capers, &c., forming a pattern according to taste; pour more aspic over to set the garnish, then pour another thin layer all over, and when cold, cut out with a fancy round cutter; take up the slices carefully with a palette knife, and set aside. Chop up the jelly left on the dish, with moro to make half a pint. Cut up the rest of the lobster (excepting the large claws), mix it with salad {see Salads), and dress it with oil, salt, mignonette pepper and vinegar; pile in the centre of a dish, pour some thick mayonnaise over, and ornament theFISH. 165 top (see Salmon Mayonnaise). Then put the chopped jelly round, and on that lay the slices of lobster; divide the claws, lengthwise and across, and place between the slices, 'with a few nice prawns or shrimps if at hand. If tastefully arranged, this is a nico looking dish, suitable for all sorts of al fresco gatherings, ball suppers, or any cold collation. Lobster, Tinned. — Generally speaking, the flat tins will be found the most satisfactory. We do not mean that the lobster in tall tins is never good, but that a few firms of high repute always pack the fish in flat tins, each tin containing the whole of a lobster; therefore, if there should be no coral, there will be all the red meat of the fish, and providing some lobster butter be at hand in the larder, the tinned fish can be used for any dish for which the fresh fish is suit- able. Then, in these tins, the fish is but little broken, as a rule; the claws are intact, and there is an appreciable difference between fish of this sort and the raggy-looking pieces that are often to be found in the cheapest brands. To serve this plainly, as a breakfast or tea dish, it should be turned out, and nicely arranged in a glass or china dish, the best pieces on the top, and garnished with watercress or parsley. Oil and vinegar, cayenne and ordinary pepper, should be served with it. Cost, from lOd. to Is. per tin, on an average. Lobster, To Bish.—Break off the tail and claws, and divido the tail in two lengthwise. Cut the head and body through, following a line between the eyes, then crack the claws. Put the head in the centre, the parts to- gether at the top, but dividing a liltlo at the bottom. Arrange the tail and large claws at the ends and sides of the dish, and put the small claws up- right, between the head and other parts. Use plenty of parsley about the dish, the centre of which should bo covered with a lace paper, or neatly folded KTvictte, Lobster Quenelles.— Required: four ounces of lobster, three ounces of panada, one ounce of butter, a tcaspoon- ful of cream, a tablespoonful of thick bechamel, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one, a pinch each of salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and cayenne, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Cut up the lobster, then pound it with the butter; pound the panada, add the cream and sauce, then put the two together; pound again, putting in the eggs and seasoning gradually; put all through a sieve, and use as required. If small ones, for soup or garnishing purposes, they can be put from a forc- ing bag with plain pipe, any size, sometimes not much larger than a pea; then several are put together to form a little bunch, but the method of cooking is the same (see Salmon Quenelles). A little lobster coral improves tho above, or carmine can be used to give a pink tinge. Quenelles should always be nicely seasoned, or they arc very insipid, and not worth the trouble bestowed upon them. Mackerel.—This is one of the most beautiful of fish, being brilliant in appearance when perfectly fresh; no fish spoils more rapidly, and to bo eaten in perfection it must be fresh from the sea. Its usual size is from fourteen to eighteen inches long, and under two pounds in weight. In some countries mackerel are salted, and if soaked and well cooked are very appetising; they are perhaps most relished when grilled or broiled. Cost is variable; whero caught the fish may bo had some- times twenty or more for Is.; but from 4d. to 8d. each is tho usual price in largo towns. Many who cannot cat mackerel with safety when cooked in tho usual way will find that if steamed (supposing it to bo quito fresh) it is as digcstiblo as some other kinds of fish; at tho same time it is one of a class of fish not digestible on tho whole. Tho flesh of a good mackerel is very stiff; when stalo and limp it Is notoriously un- wholesome. I n emptying and cleaning mackerel, takoeare not to break tho skip,166 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Mackerel, Baked.—Required : two mackerel, and some seasoning as under. Cost, about Is. 6d. Prepare the fish just as for Mackerel, with Onions. Mix the fol- lowing ingredients : two heaped table- spoonfuls of bread crumbs, the same of chopped parsley and minced onions, mixed with a mushroom, if possible (the onions should be scalded); a good pinch of cayenne, salt to taste, a little powdered or fresh thyme, and a grate of nutmeg. Sprinkle this over one fish, laid skin down in a greased baking tin; lay the second one on skin up. Grease a sheet of paper, put it over, tucking it down, and bake in a good oven for half an hour; loss if small fish. Have a hot dish, slide tho fish on, add their liquor to some good brown piquant sauce, as caper, mustard, &c. ; boil up and skim, and pour round tho fish ; shake some raspings over tho top, and servo. Garnish with fried parsley, or small onions or mushrooms, fried and glazed. It will be noticed that no fat enters into tho seasoned crumbs ; on account of the oily nature of the fish, none is needed. Another way.—Pour in tho tin a glass of vinegar and tho same of water ; omit tho greased paper, and baste tho fish, while cooking, with the liquor. When done, add some brown sauce; boil up, and serve as above. Mackerel, Boiled.—Open the fish just enough to take out the roe, and to cleanse the inside ; wash the roe clean, and lay aside; have the water salted as usual, but below boiling point, or the skins will break; lay the fish on tho drainer, and the roe by their side ; cook, after boiling point is reached, for about fifteen minutes, simmering only, and skimming well. The roe may bo replaced in the fish, or can be kept for other dishes. Drain, and lay on a napkin on a hot dish ; garnish with pnrsley or fennel, and serve the same sauces with them ; or gooseberry sauce is equally suitable. Sometimes tho sauce is poured over tho fish. In washing mackerel use salt and cold water; and in drying use a soft cloth; avoid rubbing, dab gently, or the skin will come oif. Always take the eyes out. Small, tender fish must go into water only warm, then they must be carefully watched. Time, about eight or ten minutes to simmer after the water boils, or less will do if very small. Steaming is a bettor method. Mackerel, Broiled or Grilled. ■—Wash and dry as above; open as little as possible; make three incisions in a slanting direction on each side tho fish; put in a little seasoning of salt, cayenne, mixed mustard, and salad oil, and brush all over with oil only. Cook gradually for twenty minutes or more, turning it often, and giving it a few minutes cooking on its back last thing. Put a pat of Majtre d’Hotel Butter in; closo, and serve hot. Or use a little Tomato Butter in tho same way, first mixing with it a saltspoonful of French mustard. The latter method is very delicious. Another way.-—Fillet tho mackerel before cooking, and serve devil sauce, or any similar kind with it; sauce ta.rta.re is excellent; a spoonful may be put on each fillet; small croutons may be used for garnish. Mackerel, Fillets, in Wine. —Raise tho fiesh from the bones on each side ; cut into two or three parts, slanting, according to size; saute or broil them until very delicately browned, then lay them in a stewpan with equal parts of fish stock and Madeira ; cook for ten minutes gently; lift out with a slice, dish them in a row, leaning one against another, slightly overlapping; stir a bit of glaze in the wine, and pour over the fillets. Gar- nish them with slices of tomato, cooked in a little butter without browning; put on each slice a little heap of chopped cucumber, cooked, and sprinkle with parsley and capers, chopped ; put between the tomato some lemon, cut first into thin slices, then each slice into quarters. This is a high class savoury. Serve for luncheon or dinner.FISH. 167 Mackerel, with Onions. — Required : two mackerel, twelve small onions, a large Spanish onion ; other ingredients as undermentioned. Peel, and fry the small onions; peel, mince, and boil the large onion in a little weak stock ; then drain it well; sprinkle with cayenne, chopped parsley, and salt, and stir in an ounce of butter. Wash and dry the fish, cut off heads and tails, take out the backbones, and lay them flat in a stewpan ; pour over wine and water to j ust cover; put in the little onions, with seasoning to taste, and simmer for twenty or twenty- five minutes. Have a hot dish; spread on it the chopped onion, lay the fish on, in contrary directions, then add to the liquor in the stewpan a hit of glaze, the size of a nut, and a teaspoon- ful of browned flour mixed with mushroom catsup; boil up quickly, jKmr over the fish, and use the small onions as garnish. This is piquant and very appetising. Mackerel so cooked will be generally enjoyed. When wine is objected to, use French vinegar and lemon juice, or any nice flavoured vinegar. Mackerel, Pickled.—Boil as usual; take the backbones out, and split the fish down the middle ; then, for four fish, take half a pint of vinegar, the juice of a lemon, a half gill of caper vinegar, a small onion, a bunch oi parsley, half a teaspoonful of allspice berries and black peppercorns, a few cloves, and a bay leaf; add to these three-quarters of a pint of the fish liquor, boil altogether for twenty minutes: pour over the fish laid in a deep dish, cover, and leave for twelve hours. Serve on a flat dish, with some of the liquor as required, and garnish with sprigs of fennel or parsley. Leave all the spices, &c., in the liquor, but do not put any on the dish. Mackerel Hoes.—S'ccSavouhies. Mackerel, Smoked.—See Sa- vouries. Mackerel, Stewed d. la Monica.—Make a pint of sauce (see Yacht Sauce a la Monica) ; clean and fillet a couple of fish, saute them lightly, and drain them well; then lay them in a pan, and pour the hot sauco over them; keep them at simmering point for ten minutes, then dish high in the centre of a hot dish. Garnish with fried croutons, of any desired shape; brush them with warm glaze, and sprinkle with chopped lax (see Savour- ies) . Mackerel a la Noiiah is equally good. Substitute the sauce of that name for the above. Use croutons for garnish, with here and there a prawn or shrimp. Mackerel, with Tomatoes.— Cook the mackerel as above; grill or fry some small tomatoes, and make some Tomato PuhIce ; serve in the same way as the above, and season similarly, omitting the onions only. Marinade for Broiled Fish. —Mix together a gill of oil, a chopped onion, a hunch of herbs, the juice of a lemon or some white vinegar; or half cider or white wine can he used-; a little salt and cayenne, or a few drops of cayenne vinegar. In place of herbs, some herbal vinegar can ho used. This is a French preparation; the fish are often scored, an inch apart in a slant- ing direction, nearly to the hone, before putting them in the marinade; they are then wrapped in paper, soaked in the same mixture, before cooking. Many kinds of dry skinned fish are greatly improved by the treatment; river fish of suitable size may be thus cooked with advantage. Mullet, Grey.—This is different from red mullet, and not so good. It is of variablo size and quality; largo fish may ho boiled like Con, Haddock, &c. ; smaller ones may he cooked liko Red Mullet. Court Bouillon au Blanc should ho used in boiling a really largo fish. Price is uncertain, lower generally than red mullet. Mullet, Red.—1 ’his is different from, and superior to, tho groy mullet; it is a much prized fish, and often reaches a high figure, though some-UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 1G8 times sold at Gd., or loss. Mullet is willed tho “ woodcock of the sea ” as it is served without gutting. The best arc rod, and short, with clear eyes, and Fra. 39.— Red Mullet. firm flesh. In cleaning them they •should ho very lightly scraped, and by pulling out tho gills, as much as ought to be romovod will come away with them. They are seldom boiled ; tho undermentioned methods aro prefer- able. Mullet la Francaise.—Clean the fish through the gills; pound the liver with an equal bulk of finely chopped parsloy, a morsel of butter, and salt and popper; roplaco it, close tho fish, and lay them in a shallow dish, close together, heads and tails alternately. The bottom of the dish should be well buttered. Then brush the fish with oil, sprinkle with parsley, finely chopped, powdered mixed herbs, and bread crumbs; sprinkle with lemon juice, and cook gently in tho oven, brushing over with oil a time or two. Serve in the dish, and add lemon juice and white wino (a glass of each to four fish) hoated togethor, last momont; pour round, not over, the mullet. This is one of the best dishes of mullet, assuming fresh fish, and atten- tion during the cooking. Mullet, Baked.—Wipe the fish (do not wash them) using a clean, soft cloth ; take off the fins and remove the eyes, pull out tho gills, then season lightly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Make a couple of cuts on each side the fish, and lay them on a buttered tin, or in a Dutch oven. Cook for twenty minutes, or more, if large. While cooking, brush over with oil now and then, and turn every two or three minutes. Servo on a very hot dish; brush lightly with a little hot, thin glaze, and put a pat of Maitue dTIotkl Butter on each. Another way.—Prepare as above, but put a glass of wino (to three fish) in tho tin. When done, finish off as abovo directed, and add the liquor in the tin to some good melted butter, about a gill, and put in a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Dutch Sauce is also good with mullet cooked in any way. Mullet, Broiled.—Prepare the mullets according to the first method above, and leave them in a mixture of oil and seasoning—to half a gill of oil, put a good pinch each of salt, cayenne, and white pepper—on a flat dish, turn- ing them often. The fish should bo cut rather deeply, in two or three places on each side. In an hour, drain the fish, and put in the incisions a little chopped parsley and thyme, well mixed. Then broil carefully; the skin should bo brown and crisp; care is needed to prevent cracking, and tho fire must bo clear, and tho utensil well oiled. Mullet can be grilled in tho same way. Tho seasoning given is for three or four fish. A pat of Ma'itue d’Hotel Butter on each fish will be one of the best sauces, or Tartars Sauce is good. Of tho hot sauces, Bordelaise is excellent. Mullet, Broiled, en Fapil- lotes.—Required : six circular sheets of white paper, six mullets, twelve ounces of butter, two tablcspoonfuls of capers, a saltspoonful each of white pepper and soluble cayenne, twice as much salt, and a small onion, scalded and dried. Chop the capers, first drying them in a cloth, and tho onion very small; mix with tho seasoning. Butter the papers, excepting round the edges; distribute the seasoning equally over the fish, lay one OR each paper, and foldpvcr, makingrisn. 1(31) tho edges moot. This makes a somi- oircle. Then bogin to fold tho edges of tho paper over ami over, until it reaches tho fish, lirush tho papors over outsido, especially tho folds, with oil or butter, then broil or grill care- fully. At tho moment of serving slit the top of tho eases, and send Caper Sauce to table, adding a tablespoonful of Madeira to half a pint. Tho abovo quantities of seasoning and butter must bo increased if tho fish ore largo. Mullet, Filleted, and Fried. —Take four mul lets; scrape themlightly, cut oil’ tin; heads, take out tho insides, and carefully preserve the livers. Dry them, and season tho insides with salt and pepper, a pinch of cayenne, nut- meg, and grated lemon rind. Divide the fish in halves, and lift the flesh from the bones; each mullet will inako two fillets. Dry and flour them, und dip them into well-beaten egg, thou into bread crumbs, seasoned. Leave for an hour before cooking if convenient. Fry in very hot fat, and servo with a sauce made by boiling the livers, then pounding and sieving them,'and mix- ing with a gill and a half of rich Melted Butter, sharpened with lemon juice or claret. In the opinion of some epicures, rich Capes Sauce, mixed with the livers as above, is the sauce par excellence for mullet in any form. Mussela.—These are a cheap fish of good flavour, and may be used in place of oysters in many stews, sauces, Ac. They mint bo well washed, arid the beard or “ weed ” removed ; also a small crab, often found inside. They are gritty, and in cleansing them the shells must be brushed, and the water renewed many times; or leave them under a running tap. Mussels, Boiled. -Take them from the water, sprinkle them with salt in a pan, and put a (doth over, then the saucepan lid ; shake over the fire briskly, and when the shells open strain the liquor, and after bearding tho fish, serve hot. If loft on tho lire a minute more than necessary they toughen. Tho term boiling is some- what of a misnomer in this and shniliu instances, ns no liquor is used. Mussels, Scalloped. &wScal- loped Scallops. Follow tho recipe, but moisten tho mussels with their strained liquor, and reduce or omit the white sauce. It is not necessary to add parsley. Mussels, Stewed. Sec recipes for oystors and clams. Another way of serving is to add tho liquor, strained, to some white sauco or melted butter; boat the mussels in it, season, and servo hot. First boil them in (he usual way. Oysters. These are universally liked, wilh rare exceptions. They are highly digestible iri the raw state ; less so when cooked, especially if subjected to great heat. “Native” oysters are tho best, hut many others, “ blue points,” &e., answer for cooking purposes; and oysters in tins are very useful, though not equal to fresh. Oysters are in prime condition when the letter It comes in tho month, though imported ones may now bo had all the year. Oysters cannot be too fresh; when eaten raw the sooner they are taken after opening the better. Their fresh- ness may bo known by tho force with which tho shell closes on tho knife; tho shells of stale ones “ gape ” very much. Lemon juice or vinegar, with whito and cayenne pepper, arc usually served with raw oystors in tho shell, but the truo lover of tho fish often prefeis them without any addition. Brown bread and butter should bo served wilh them ; and without going here into tho question of drinks with meals, we may remark that nothing is so likely to hinder their digestion ns spirits, cithc r raw or diluted. It is an exploded notion that “a nip of brandy digests an oyster supper;” on the contrary, if taken with brandy, digestion is re- tarded, simply because alcohol hardens tho oysters to u great extent. Oysters f170 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. may be kept alive for somo days, by feeding them with salt and water (changed every twenty-four hours) ; oatmeal is usedalso; it gives plumpness, but the flavour suffers. Oyster Curry. — Keduce the oyster liquor, and add it to twice its measure of sauce made as below; beard the oysters and lay them in to get hot through. They should bo first scalded as usual, and the beards stewed in the stock with which the sauce is made. Required, for a gill of sauce, a teaspoonful each of chopped onion (scalded), lemon juice, white wine, and curry paste ; tho same, or rather more, of white roux; salt, cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg, a few drops of anchovy essence, and a bit of apple pulp, scraped from a cooked apple. The whole should be cooked, and sieved or tamraied, and after mixing with the oyster liquor it must not bo boiled. Enough oysters—whole if small, divided if large—must be used to make a thick mixturo. Serve with rice, boiled as usual, or Browned Rice can bo sorved with it; either may be sprinkled with curry powder and lemon juico. Oyster Cutlets.—Required: a score of small oysters, four ounces of raw veal, bread, eggs, seasoning, and sauce as under. Cost of oysters about Is. 4d. per score. Scald tho oysters in their liquor; beard them, and mince them very small; then scrape the veal, adding the scraped meat to the oysters. Reduce the liquor to half tho measure, and season with cayenne, chopped parsley, and a hint of onion, first scalded, a little salt and lemon juico, then add an equal measure of thick White Sauce ; beat in the yolk of a raw egg, and stir in the oysters and veal, and a small quantity of bread crumbs. This depends upon the time tho oysters can be left before frying; if they can stand all night, a good tablespoonful or two will do; if only j ust long enough to cool, use double the quantity. Beat tho whole for a few minutes over tho fire, but do not boil it; fill somo cutlet tins, and when cold, turn out; thon coat with egg and bread crumbs in the usual way, fry them a nice brown, and dish on a lace paper, in a circle ; fill the centre with filed parsley. If no tins are at hand, pour the mass on a flat dish, .and cut out with a cutlet cutter, or an oval plain cutter when quite cold; or tho mixturo can be formed into small cakes; see Fish Cakes for the manner of shaping them. Oyster Cutlets, a la Danes- liury.—For these, first prepare about half a pint of Oyster Sauce, and let it get cold. Pound together three boned anchovies, a tcaspoonful each of lemon juice and thick cream, a little salt, cayenno, tarragon vinegar, and Fronch mustard, tho yolk of a liard- boilod egg, and a couple or three table- spoonfuls of any cooked white fish, whiting or solo for choice. When well mixed, stir in tho oyster sauce, and work the whole well together. Have ready somo cutlet moulds, as illustrated below, and put in enough Pin. 40.—Cutlet Mould. (Deep, straight, with round bottom.) aspic mayonnaise (see Garnishes) to line the bottoms. When firm, fill up with tho oyster mixture, first adding to it just enough liquid aspic to set it. It is well to test this by sotting a little in one of the moulds first over ice, as tho quantity varies according to tho weather. When firm, turn them out, and garnish the tops with mayonnaise of a contrasting colour, forming' any pretty design. Dish them down a straight block of rice (see Garnishes), and garnish with aspic and green salad. Serve as an entree. Oyster Toast, Plain. — Re- quired : a round of buttered toast, somo Oyster Sauce, made in tho usual way171 F1SII. but rather thicker, and seasoning to taste. Take the crust from the toast, which should bo buttered liberally; pour the sauce over, and serve hot. It is a good breakfast dish. Fried bread may be used instead of toast, and be cut into any desired shape. Oysters, a la Creole.—Put a layer of oysters in a shallow dish; sprinkle them with cracker crumbs, a few bits of butter, a dust of salt, pepper, and cayenne, a squeeze of lemon juice, then more crumbs; and so on alter- nately, fish and crumbs, the latter forming the top layer, over which more butter should be put, and it is prefer- ably melted; if put on in cold dabs, some of the crumbs are apt to get dry. Put the dish in a sharp oven until the surface is nicely browned. The liquor of the oysters may be used in the dish : or it can be boiled down until well reduced, and added to a good white sauce, as bechamel; or the liquor itself can be simply seasoned, and thickened with roux. Oysters, Fried. — These are sometimes used as a separate dish, or for garnishing fried fish. Thoy are nice coated with beaten egg and bread crumbs, or with frying batter. Thoy should be chosen as even in size as convenient, and dried well before coating; then, after frying, welldrained on a hot cloth. Crispness is essential, and a plentiful supply of fried parsley is the usual accompaniment. They are generally eaten minus sauce, but a good one, when preferred, is made by boiling dow n the strained liquor to a fourth the quantity, and seasoning it with anchovy essence, cayenne vinegar, and mignonette pepper; it must be served very hot. Thicken it slightly, if preferred. Oysters, Scalloped. —Choose small oysters; scald them in their own liquor, and beard them; then take them np, and boil down the liquor with seasoning {we Oysters, Stbwkij), until reduced well. Butter some deep shells, china or plated; lay in some bread crumbs, seasoned with a pinch of salt and pepper, and a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg; put in an oyster, cut in two or three pieces, then more bread, and so on, having bread at the top ; use three oysters, moro or less accord- ing to size, for each shell. Pour some clarified butter over, and brown in a quick oven. The oyster liquor may be mixed with a little white wine or lemon juice, and should bo poured over tho fish and crumbs after the last layer is put on. Oysters, Scalloped, a la Seine.—Reduce the oyster liquor, add it to an equal measure of white wine; reduce again to half; then, supposing there is a gill of tho two combined, add half a pint of Thick Bechamel, mixed with the yolks of a couple of raw eggs. Butter the shells, and coat with fine bread crumbs, fried lightly: then fill up entirely with the sauce and oysters, sufficient to make a thick mixture ; coat again with crumbs and brown in a quick oven. Serve on a dish covered with a serviette. Always have crumbs at the bottom, or the oysters will become hard. A few minutes will suffice for the browning. Oysters, Spindled.—Required: an equal number of oysters and thin slices of bacon, cut as nearly as possible tho same size; a little pepper, ground mace, and anchovy essence and lemon j uice to taste. Mix the seasoning; put a soupqon on each oyster and bit of bacon ; thread them alternately on a skewer, passing it through the fleshy part of tho oyster ; lay it across a baking tin, and cook in a sharp oven until tho bacon is crisp. Pass a plated skewer through the whole, and draw out tho first ono ; lay on a hot dish, and send cavonno and lemon juico to table. This is an American snack, and wo need scarcely add, a very good ono. Oysters, Spindled, en Croustade,—Required : a croustade, made by cutting a thick slico of bread the length of tho skewer, and tho width of the oysters, and hollowing it in thoUNIVERBAL COOKERY BOOK. 172 centre, then frying it brown ; oysters to fall a skewer, seasoning, and egg and crumbs. Thread the oysters as above (no bacon), seasoning them well; then roll them in flour, coat them with beaten egg, then with bread crumbs, or biscuit crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. Have the croustade ready on a hot dish, put in the oysters, after changing the skewers as above, and serve hot. A tasty snack for any meal. Oysters, Stewed. —Required: twenty-five oysters, a gill of sherry, a lemon, a few drops of essence of mace and cayenne vinegar, a little salt, and a sprig of parsley. Drain the oysters, put the liquor in a stewpan with the seasoning, bring to the boil, and skim; add the wine, boil up, then take the pan from the fire, and lay in the oysters; cover for live to ten minutes, keeping thorn just below boiling-point, then servo. If likod, a little thickening may be added to the liquor, with a few drops of an- chovy essence. This recipe hails from the other sido the herring pond; and the oyster-eater will hardly need telling that it is a good one. Oysters, Stewed, White.— Open some plump, small oysters ; rinse them in the strained liquor, put thorn in a stewpan with the liquor again strained, bring just to the boil, then take them out, and remove the beards ; put back the beards with salt, cayenne, and a bit of nutmeg and lemon peel, to boil until the liquor is strong; then strain it, and mix with an equal measure of Thick Bechamel ; boil up, and lay in the oysters to heat through, but not to boil again. Squeeze in a little lemon juice off the fire. A nother way.—Stew the beards down in the liquor until a little is left; add it to some Dutch Sauce or good Melted Butter ; put in the oysters to heat as above diroctod. Oysters, Various Methods of Cooking,— Recipes for patties, vol-au-vents, omelets, souffles, force- meats, and small savouries, in which the oyster plays a prominent part, will be found in subsequent chapters (see Index). Perch.—This is ono of our com- monest fresh water fish, and is con- sidered one of the best; it is met with in most of the lakes and rivers of Great Britain, and many parts of the Contin- ent ; probably throughout the whole of the temperate regions. Perch abound in deep, dark, sluggish rivers, and about flood gates and similar places; a fish of a pound is a fair size; throe pounds is thought large; but they arc found very much larger. The flesh is firm, of good flavour, and digestible. They are tenacious of life, and may be cairied I'm. 41.—Perch. many miles if packed in straw. When frosh, the body is bright and shin)’, and the gills rosy red. Crimping improves them. To scale them is not easy; if plunged for a moment into boiling water, the operation is assisted; when boiled, the scales are often taken off after boiling, as being the easier method. Perch, Boiled.—Wash the fish in warm water to free it from slime. Empty it, and take off the fins and gills. Tut it in boiling water, salted, then cook it, scarcely at simmering point, until done. Servo any of the usual fish sauces with it. Perch, Fried, — The ordinary plain methods will answer, but prepared as below the dish is superior. If small, after cleansing the fish, leavo them wliolo ; if largo, fillet them ; then roll them in flour, and wipe again. Mix ipFISH. 173 a dish half a gill of oil, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, and the same of pepper; put tho fish in and leavo for an hour, turning often. Then drain them, and dip into a well-beaten ogg, and bread- crumbs prepared as follows: to six tablespoonfuls of the crumbs, add a teaspoonful of herbaceous mixture [see Seasonings) ; a small onion, chopped finely, and a pinch of grated lemon peel and cayenne. Fry brown, and serve with any good piquant sauce. Fish for this dish must be carefully scaled. These quantities are for six or eight fillets. Perch, Stewed with Wine.— In addition to the usual mode of stewing fish (see Gravy for Stewed Fish) the following is recommended for perch. Equal parts of light wine and water, enough to cover, should be brought to the boil; tho fish should be cleaned and skinned, and laid in the pan with a bunch of herbs, a few whole spices, and an onion, and a mushroom if handy, with a little lemon juice and salt. When done, drain the fish, thicken the sauce with brown roux, first seasoning with salt and anchovy, and straining it from the herbs, &c. It should be as thick as brown sauce, and be poured over the fish on a hot dish. Periwinkles.—These are called pinpatches in some parts; although considered the poor man’s luxury, they may be enjoyed by anybody. If eaten while hot, just after boiling, with pepper and vinegar, they are said to bo very nutritious and digestible. Pickle for Fish..—Required : a quart of vinegar, an ounce of salt, half a tnblespoonful of scraped horseradish, half a dozen cloves and allspice berries, a couple of bay leaves, and a good pinch of celery seed and cayenno pepper, with some whole black pepper. firing the above ingredients to tho boil. \y ash any kind of fish, just as if for boiling, and trim it neatly; cut it np, and pack it in a stone jar; pour over enough of the pickle to cover it, tie the jar down, and cook it in a very slow oven (slow enough for a rice pudding) until the fish is done. Set it in a cellar or any cool place, and lot it remain until cold, before removing tho cover. Fish thus cooked is excellent for salads, or may be drained from the pickle, and sent to table with any suitable cold sauce. It keeps very well, and the pickle may be used again if reboiled with more seasoning. Pike.—This fish is found in most European lakes, particularly the north. It was long a disputed point as to tho pike being indigenous in England; it is now thought that there is full proof of its being a native. Its size is con- siderable ; instances of pike attaining a length of three feet, and a weight of thirty to forty pounds are not uncom- mon. The usual colour is a pale olive grey, deepest at the back, marked by yellowish patches on the sides, with a white abdomen, slightly spotted with black. The pike is so voracious as to Fio. 42.—Pike. bo called tho “fresh water shark ; ” it attacks and devours smaller fish, and often falls a victim to its own greed in its inability to swallow its prey. It should bo remembered that it is highly dangerous to swallow tho bone of a pike; it is very sharp, and of a pecu- liarly hard nature. Tho roe of the pike is made into a caviare, and tho flesh salted and dried in some countries. There aro various ways of cooking tho pike; if boiled, follow tho recipe on page 145, Tho term “ Jack ” is applied174 universal cookery book. to a pike under three pounds in weight, and less than two feet in length. Pike, Baked. — This may he stuffed with veal forcemeat, mixed with a little chopped chervil. The fish should be coiled and the tail fastened in the mouth. First brush with warm butter, then season well, and coat with beaten egg and seasoned crumbs. Finish off like haddock or cod, and serve with any brown piquant sauce or gravy. The fish needs careful cleansing and scaling. Pike, Larded and Baked.— Scale and cleanse a moderate-sized pike. Remove the gills, empty the fish, and lard it thickly over with strips of fat bacon (sec Lauding, page 13). Fill it with good Veal Forcemeat, and sew the body up with cotton. Butter a paper thickly, cover it with sweet herbs and a little popper and salt. Wrap the fish in this, lay it in a baking tin, basto well, and hake. Serve on a hot dish, and sond any nice sauce to table. Time: twenty-five to forty-five minutes. Pike, Stewed.—Clean and scale a pike weighing about four pounds, and cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan. Put with it a shalot or a small onion chopped small, a tablospoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of ground cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Shako these ingredients over the fire for five or six minutes, then pour over them half a pint of stock or water, a glass of claret, and a gill of vinegar. Lay the fish In the stewpan, cover closely, and let it simmer until done enough. Take it up, and lay it on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce with brown roux, stir in a table- spoonful of bruised capers, let it boil a minute, and pour it over the fish. Pike, Stewed, Superior.— Take a medium-sized fish, prepare as usual, and lard it thickly with bacon (see pago 13). Put in a stewpan a slico or two of veal and somo minced bacon; lay tho fish on, and pour round it a sauce as above; stew gently, then take up the fish (the tail should be fastened in the mouth), crisp it before the fire, while the sauce is finished off as above directed. Somo herbs and fresh vege- tables will improve the fish; they should be laid at the bottom of the stewpan. Pilchards,—These are found in great numbers on tho coasts of Corn- wall and Devon. They are very oily, and are only eaten in the uncured state in or near the places where Flo. 43.—Pilchard. caught; hut they arc cured in large quantities after tho oil has been extracted by pressure ; even then, they are very rich. While fresh, they may he dressed like herrings, and the pil- chards in oil—sold in tins, tho Cornish arc the best—are very useful as a breakfast dish, or they may be con- verted into little savouries in the same way as sardines. The cost in tho fresh state is uncertain; tinned ones are about Is. for the best brands. In Devonshire, a pie is made of pilchards and leeks, hut the taste is an acquired one, and it would probably not prove palatable to those unaccus- tomed to such a combination. The fin of the pilchard is just in the middle of tho back ; it is thus easily distinguished from the herring. Plaice,—Most people are familiar with the taste and appearance of plaice. If more expensive, it would probably be more appreciated, for if care is exercised in the cooking it is very goodFISII. 175 eating. It is good when tho body is thick and firm, the eyes bright, and tho white side tinged with pink. Tho dark side is spotted, and if the spots Fig. -H.—Plaice. are of a bright orange hue, tho fish will be satisfactory. Tho price of plaice varies a good deal according to the scarcity of other fish, as soles, &c., for when there is a short supply, up goes the price of plaice. It is, how- ever, generally cheap, from 3d. to 4d. pier pound, and sometimes lower, though it may reach Gd. When filleted and fried, plaice is perhaps served in its best form: it can be baked, boiled, stewed, &c., and may also be cooked in most of the ways given for sole, and other more costly fish. Plaice, Baked.—Wash the fish, trim it neatly, by taking the eyes out (or, better still, remove the head and stew it for stock), the gills off, and cutting the fins evenly round. When dried, lay it in a cloth for a short time, then melt some clarified fat in a baking tin; flour the fish well on both sides, baste it thoroughly, and cook in a moderate oven. It should he laid on a trivet, like a piece of meat, if a large fish. When the thickest part is white all through, serve, first sprinkling over some raspings warmed in the oven. Make gravy in the tin, or serve Brown Sauce with it. This is the cheapest and plainest way of baking plaice, but very good. For other, better methods, sec Had- dock, Sole, and Tckbot. Plaice, Boiled.—In preparing the fish, wash it in salt and water with a little vinegar. Cut a slit, if large, on the dark side, and put it on to boil in water prepared in tho usual way, white side up. Boil carefully, or rather keep it under boiling point; it cooks in a short time, and soon breaks if not watched. When done, dish, and garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve a plain sauce with it. We would recommend steaming in preference to boiling, where suitable utensils are at hand; and -where the method is not practicable for a whole fish, it could often be followed if the fish were cut into slices. Plaice, Broiled or Grilled, is excellent. It should be well dried after washing; this is important, and should be done an hour or two beforehand. The usual modes may be followed (sec Sole) ; but it will be firmer and fuller of flavour if un- skinned. Only a small fish should be thus cooked. Plaice, Pried.—This, if small, can be cooked whole, or cut into slices an inch or two wide; or large fish can be filleted like a sole, but is better not skinned. The black skin is not easy to remove; it is of a very gelatinous nature, and sticks tightly. If, how- ever, it is preferred removed, it may be done more easily after filleting, each piece being held on a board with tho left hand, while a knife is passed between tho black skin (next the board) and tho flesh. The flesh must then bo smoothed with a knife. Batter may bo used, if not skinned, but egg- ing and crumbing is necessary if skinned; or, owing to the watery nature of tho fish, it is sometimes not so crisp as it might be. When batter is used (and this is more economical for a family) the fish must be well floured first, and the batter made thick. Plaice, with Mushrooms.— I Required: two pounds of plaice, a pint of fish stock, half a pound of mush- rooms, seasoning, thickening, aud butter. Wash tho fish, trim it, dry it, and cut into slices an inch wide. Make thoUniversal cookery rook. 17G stock from the cuttings with the usual additions (sir Stocks), and strain it into a dean pan. Wash and break up tho mushrooms, or cut them into squares ; fry them a little in a bit of butter, then add to the stock with a good table- spoonful of browned Hour. Put tho lish in, season to taste, and simmer for twenty minutes or so ; pile it in a dish, and pour the gravy over. It must bo taken up carefully, or will break. A whole lish may be cooked in the samo way. A boiled plaice, with white mushroom sauce; or a baked one, with brown mushroom sauce, is equally good eating, and a change from the ordinary ways of serving; and brill, or other tlat fish, are very good so served. Plaice, with Tomatoes. Mix together a gill of fish stock, a gill of brown sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomato conserve ; cook in it some plaice prepared as above—a pound and a half will bo enough. When done, serve with tho sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and put round some small tomatoes, fried, or largo ones, sliced and grilled (sir Tom atoes). Other fish may be thus served. Prawns. These are delicious fish, more delicate in flavour than the shrimp, and larger. They vary in price, and somet imes reach some shillings per dozen, when scarce or very fine. When fresh, the fish are firm and a good colour. To shell prawns, “ take the head in tho right hand, and tho tail in the left; straighten the body of tho prawn, bring the thumbs near together, give tho right hand a little twist to break the tail shell, then draw it off ; it will leave only a small piece if tho right twist bo acquired.” Prawns, Croquettes of.—Re- quired : six ounces of freshly shelled prawns; an ounce of fresh butter, a slight seasoning of mace, salt, and vayenno ; a few drops only of anchovy essence, two ounces of stale, white bread, a little hot cream, a tablespoon- ful or two of Bechamel Maiouk, tho yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. 'The prawns should bo chopped, then pounded with the butler and seasoning; the bread soaked in just enough cream to cover it, and stirred over the fire for a few minutes, then left until cold, and pounded with the prawns and sauce, and mixed with the eggs; put in with- out heating. When the mass is smooth the fingers should bo floured, and the croquettes formed the size of a walnut, into round, smooth bolls. They must then bo egged and broad crumbed (another egg is required for this), left for half an hour, then re-egged and crumbed, and fried in a basket in plenty of fat, a delicate brown only. lUsh them on a border of potatoes, or fried bread, and pour round a little rich Melted Buttrh, flavoured with shrimp essence and lemon-juice; a tea- spoonful of each to a gill and a half. A small border only is needed. Tho middle should be filled up with fried parsley. This is a very delicate dish ; it can be served as an entree. Shrimps may bo used in tho same way, the quantity being increased in proportion to their size. Prawns, Curried,—After shell, ing the prawns, measure them, and make fish stock with the shells : to half a pint of prawns allow the same measure of tho stock; boil it with curry paste, &c. (sir Ci kuy SACCK),and after it. is sieved, put it back to heat again; add tho prawns, and simmer a short time in the sauce. Serve with boiled rice. Prawns, Tinned.—These are a real delicacy at a small cost, as valuable for garnishing purposes as for separate dishes. Some firms pack them in lined tins, already referred to; others tie them up in linen bags before putting them in tho tins. Many recipes for tho use of tinned prawns will he found in various chapters, but a hint hero may be useful: when they arc used in the place of fresh ones, by way of example, in curry, or soup, or any other dish in which stock would 1h> made first from tho shells of the prawns, as there are no shells for thoPISH. 177 purpose with these, additional 11 ivour must he given to the compound. A few drops of essence of shrimps or anchovies, a morsel of fish paste, or a filleted anchovy, will all serve the pur- pose. The prawns should not be opened long before they are used; if left lying about, exposed to the air, the flavour suffers, and they toughen. Prawns, to Dish,—Cover a dish with a serviette ; put a small basin or cup on, upside down, then arrange the fish round the basin, using parsley freely' as a garnish. Another way.—Cut thin slices from large lemons ; lay them on a dish with parsley to divide them; on the centre of each slice, put a small pile of prawns, leaving a margin of lemon visible. So simple a dish as this will prove that it is worth while to give some considera- tion to harmony of colours ; this costs hut little more than a jumble of fish put anyhow on a dish, while anybody' may prove the difference of the effect. Prawns, if large, can also be placed round a dish of cress, or any plain salad. Shrimps may be served in the same ways. For other dishes from prawns see the chapters referred to under Shrimps. Poach.—This fish inhabits shallow, gently flowing streams; the compact- ness of the flesh is supposed to have given rise to the proverb “ as sound as a roach;” it weighs, as a rule, under a pound and a half. Frying is the best way of cooking it, but other methods are employed. If stewed in brown gravy' or sauco, it is very palat- able ; or it can bo baked, if well basted. Poach, to Fry.—Wash and dry the fish, handle it lightly, and roll it in flour; then fry crisply', and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with any fish sauce, or with cut lemon and cay'enne only'. Pockling,—This is a genus of the cod and haddock family'; several species are found on the British coast, from the “ mackerel midge” of an inch and a quarter, to the largest, of eighteen to twenty inches. None are of great value, as they decompose quickly, hut when quite fresh may be cooked by the usual methods and sent to table, or made into soup, or rather stock for it. Pudd, or Sed-eye.—This fish is found in lakes, slow rivers, and fens in England and many other parts of Europe. It is shorter and deeper than the roach, which it resembles, but is said to be better eating. The fish is rich in colour, hence its name. Cook in the same way' as Roach. Salmon,—The salmon, according to Isaak Walton, is the king of fresh- water fish. It is called a river fish, because it is generally' caught in rivers, and the river is its birthplace; but the sea is its home and its pasture ground, and to this it must return periodically' to renew its strength, or die. In fact, it inhabits fresh and salt water alter- nately', spending its winter in the sea and its summer in the river. “ More- over, as the swallow returns to tho roof or shed that gave it shelter, so docs tho salmon to the gravelly' rivei’’s bed where it first saw the light.” This fact has been repeatedly proved, and involves important consequences. If all the salmon in a river aro caught, tho river will bo from that time salmon- loss, unless it can bo restocked with young salmon, which, after being reared in it, will at the proper ago find their' way to the sea and return to the river.178 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Salmon are never found in warm latitudes. They are distributed over the North of Europe and Asia, and are abundant, and even comparatively cheap, in some parts of North America. The price is kept up, however, by the facility with which the fish is packed in ice, and sent long distances by rail. The flesh of the salmon is rich and delicious in flavour; few people have ever tasted it in perfection, that is, before it has “ lost a tide.” There is then, between the flakes, a white, creamy substance, very highly es- teemed ; in a day or two this disap- pears, and the flesh w less delicate in flavour, though said by some to become more digestible. Many, how- ever, hold the opposite opinion, and assert that the oily taste of fish that has been caught a couple of days, is really due to the fact that decomposi- tion has set in, and that it is less likely to agree than when quite fresh. Few of us, unfortunately, can test this point, but it is well to remember that salmon is always more or less rich, and very satisfying, and should be eaten in moderation. In addition to the following, recipes for salmon will be found in other chapters. (See Index.) The price of salmon is very uncer- tain ; when at its cheapest, it is seldom below lOd. or Is. ; and early in the season, it is often 3s. or more per pound. Salmon, Soiled.—For a plainly boiled dish allow five ounces of salt to the gallon of water; let it boil, skim well, and prepare the fish by scaling and cleaning it; put it in the water, and at once reduce the temperature by drawing the pan aside; cook evenly and slowly until done. A thick piece may take as much as twenty minutes for each pound ; a thin piece may be done in little more than half the time : so long as it sticks to the bone, or looks raw in the part next the bone, it is not ready to dish; but as soon as the same appearance of opaque, cooked flesh throughout is perceptible, it should bo taken up; it loses flavour otherwise. The middle, and thick end of the tail arc the parts usually chosen from a large fish; or the head and shoulders, which is cheaper ; some prefer the tail end, it is sold at less per pound than the middle cuts. A small fish is often boiled whole; then great care is needed, or the tail will break before the middle is done. Dish the fish on a napkin as shown in the engraving, and garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve any suitable sauce, anchovy, shrimp, cucumber, &c.,with it, and hand round a dish of dressed cucumber. To carve the fish, cut through from a to n ; make cross cuts (as shown) from cto d; the former cut takes the thick, and the latter, the thin part; a portion of each should be given to each person. In the case of a very largo fish, it is also necessary to make one or more cuts, parallel with a and b. Salmon, Boiled in Court Bouillon.—Ace Corner Bouillon, and follow the recipe in making it, using a gill only of wino (no vinegar) to a quart of water. Then cook tho fish as above directed. Salmon thus pre- pared is generally coated with sauce, and served on a Pukee of Cccumbf.ii ; or a Tomato Pukee may be put under it, and a good tomato sauce poured over: one made by cooking ripe tomatoes in fish stock and light wino to cover, then sieving, and boiling up with a rather high seasoning and a little glaze, is suitable. It should be coloured with carmine, and boiled until well reduced. This makes a very excellent dish. Crimped179 FISH. salmon may be boiled in either of the foregoing ways; it is considered more digestible than uncrimped salmon; sometimes the slices are wrapped in buttered muslin, but where there is a drainer to the kettle this is not neces- sary ; in fact, grease should be avoided. Salmon Cutlets, Grilled.— Take slices of an inch and a hall thick; brush them with oil, and sprinkle with salt and mignonette pepper; leave them for an hour, then wrap them in white paper, oiled well. The gridiron must be rubbed with oil and heated. Lay the cutlets on, with a little space between. Put close to the fire (it must be clear), turn in a minute, then raise the gridiron, and turn every two or three minutes; they will take about twenty minutes, and must bo brushed over with oil each time of turning. They should be a nice brown when done, and quite crisp to the touch. Take about five slices for a nice dish, which should be hot, and covered with a dish paper. If a hot sauce is liked, a piquant one is best; or a pat of anchovy, Ma'ithe d’Hotel, or other kind of butter may be put on them. See also Sauce Herbace, Sauce Her- rac£ au Parmesan, and Sauce for Salmon. Salmon Cutlets, Savoury.— Cut the slices half an inch thick ; skin and bone them, then flour them, and dip them into beaten egg; next coat them with bread crumbs, made savoury by adding to half a pint the following ingredientsa saltspoonful each of white pepper, powdered thyme, and grated lemon peel; a pinch of ground nutmeg and cayenne, and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Let them lie for an hour, then give them a second coating of egg and crumbs, and broil, grill, or fry them. Serve with Taktaub, or other piquant sauce, and garnish with fried parsley. I-'or break- fast, luncheon, or dinner. Salmon, Fillets of.—Fillets of salmon differ from salmon cutlets in this : that in the latter the fish is cut into slices through the bone, but in the former the flesh is raised from the bone by means of a knife slipped along the spine. When the separation is effected, the skin is removed, and the fish is out into neat pieces of any shape and thickness that may be desired, though they are not often more than half an inch thick. Salmon, Fillets of, Fried.— Fillets are excellent if egged and crumbed, and fried in the usual way. They are nicer if the crumbs are seasoned with salt, cayenne, and herbs. Any of the fish sauces may bo served with them, a good brown piquant is perhaps best. Fillets of salmon are also very good stewed in brown sauce or Matelote Sauce. It is best to steam or parboil them, then finish them in the sauce, seasoning with lemon juice, anchovy, cayenne, and a little sherry. Salmon in Cases, a la Barri- cotte.—Take the skin and bone from a pound of salmon, the tail end; cook it by parboiling in the ordinary way, then drain it from the water, and lay it in a fiat tin, with a spoonful or two of light wine, and a buttered paper over the top. Finish it in the oven, or on the hot plate, hasting often with the wine. When done, leave until cold, then flake it, and season nicely, and mix with it some thick mayonnaise and a dozen or so of chopped shrimps. Half fill some small oval china cases with the fish, then add a layer of sauce (see Anchovy Cream or Lobster Cream, under Cold Sauces). Make the surface smooth, and put hero and there a morsel of green garnish—capers, chervil leaves, or small cross. Next cut some ovals from aspic jelly poured in a tin to sot; these should he rather smaller than the cases, so that an edging of the sauce will show. Lay these ovals, one on each case, quite flat, and in the centre of each oval put a round of tomato aspic, about the third of an inch thick, and an inch in diameter. Dish on a lnco paper, and serve as an entree, or fora cold collation.Universal cookery book. 180 Salmon in Jelly .—Required : two pounds of salmon, a pint and a half of liquid aspic, seasoning, and garnish as helow, and a nicely dressed salad (see Salads and Garnishes). Boil the fish, skin it, and divide it into flakes; boil three or four eggs hard, cut the white of one into long thin strips, and sievo the yolk; cut the rest into slices; wash a handful of small cress, with a little tarragon and chervil, shred the tarragon, and dry all well. Lino a plain mould thinly, sides and bottom, with aspic ; put in a pattern some slices of egg, with a few shrimps, and some of the salad ; put at the sides, an inch up the mould, the strips of egg, curling them round, with a shrimp or bit of grew, in the middle ; pour aspic to set the bottom garnish, and lay in pieces of fish an inch deep; then put in more jelly, and let it set. Then fill up the mould, loosely, with the rest of the fish, eggs, salad, &c., and add tho jelly. Leave until firm, turn out, and servo a dressed salad round the base. The sieved yolk should be sprinkled amongst tho gar- nish. This is a nice dish for luncheon in hot weather, or for out-door gather- ings. It may bo made more elaborate by increasing the garnishing. If carried all up tho sides of the mould, lobster coral, prawns, &c., being mixed in with the eggs, it is very effective; but made just as above it is compara- tively inexpensive and very pretty. Some shredded cucumber and capers may be mixed in with the rest, and dressed cucumber served with it. The ingredients must all bo ready before commencing, and tho fish quite cold. Salmon Mayonnaise.—For a large party, a cut from the middle will furnish a handsome dish, say from four to six pounds of fish ; it should be boiled and skinned, then loft intact and dished, and bo well coated with thick mayonnaise, flavoured with an- chovy essence. The garnish is the next consideration; some sliced cucumber (sec Cucumber for Garnish) in a row down the centre, with prawns, capers, and small salad, is suitable and effective. It should be borne in mind that in garnishing mayonnaise, anything of a non-edible kind should bo avoided, or waste follows: for instance, if sprigs of raw parsley were put on, they would bo left on the plates, with a good doal of tho sauce sticking to them. We mention this because wo have seen it done. On tho dish, round tho fish, crayfish or prawns may be used, with green salad, and fancy blocks of aspic. Raw tomatoes, sliced, and coated with white or green mayon- naise, then sprinkled with lobster coral or chopped lax (Norwegian salmon), are effective, and may bo freely used, together with fancy shapes of beet- root, slices of lemon, and sprigs of watercress or chervil. Any small salad should be lightly seasoned with oil and vinegar in tho usual way (see Salads), but much liquid must bo avoided. In hot weather, leave the dish on ice until tho instant of serving; to be enjoyed in perfection it must bo cold. For tho various adjuncts, sec Index. Salmon Peel.—This is the name given to an inferior variety of salmon, which seldom reaches moro than a few pounds in weight; it should bo dressed like ordinary salmon. On account of its size it is generally cooked whole, • and in tho shape of the letter 8. To truss it in this form, thread a large needle with twine, pass it through the eyos and under the jaw, tie it securely, then run tho needle through tho thick part of tho tail, and out again on the opposite side, and tie the thread tightly. Salmon Pickled.—See Salmon, Sficed. Salmon Quenelles.--See Lobster Quenelles. Use raw salmon in place of cooked lobster; omit the cream; tho rest of tho ingredients arc the same, so is the method. Thick white sauce will do instead of bechamel. To poach these, or any other quen- elles, have a saute pan ready, slightly buttered ; if they are not to bo shaped with a spoon, or moulded, use a forcingFisir. 181 bug with a plain pipe ; any size, from a pen upwards ; pour in boiling water to just cover, then draw aside, after it has boiled up again, and leave to trimmer only until firm. Small ones take four to six minutes: largo ones eight to ten; and good sized quenelles, fifteen minutes. Always rinse them in clean, hot water before serving ; and if fish stock is used, seo that it is quite clear. '1'hoy want rinsing, whether stock or water is employed for tho cooking. Salmon, Scalloped.—For this we will suppose some boiled salmon, with tho usual accompaniment, groon pe ts, to be at hand, and a little sauco, anchovy, or something similar; a tasty dish can bo had from tho fragments, by following these directions. Grease some scallop shells, and lino thorn with a thin layer of potato pastry. Fluko the salmon, and mix it with the sauco; rf not enough to moisten, add a littlo Ihiekened milk, it should ho a thick mince; the fish may be cut up small if preferred; put a spoonful over tho potato, then convert tho peas into a puree {see recipes), l’ut some of this over the salmon, and cover with moro potato pastry. Brush over with beaten i gg, and dredge with fine crumbs, and hike brown in a quick oven. File up on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley. There are a number of ways of varying these ; the tins can he coated with crumbs, and lined with rice, first cooked, or with macaroni ; the fish and peas go next, then more rice or macaroni, with crumbs on the top; with tho top layer of either, a little sauce should be mixed, and the scallops are best heated in a shallow tin of boiling water, and just browned in the oven or near the fire. Instead of peas, some cucumber puree may be used, and if sauce has to be made pur- posely, a piquant one will be found very good if the cucumber has been Used. Salmon, Smoked.—This is a great delicacy, and may be served as a breakfast dish, or a hot savoury. It is also a groat favourite with many when cut into tho thinnest possible slices arid served raw. Itocipus are given in the chapters on Savouries and Salmis. Smoked salmon varies in price and quality; tho best is often sold at from two to throe shillings per pound, or higher still when vory scarce. Salmon, Spiced.—Take of tho water in which tho fish was boiled a pint, with tho same measuro of good malt vinegar, six cloves, a blade of mace, twelve black peppercorns, six allspice berries, a bay loaf, and a strip of lemon pool. Boil all together and skim ; put in two ounces of butter, and pour it over tho cooked fish, from three to six pounds according to thickness, which it should thoroughly cover in every part. Sot it in a cold place, and when quite cold, cover it. It will keep some days. This makes a good salad, or may bo sent to table with some of tho liquor. To some palates it is pleasanter if two-thirds fish water, and one third vinegar bo used. Salmon, Pickled,—This is less highly seasoned than tho above, and no butter need bo put in. Tho fish liquor and vinegar should bo used in equal parts, with a few popporcorns, a clove or two, and a bay-leaf to each quart. Good vinegar should ho used in all such dishes, or tho fish flavour is quite spoiled. Salmon, Tinned. To serve this plainly, take tho pieces from tho tin as neatly as possible (the salmon cut- lets in tins aro generally but littlo broken, and may bo removed almost whole), and pile them domo-slmped on a dish, with a garnisli of groon round the base. Vinegar, both plain and flavoured, should ho sent to table, tarragon vinegar is a suitable accom- paniment; also black popper and cayenne. As a rule, the fish is pre- ferred free from the liquor in tho tins. If required hot, put tho tiiiH in boiling water for about fifteen minutes, then drain, and put the fish on a hot dish. Garnish as for ordinary boiled salmon.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK 182 Salmon, Tinned, with Maca- roni.—Take half a pound of toiled macaroni, a tin of salmon, half a pint of plain anchovy sauce, some bread crumbs, and herbs, with seasoning to taste. A dish that can be sent to table is wanted; it should be greased and lined with crumbs, then filled with thick layers of macaroni, moistened with hot fish stock or milk, and thin layers of the fish, divided into flakes, each layer to be seasoned with pepper and salt, and parsley or other herbs; a morsel of scalded onion, finely minced, is liked by some with fish dishes of this sort. The anchovy sauce should be poured over all; the top layer should consist of macaroni, well coated with crumbs. Pour a little butter over, and bake quickly until brown. When the oven is too fierce, a dish of this sort should be set in a tin of hot water in the oven until hot, and the water taken away in time for it to brown. This is very savoury; a little fish goes a long way thus treated. Salmon Trout.—This varies in size from three-quarters of a pound to two to three pounds; it is a delicate fish, and may bo dressed according to the recipes given both for salmon and trout; boiling is tho least agreeable mode. The flesh varies in colour: the largo fish are tho whiter and the least prized; tho smaller, although rod, are not so red as salmon ; tho colour of tho throat inside is generally indicative of that of tho whole fish ; the redder it is tho moro it is valued. Salmon, with Lobster Cream. •—Required: four slices half an inch thick, from the tail end of a salmon of moderate size ; some lobster cieam (see Lobster, Creamed), and garnish, &c., as below. Tako tho skin and bone from the slices of fish, lay them in a saute pan, buttered, with a glass of light wine and a little lemon juice; put a buttered paper over, and cook for ton to fifteen minutes ; then drain, and lay them on a hot dish. Boil tho liquor in the pan quickly to reduce it; pour it over the fish, then fill the centre cavity (left by tho removal of the bone) of each slice with tho lobster cream. Garnish tho centre of the dish with watercress, dressed with oil, vinegar, salt, and mignonette pepper; and put a littla sprig of cress in the centre of each piece of fish. Serve as dressed fish, or an entree. This is equally good when cold. Salmon, with Tomatoes.— Cook tho fish in the above way, there shouldbe five or six slices. When cooked, arrange them nicely on the dish, reduce tho liquor as above, and mix with it the pulp of some ripe tomatoes, sieved, enough to fill a quarter pint measure; put this in a saucepan, add a piece of glaze tho size of a nut, a good seasoning of cayenne and French mustard, a little salt and carmine; when thick, fill the cutlets, first putting a crouton in the cavity. Fill up the centre and outer edge of the dish with a salad of cucumber and tomatoes (see Salads) ; garnish with prawns or shrimps, and serve as an entree. Sardines.—Tho best are tho small sardines caught on the coast of Pro- vence in Franco. From a thousand to twelve hundred fishing smacks are engaged in catching these fish off tho coast of Brittany from June to the middle of October of each year. The French often cure sardines in red brine, and when thus prepared designate them anehoisecs or anchovied sardines. These are packed in vessels previously used for holding wine, and exported to the Levant. When quite fresh sardines are considered excellent; they entirely lose their flavour, and become quite insipid if kept for any length of timo. On tho Mediterranean coasts of Italy and France sardine fishing takes place in the summer months. Tho fish are cured by washing in salt water, sprink- ling with salt, removing tho head, gills, &c., washing again, drying in tho sun and wind, stoeping in boiling olivo oilt draining, and packing in183 FISH. small square tin boxes; the boxes aro filled up with oil, the lid is soldered on, aud the box is exposed for a short time to the action of steam or hot water. These cured sardines are largely exported to various countries, where they are considered a delicacy. The real sardine resembles a small pilchard; but many of the fish cured as sardines are not genuine ; they are either sprats, pilchards, or small herrings. Sprats are said to be very largely used, and sent out from our own country, and reimported as sardines. The best way of getting the genuine article is to buy of good firms and pay a fair price. In addition to many savouries, in subsequent chapters, giving various methods of serving this popular fish, and for which see Index, we append a recipe for Sardines, Curried..—Required : a tin of sardines, a dessertspoonful each of curry paste and fine rico flour, a few bay-leaves, and a little hot chutney. Pour the oil from the tin into a pan, and put the fish on a dish in the oven, ready for serving. Mix the rice flour with water to a paste; add it and the other materials to the oil, stir, and boil up ; then take out the bay-leaves, and pour the sauce over the fish. Rico, boiled as for other curries, should ac- company this. It is a good breakfast dish. Pilchards in tins may be curried similarly. Another way.—Add to the ingredients above named, three or four tablcspoon- fuls of brown sauce. This produces a milder curry, and one which agrees better with some than a dish in which oil only forms the foundation. Sardines, to Serve.—They aro generally served from the tins in which they are preserved, but may be vastly improved if put into fresh oil, of the best quality, and lightly dredged with cayenne. It should be remem- bered that any sardines left over from a meal should be well covered with fresh oil, and set in a cool place, Sardines, Various.—In addi- tion to the best known kind preserved in oil, there are 1 ‘ sardines in tomatoes,” “ sardines, boneless,” and “ sardines, smoked.” The sardines in tomatoes are excellent just as they are; but the “boneless” may be used with advan- tage in sandwiches and other savouries; while the “ smoked ” are of delicious flavour, and are thought by some to be less rich than the plain kinds. They are particularly good as a break- fast snack, if seasoned well, and warmed up, then served on hot toast or fried bread. Sardine paste is useful for sandwiches, &c. It is sold in small tins, the price of ordinary potted meats and fish. Scad (or Horse Mackerel).— This fish is found on the south-western shores of Europe, but is rare in the Fio. 47.—Scad. north; it appears in largo shoals, and is caught in immense quantities, and salted, in which state it is in demand as an article of food. Its flavour is not unlike that of the mackerel. Scalloped Fisk a la Cardinal. —Required : half a pint of Sauce a la Cardinal, an egg, a pound of raw, white fish, and. seasoning, &c., as below. Rone the fish; steam it; skin it while hot, and flake it nicely; any white, flat fish doos, or whiting or haddock. Add it to the sauce, made as directed in the recipe, but with twico the quantity of arrowroot. Butter a fireproof china dish; put some bread- crumbs at the bottom; put a littleUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 184 chopped parsley next, then the fish mixture, with more crumbs, and brush them over with clarified butter. Put it in a moderate oven until light brown on the top. Beat up the white of the egg to a froth, add a pinch of cayenne, and a little carmine, and put it from a hag with a small rose pipe, in any desired pattern over the sur- face of the fish. Sot the dish over a vessel of boiling water for a minute or two, and hold a salamander over the top; it must not ho very hot, the egg wants cooking as well us slightly browning. Last thing, put a few small, prettily-shaped croutons about the dish, and sprinkle them with lobster coral or coralline pepper. Scallop.—This is a fish somewhat similar to an oyster in shape, but larger; it tastes rather like a crab. It may ho served in various ways, and may enter into the composition of fish pics. The deep shells should bo pre- served, as they are useful for sending “ scalloped fish ” to table; any kind may be prepared and served in them. We would add that scallops, when not in good condition, are most objection- able in flavour, and also very unwhole- some. Cost, about a penny each. Scallops, Scalloped.—Take the scallops as fresh as possible; open, and take them from the shells; trim away the black part, leaving only the yellow and white, rinse them in water and a drop of lemon juice, drain, and dry them ; then cut them up. Brush and dry the deep shells, butter the insides, and sprinkle them with grated or sieved bread-crumbs ; mix the fish with a third their hulk of bread- crumbs, some chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and (to a dozen scallops) a gill or so of melted butter, or any white sauce. This is a vast improvement on scallops prepared with dry crumbs. Fill the shells, level the surface, and squeezo a little lemon juice over each; dredge with more crumbs, and pour clarified butter over, then bake brown in a sharp oven or before the fire. Tho shells can be used again. To slew scallops, follow the recipes for other shell fish. Shacl.—This is a salt water fish, moro used in France than here. It varies in price, but when plentiful is usually cheap. It may be cooked by boiling, baking, frying, stewing, &c. Abroad, it is often stewed in the lightest wines of the country, and served covered in bechamel; a very good dish is the result. Shacl, Boiled.-Stuff a small fish with either of the usual fish force- meats (plain Kerb answers very well); sow it up, and score the flesh a few times; brush with oil, lemon juice, and cayenne, and cover with greased paper; cook before a gentle fire; or, prepare it in just the same way, and bake. Serve with sharp brown sauce, or sorrel puree. Larger fish should bo divided for boiling. Shad, Pried.—Slice and dry tho fish, also the roe; egg and crumb the slices, and fry brown ; serve the slices garnished with roe. Bitowx Sauce should go with this; a very delicious one is Bitowx Mushroom, less known perhaps as a fish concomitant than it deserves. The next best is Caver, or a nice brown sauce, flavoured with good mushroom ketchup ; and we may hero remark that while pure ketchup is a valuable sauce, some of the compounds sold bv the name, are sufficient to spoil any dish. If not homo made, the best oniy should be bought. Shrimps.—The best known aro the brown and rod; the former is tho more highly flavoured; the red, or185 FISH. rather the pink shrimp, is slimmer anil usually smaller than the brown. When freshly boiled the shrimp is tasty, forms a cheap relish, and may bo used in many dishes. Stale fish are not digestible : if they aro clammy to the touch, and give out an unmistakable smell, of a pungent kind, they should be discarded. For various dishes from shrimps, see Sauces, Hors d’CEuvres, Salads, Savouries, Pastry, and Forcemeats. To shell shrimps quickly is not so easy as might be supposed. For brown shrimps, “ take the head between the right finger and thumb, and with the left finger and thumb- nail raise on each side the shell of the tail nearest to the head, pinch the tail, and the shell will come away. ” If at all stale, they will not shell easily. To shell red ones, see Prawns. Skate.—This is of the ray tribe, is good and wholesome, and is fairly cheap as a rule. It is moro highly valued in France than in England. The youDg fish arc called maids, and aro very delicate. Skate is generally skinned, however it is to be dressed ; its flavour is improved by crimping, but it will not keep so well; in cool weather, uncrimped, it may bo kept for a couple of days. The brown side should look healthyr, and the under side of a creamy whiteness. It varies much in quality, and if bad or out of season, is one of the most unwholesome of the finny' tribe. The larger fish are more economical, having moro flesh in pro- portion to gristle. The very' young ones are excellent crimped and fried. The liver of the fish is valued ; it is boiled and added to the sauce very often. Average cost, 6d. to lOd. per pound. Skate, Boiled.—If boiled in Court Bouillon, the skate is prefer- ably left unskinned; when done, the black skin should be taken off. The fish should bo cut into square pieces, some thick, and some from the thin part; the latter, of course, take the shorter time, from fifteen to twenty- five minutes. As to the heat of the water, many assert that for skate cold water is indispensable; others hold the opposite opinion; we recommend that the water be boiling to start with, and reduced at once to simmering point. When the fish is done, drain, and pour Black Butter all over it. Skate, Crimped.—This is gener- ally sold in slices with a bit of liver in each, tied or fastened in a roll. These may bo cooked as they' are, or cut into narrower strips, and refastenod. They should bo put into cold water to cover, with a little vinegar and salt for an hour before boiling, then drained, after boiling as above directed, and served with the same sauce, or brown caper sauce. Another may.—This is very' delicato eating. Have ready enough fish stock to cover the fish ; to a quart, ndd half a tablespoonful each of salt and lemon juice, a sliced carrot and an onion, half a dozen peppercorns, and a sprig of parsley. Boil it up, skim well, lay in the fish, and cook gently. Irish tho fish in a pile, and pour overJ 186 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. it tomato or parsley sauce, or melted butter, flavoured with lemon juice and herbal vinegar. The fish liquor may be used for soup or souchet. Skate, Curried.—Make a pint of Curry Sauce : when hot, add a pound or more of skate cut into inch squares, or a trifle larger. In making the sauce, use stock made from the trim- mings of the skate. Boil for twenty minutes or so, taking care the fish does not fall to pieces ; add to the sauce a little tomato conserve, or sauce, and a spoonful of any nice flavoured vinegar. Serve on a hot dish. This is a favourite dish. Skate, Fried.—Prepare the fish as for Crimped Skate, but do not rolltho pieces. Dry them well, and leave for awhile, then flour and fry in the usual way if thin; if thick, fish which has been parboiled answers better. The fat should bn very hot, and the fish well browned and crisped. Tartare Sauce, hot or cold, is suitable; and fried parsley is an indispensable garnish. Skate with Parmesan.—Re- quired : half a pint of White Sauce, a couple of ounces of grated Parmesan, half a pint of stock from skate, trim- mings, a good seasoning of white pepper, salt., and cayenne, two eggs, and a gill of cream, bread-crumbs, and butter. Prepare the fish as for curry ; cook it in the fish stock; add the sauce, cheese, cream, and eggs (yolks only) when the fish is done; pour all on a hot dish, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, and a little more cheese ; then pour over some oiled butter. Brown before a sharp fire, or in a hot oven, and servo instantly. Almost any sort of fish is nice cooked in this way. It may bo served as it is, or garnished with hard boiled egg in slices, and sliced lemons; or sliced tomatoes, grilled, and sprinkled with grated cheoso and chopped parsley may be used. About a pound and a half to two pounds of skate will be required for the above dish. Smelt.—This is a small, delicately flavoured fish, highly esteemed, and with a very pleasant odour when quite fresh; said by some to resemble the cucumber, by others, the violet; but this passes off in twelve hours or so after it is caught. Smelts are much used as garnish for large fish. When cleansing them, handle carefully, take out the gills and the inside with them; leave tho roe; dry them on a soft cloth, trim them neatly, and put in a cool place if not ready to cook them. Unless for invalids, smelts are seldom served plainly boiled. When good, the body will be silvery, tho gills red, and tho eyes full and bright. Cost, about 2d. each. The true smelt is said to bo confined to tho western and eastern coasts of Britain. Smelts, Baked. — Prepare as above, cut the fins closely with scissors, and lay the fish flat in a baking dish which has been buttered. Mix to- gether a glass of light wine, a little lemon juice and essence of anchovy; pour it in the tin. Then mix a large tablcspoonful of bread-crumbs, with chopped parsley and powdered thyme, a little salt and cayenne; brush tho fish with oiled butter, sprinkle with the crumbs, and level them on tho top; then pour over a little more butter, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes, until nicely browned. Send to table in the dish they are baked in, with no other sauce but that in the dish. A fireproof china dish is nicest for this. The fish, about six, should be put close together. Another way. — To convert tho foregoing into Smelts au Gratin, cover the bottom of the dish with the crumbs prepared as above, but with the addition of a morsel of chopped shalot. Finish off in the same way. Smelts, Fried.—Trim and dry them, and flour thorn well, then cook them as they aro, or coat them with187 FISH. egg and bread-crumbs. Use a frying- basket if handy; if not, cook them in hot fat to a golden brown, and remove them with a fish slice; drain them carefully, dish and garnish with fried parsley, with slices of lemon in between; or uso fancy-shaped slices of cucumber. Send sauce to table, hot Ccccmber, Anchovy, or Shrimp ; or any of the cold sauces ; Tahtare is suitable, and usually liked. When these or other small fish are served for breakfast, send no sauce to table: only cut lemon and cayenne; assuming that Harvey, or some other good bottled sauce finds a “ standing ” place on the table, together with a chutney, or ketchup. Smelts, Grilled or Broiled. —Flour them after drying, brush over with oil or oiled butter, and cook quickly. No sauce is needed; only cut lemon and cayenne. Sole.—This is a general favourite, its only drawback being its price. It is never really cheap, and is often very expensive; and although it furnishes scores of dainty dishes of the class known as “ dressed fish,” it is also Fro. 50.—Sole. a typical invalid's fish, ranking next to the whiting in the ease with which it can be digested. Soles may be bought alive sometimes, in fishing centres; if killed and cooked at once, they urc I then in perfection, though in cold weather they may be kept for a couple of days. Soles vary greatly in size, from tiny slips to fish of three to four pounds each; when largo, they may be served whole in the same way as turbot. It is customary to take off the skin on one or both sides; if filleted, they are skinned both sides ; but doubtless the sole is robbed of flavour, though improved in appear- ance by the process. When fresh, the fish is firm, and the under side of a creamy whiteness. The small soles are sweet in flavour, but medium-sized ones are best for filleting, and for many dishes when served whole. Cost, very uncertain; from Is. to 2s. per pound is the average. Lemon Soles are a cheaper kind of soles, but very good eating. One skin is darker than the other, but not black like a sole proper. To bo in perfection they must be fresh, and although they may bo prepared in any of the ways given for sole, they aro very nice cooked plainly, with both the skins left on. They vary in price, may sometimes bo had for 4d. or Gd. per pound, or they may cost Is. When large, they are ex- cellent if cooked and served like a turbot. If not skinned, the white side should be rubbed with salt, and rinsed after scraping well, and rubbed with lemon juice or vinegar to whiten it. Sole an Gratin.—Required : from three to four ounces of mush- rooms, a tablospoonful of parsley, and two ounces of shalot. Peel the mushrooms and tlio shalot, and wash the parsley, then mineo tho ingredi- ents separately. Put half an ounce of188 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. buttor into a saucepan with the mincod shalot, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch of salt. Stir this briskly over the tiro for five minutes, add tho parsley and tho mushrooms, and stir the mixture for five minutes longer; then pouritout. Butter a baking dish (Fig. 51) rather thickly, lay the herbs in it, place upon them a sole, neatly filleted and trimmed, then laid together in shape, and cover with finely-gratod bread- crumbs. Put little pieces of butter hero and there upon the fish, moisten it with a glassful of light wine, a tea- spoonful of anchovy essence, and a tea- spoonful of ketchup. Bake the solo in a moderate oven. Serve it very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. If the surface is not sufficiently browned, hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over it for three or four minutes. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Sole an Gratin, a la Fran- 9ai.se.—Mix together parsley, mush- rooms, and shalot as above; add a tablospoonful or two of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a slice of bacon in tiny dice ; buttor tho dish, lay the seasoning on, then put on the fish, whole or as above; sprinkle it with a little of the samo seasoning as you put below', then pour over it a glass of whito wine and a littlo good fish stock; sprinkle more bread-crumbs over, and put bits of buttor on; bake moderately, and servo hot in tho samo dish. If it becomes too dry, add a littlo more stock. If liked, garnish with glazed mushrooms, or a few prawns, and fried parsloy. Sole au Vin Blanc.—Take tho fillets from a large, skinned sole ; cut them through again, making eight; season the insido with lemon juice, salt and cayenne; roll up, beginning with the narrow end, and tie with thread. Lay them in a buttered tin, squeeze a littlo lemon juice over, and pour in a gill of white wine ; lay a buttered paper over, and cook until done, then put aside to cool; reduce the liquor in tho pan hy quick boiling, add it to a gill of creamy bechmncb and season delicately. When quite cold, put each fillet (after untying) in an oval ramekin case of white china, on tho top of a small quantity of dressed salad (any nico, plain kind, lettuce, cucumber, cress, &c.) ; put on a little of the above sauce, then coat each with thick mayonnaise. Have ready some fish aspic, flavoured with whito w'ine ; colour it pink, and pour in a shallow tin. When set, chop it up, and use it for orna- menting tho tops of the fillets; then sprinkle over some chopped capers, and tiny leaves of cress and cher- vil, with a stoned olive, blanched, and cut small; the one olive is suf- ficient for the eight fillets. Serve as an entree. These are very pretty ; the combination of colours being ef- fective, while the tasto of tho dish equals its appearance. Sole, Baked.—Take a thick and very fresh solo, skin, and trim it, wipo it dry with a soft cloth, and if convenient let it lie folded in this in a cool place for an hour or more before dressing. Season lightly with salt and pepper, flour well, and egg and bread-crumb the sole. Lay it in a buttered baking-dish, put little pieces of butter hero and there upon it, and bako in a moderate oven. Shake the dish occasionally to keep the fish from sticking to the bottom. When done enough, lay it before tho fire for a few minutes to drain tho fat from it. Put it on a hot dish, covered with a napkin, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send Melted Better or any nice sauce to table in a tureen; or make sauce by mixing tho gravy which flows from the fish with a littlo lemon juice, a tcaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and some fish stock ; thicken, and boil up. A glass of wino is sometimes added to sauce thus mado. If more than one solo is to be baked, they must be dono in single layers, that is, they must not bo laid ono upon another. Time, ton to twenty minutes,Another teat/.—Mix with the bread- crumbs a small onion, scalded, and .chopped as finely as possible ; or mix □aushroom powder with them; in the 1 latter case, serve with brown niush- I.-oom sauce, mixed with the liquor :rom the baking-tin. This is very savoury. May be served for lun- cheon or dinner, or without sauce for Breakfast. Sole, Boiled.— The flesh of a Boiled sole is tender and delicate, and KHnewhat resembles turbot in flavour, ft is particularly suited for invalids md convalescents. Choose the fish fresh, and very thick—a sole for Boiling should weigh at least two ■Bounds. Seale and clean it, remove he tins and gills, and the brown skin, : f liked. Put it in boiling water with u tablespoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar; let the liquor ■roil up, then draw the pan to the ■aide, and let its contents simmer very .gently till the fish is done enough. In jaking up the sole, set the fish-drainer .across the kettle for a minute, then I-ay the fish on a dish, covered with a varm napkin. The white side must oe uppermost. Garnish with parsley :.nd cut lemon, and send Melted But- ter, or Shrimp, Anchovy, Caper, .^obister, or Oyster Sauce to table in , tureen. Time to boil the fish, ac- cording to size. Sole, Boiled, with Mush- rooms.—Boil a good sized sole, from ■ wo pounds upwards, in Court Bouil- •on ac Blanc; when done, drain, lay •n a hot dish, and pour over half pint of white mushroom sauce, lamish with a dozen or so of button mushrooms (tee M ush rooms for tarnish), and serve hot. Brill is equally good prepared in tho ■ame way ; so is plaice. Sole, Broiled.—Take a medium ized fish, prepare it in the usual ■ vay ; it is better if the white skin is eft on. After drying, cut a slit or wo, slantwise, on each side, that is, on >/hat would be each fillet, supposing they were removed. Brush with oil, season a little, and broil with frequent turning, from eight to twelve minutes. Serve any nice sauce, hot or cold, with it. Sole en Chaudfroid. — Re- quired : a gill and a half of pink, and a gill of green chaudfroid sauce, a medium-sized sole, some salad, &c., as below. Fillet the fish, bat the fillets out, sprinkle with a little chopped lax, salt and pepper, and roll up each; tie with a bit of cotton in a few places, and cook in a buttered pan, with half a glass of white w’ine, for ton minutes or until quite tender. Then set aside, and when cold untie them, and put them on a dish, lengthwise. Mask them lightly with the pink sauce, smoothing it with a wet knife; then use the green sauce as garnish—tho pink showing between—from a bag with a small pipe. If to he separately served, dish them with the ends meeting in the centre, and put between them little heaps of chopped lax or cut lemon or cucumber; or dressed salad, with shrimps or prawns, and here and there an olive. Or fillets pre- pared thus can be used as garnish to a mayonnaise of any large whole fish, but for this purpose they must be quite small. Sole, Fillets of, Fried.—Theso may be treated like a whole fish, by egging and crumbing; or just brushed over with flour and milk, or floured and dipped into frying hatter. The first and third methods are preferable. Tho fat must be hot, and the fish put in a piece or twro at a time in tho case of a good number; otherwise the tempera- ture of the fat is lowered. They should be delicately brown, and take but a short time to cook. Drain, and servo as directed for Sole, Fried. They can be dished lightly in a pile, or en couronnv. Some people sprinklo salt over when done, but it tends to destroy tho crispness. If a few fillets only, and only just enough fat to cover them, a tryingUNIVERSAL cookery book. 190 basket is useful, if they are egged and crumbed; but if coated with batter there must be a good supply of fat, and the fillets thrown into it, and taken up with a slice. In straining the fat after, ho careful that no bits of batter are left in. Soles, Filleted and Rolled. —First cover the fillets with a force- meat, Mushroom, Shrimp, or Lobster ; roll and tie them. Cook them in a buttered tin with lemon juice, and a buttered paper laid over. Dish them, and serve a sauce with them accord- ing to the nature of the stuffing; if shrimp or lobster is used, the fillets should be sprinkled with lobster coral; if mushroom, use truflle and parsley chopped. Sole, Fried.—Clean the solo, if not already done, by making a slit near the head; take out the gills and tho inside; skin it by making a cut across at the tail; run the thumb up the sides to loosen it, then hold tho tail down firmly on a board; take hold of the skin with a cloth, or it will slip, and draw it backwards; first see that it is free from the flesh, or it will leave the bone bare. Then take off tho skin on the other side in the same way. Trim off the fins and tail with scissors, wash and dry the fish thoroughly, and leave it for some time in the kitchen, that it may be warm as well as dry; then flour it well a time or two, by dredging, and shaking off all looso flour. Break an egg on a plate, boat it lightly together, lay the fish in, and brush it over both sides, remembering to use a skewer to lift it by ; then lay the fish on a sheet of paper, with plenty of bread-crumbs, made by rubbing the crumb of bread a few days old through a fine wire sieve. Take up tho opposite corners of the paper, shake the crumbs all over the fish, and smooth any uneven places with a broad knife; a palette knife is useful for all such purposes. Mean- while, the fat should have been heating (see Frying) ; and when quite ready, plunge in the fish; a medium-sized one will be done in seven minutes: a larger will require ten to fifteen minutes. It has already been said that the fat should brown and crisp the fish at once, hut in the case of a largo fish, some little management is needed, or it will he too brown before it is cooked through. In a minute or two the pan may be moved, so that the heat is somewhat reduced ; but a very thick sole is better not cooked whole. When done, drain on a sheet of paper or cloth before the fire, then serve with cut lemon, and fried parsley if liked as garnish; and send sauce separately to table; plain melted butter is often preferred. The head may bo left on or not, according to taste; at one time it was always left; now it is often taken off; but it must be done neatly and carefully, to avoid waste. Some cooks mix a little flour with tho crumbs, and a- sprinkling of white pepper may be added. The sole may be skinned black side only; or both may ho left on ; but it will take longer, and should he put in the fat black side down. If there is no drainer to the kettle, take up the fish with two fish slices, but it is very liable to break; should this happen, sprinkle a pinch of raspings over the crack. If in doubt about a sole, or other fish being done enough, slightly break it in the thick part; the test is the same as for boiled fish. Break the side that will he next the dish. Sole a la Normaiide.—Choose a thick solo, clean it, and draw off the dark skin. Butter thickly a dish that will stand tho fire, and strew over it some finely minced onions. Season the sole with salt and pepper, and lay it on tho onion ; sprinkle a little more onion and thyme and chopped parsley on tho surface, and moisten the fish well with French white wine. Put it in a gentle oven, and hake it until done enough. Take a dozen mussels, cleanse and scrape them, boil them in tho usual way, beard and drain them, and ky them on the sole. Make a quarter of a pint of rich White Sauce,FISII. 191 mix with this the gravy from tho solo and a little of that in which the mussels were cooked. Reduce tho sauce till it coats the spoon; pour a little of it upon the sole over the mussels, and put the dish again in the oven for a few' minutes to make it quite hot, hut he careful not to colour tho sauce at all. Serve very hot, and scad the sauce which remains to table in a tureen. For a superlative dish, oysters and mushrooms may be laid upon the sole, as well as mussels, and the liquor from the oysters may be added to the sauce. Also filed smelts, crayfish, and fried croutons of bread may be used to garnish the dish. When preparing the fish for baking, it should he remembered that cider and perry replace French wine so well that it is almost needless to employ the latter. Some cooks use cham- pagne, or other expensive white wine. The Xormans use the best sparkling cider. Another uay.—Cook the sole in white wine and fish stock enough to cover it: put it on a hot dish, and add to the liquor, which must be thickened with white roux, a few button mush- rooms, oysters* or mussels,* and a little onion if liked; when done, pour all over the fish and send to table hot. The object is to keep the sauce white. Time was when this excellent dish was more extravagantly cooked. It is considered one of the best, if not the best way of serving sole. Garnish with prawns or crayfish and fried croutons. Sole, to Fillet. —After washing and skinning a sole, lay it on a board, and cut down the middle with a sharp ■ knife, straight over the back bone. Make an incision down each side, just where the fins commence—the head -should be first removed. Then raise the fillets on the left band side, keeping the knife fiat and close to the bone; turn the fish round, cut off the other * Boil these first In the ordinary v.ay ICse small oysters, bearded ; and add a little •of their strained liquor. fillet (always, that is, have the side that is being removed to your left hand); turn the fish over, and take tho fillets from the other side. This gives four; if small, leave them; if large, cut again in a slanting direction ; sometimes they are rolled up, or twisted over once or twice; either is done after egging and crumbing, when that is done. They should he smoothed with a knife, and any ragged pieces removed. Boil the head, hone, and trimmings for stock. When the fillets are rolled or twisted the side that was next the hone must he outside, or, in cooking they will come undone. Soles an Flat.—Required: a paii- of small soles, a teaspoonful of shrimp essence, a large tablespoonful of picked shrimps, two ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of fish stock, salt, cayenne, and lemon juice, a few bread-crumbs. Take off the brown skin, and trim the fish. Melt the butter, put half in the dish in which the fish are to he served; add the seasoning, lay in a fish, white skin down, sprinkle over it the shrimps, a few drops more lemon j nice (a little should be put with the butter), and a little salt; then Lay the other fish on, white skin up; brush the top with milk, sprinkle the crumbs over with seasoning, pour the rest of the butter over, and bake in a good oven. The fish stock should he poured round the fish, and when nicely browned serve at once. Send cut lemon and cayenne to table. Another way.—Put a little fish stock in the baking dish or plate ; lay in one solo, white skin down; on the side from which the black skin was taken sprinkle some bread - crumbs, first brushing the fish with milk, warm butter, or oil; sprinkle over some fresh parsley and mixed herbs; or some chopped mushrooms, with seasoning to taste; pour a iittlo butter over, and hake. These are good breakfast dishes. I f preferred, leave the fish unskiuned, then it must bo cooked white sido up ; this rulo applies, whutever tho mode.192 universal Cookery Booli. Soles with Crayfish.— Re- quired : a dozen small fillets of sole, a dozen crayfish tails, some crayfish butter, and. Anchovy Cream. After cooking the soles, cut them out with an oval cutter, press them and leave them until quite cold. Mix the trimmings, after pounding and sieving, with a little White Sauce, bechamel if handy. Mask the fillets with the mixture, and lay on each the half of the meat of a crayfish tail, split lengthwise. Put the crayfish butter in a forcing bag with a small, fancy pipe, and ornament the edges of the fillets, leaving the same space between, then fill up with green mayonnaise; on each crayfish put a similar ornamenta- tion down the centre. Have an oval border of aspic with a garnish inside {see Gaunishes) ; lay the fillets on this, and fill up the centre with cucumber, beetroot, and watercress, mixed with mayonnaise. Ornament the top with the rest of the cray- fish tails, and some crayfish butter as above. Serve for dinner as dressed fish, or for any cold collation. In all dishes of this sort, when fish is filleted and left to cool, it should be pressed. This is necessary in addition to the batting out before coolring it. A plate or dish, or a baking tin should be used for the purpose, some weights being set on. If required to cool in a hurry, set it on ice. Soles in Cream (a delicate and delicious dish). — Take a pair of moderate-sized soles, skin the black side, and clean them with scrupulous care. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for two minutes. Take them up, drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan. Pour over them as much sweet cream as will barely caver them, add a little salt and cayenne, a pinch of pounded mace, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up with a slice, and place them upon a hot dish. Thicken the cream with a little arrowroot, stir a tablcspoonful of strained lemon juice into it, and pour it over the fish. It may seem unnecessary that the soles should be boiled in water before they arc put into the cream, but it will be found that if this is not done the sauce will have a slightly unpleasant fishy flavour. Time to simmer the fish, eight to ten minutes. Sprats.—Those are very common fish on many parts of the British coast, and elsewhere in the northern parts of the Atlantic. The sprat is much smaller than the herring, being only about six inches long when full-grown. It strongly resembles the herring, though it is easily distinguished by the serrated belly, and by' the position of the fins, the ventral fins beginning immediately beneath the first ray of the dorsal fin, and not beneath the middle of it, as in the herring and pilchard. The Firth of Forth pro- duces sprats—called “ gar vies ” in Scotland—so abundantly that they arc- sold in Edinburgh and Glasgow by measure, and cheaper than any other kind of fish. Sprats are wholesome, and of a good flavour. They may be smoked, dried, potted, or fried, but they are best when broiled, as they are of a very oily nature. They are in season during the winter. They should be chosen as fresh as possible. This may be known by the brightness of their eyes and their silvery look. Though many persons eat them with salt alone, it will be found that their flavour is improved by the addition of a squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch of cayenne. Sprats, Dried.—Dried sprats are sometimes eaten plain, but they are very dry and salt. If liked, they may be slightly broiled, but perhaps the best way to serve them is to put them in a basin, pour boiling water upon them; then in a few minutes skin them, and serve them very hot. Sprats, Fried.—Clean the sprats dry them well, draw them at the gills, dredge them with flour, and run a small skewer through the heads off-istl. 103 about a dozen of them. Fry them on the skewer in plenty of hot fat, and when they aro nicely browned lift them on a hot dish covered with blotting-paper, and put them before the fire till the fat has drained from them. Fold a warm napkin; luy this on a hot dish, draw tho skewer from the sprats, put them on the dish, and garnish with parsley and lemon. Sprats may also bo fried tho same as smelts ; a frying-basket facilitates tho operation if a good supply have to be cooked. Sprats, Grilled.—Clean the sprats, dry them well, and draw them at the gills. Dip them lightly in flour, fasten them in rows on small skewers run through tho heads, and grill them on a closely-barred gridiron over a slow fire. When they are done upon one side, turn them on the other. Serve them on a very hot dish. They are generally served dry, but if liked a little lemon juice may be squeezed over them at the last moment. Time to broil the sprats, four or five minutes. Probable cost, Id. or 2d. per pound. Sturgeon.—Tho sturgeon is a large fish somewhat resembling tho shark in form. Its body is more or less covered with rows of bony spikes. In tho north of Kurope and in some of the states of North America it is o caught in abundance, but it is seldom met with in English rivers. It is said that those who have the good fortune to capture it are bound to send their prize to the reigning sovereign, as the sturgeon is regarded as a royal fish. Tho flesh of the sturgeon is agreeable and wholesome, and looks something liko veal. It was so highly esteemed in ancient days that it was crowned before being brought to table, and a band of music marched before it. Its roe is converted into caviare, a favourite Russian delicacy, and from its air- bladder fine isinglass is prepared. It is to be met with in tho London market, and is usually dressed regard- less of expense. The sterlet is tho smallest but most highly prized species of sturgeon. Its flesh is delicious, and its caviaro is reserved for tho Russian Court. The flesh of the sturgeon should bo partly white, with a few blue veins; the skin tender, and the grain even ; when the veins and gristles are brown and yellow, and tho skin dry and harsh, tho ilesh is not good ; it should cut firm, not crumble. Price very uncertain; may reach several shillings per pound. Sturgeon flesh is more like meat than any other fish is, often resembling veal. Sturgeon & la Russe.— Required: a nice piece of fresh sturgeon weighing about two pounds. Cleanse thoroughly, scale it, remove the spikes, and lay it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. An hour before it is wanted rub it well with vinegar, and let it lie with a little vinegar poured round it. Put it into a fish-kettlo with as much boiling water as will cevor it, and add two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an ounce of bay-salt. Let it boil gently till dono enough, tako it up, flour it well, put it beforo u brisk firo, and baste it with butter till it is well browned. Put it on a dish, and pour over it, or serve soparafely in a tureen, a sauce prepared as follows Bono and skin two anchovies, and put them into a saucepan with a glass of whito wino, a button onion, an inch of lemonUNIVERSAL COOKERV BOOK. 194 rind, and a cupful of stock, Boil all gently together for a minute or two. Strain the sauce, thicken it with roux, then, aftor boiling up and skimming, put in a glass of Madeira. Sturgeon, Cutlets of.—Re- quired : some shoes of sturgeon, three- fourths of an inch thick ; a seasoning, as much as may he required in the following proportions: an ounce each of fat bacon, minced onion, and parsley, all cut into the smallest pieces, then chopped all together, and seasoned rather highly. Skin the fish, trim the cutlets neatly to the same size and shape ; oil them, and cover the upper side with the mixture. Cover them with buttered paper, and bake in a tin ; when done, servo with a sauce made by boiling the trimmings down in water for stock; to a gill, add white wine, same quantity, and a little roux to make it as thick as good cream after it has boiled up. The fish should be got ready some timo beforehand, to give the stock the required time to become strong. Sturgeon, Roasted.—This can be cooked plainly, but is better if larded. The skin should be taken off, and a nice, thick piece, of several pounds, chosen ; after larding, tie up in shape, and roast it, basting often with the following, prepared before- hand :—Supposing four pounds of fish, put in a saucepan a gill of good fish stock, the same of good brown stock, half a gill of sherry, a bunch of herbs, and some bits of carrot and onion; leave for a time to blend, then bring to the boil, strain, and use. When the fish is done, put it near the fire to brown, and add a morsel of roux and glaze to the gravy; boil it up, and servo. Sturgeon, Stewed.—Prepare the fish as above. Have in a stew-pan a “ bod ” of vegetables ; carrot, onion, and a morsel of celery ; some odds and onds of ham trimmings or scalded bacon rinds; cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, and a little wine and fish stock to moisten ; lay the fish on, cover with a buttered paper, and when the moisture is almost dried up, add, to three or four pounds, half a pint of fish stock or veal stock, and a glass of wine. Draw to the side of the stove, and simmer only, basting often, over the paper, with the stock. It will take from one to two hours according to thickness. When done, take the fish up, and brown it before the fire, then strain the gravy, and remove the fat from the surface, add .an ounce of glaze, a tcaspoonful of arrowroot, and a few drops of French vinegar; give it a boil up, and pour round the fish. This is a very de- licious dish, and when timo and expense are not grudged, other fish may be cooked similarly with a cer- tainty of success. Tench.—This resembles the carp in its fondness for muddy situations; the flesh is consequently rather un- pleasant in taste, and to free it from this, the fish is sometimes turned for a few days into clear water; it weighs not more than four to five pounds as a rule, and when well cleansed, and properly prepared, is very good eating. Cost, very uncertain. Tench, Baked.— Clean, scale, and remove the gills of the fish—they are always muddy. Rub the fish all over with lemon j uiee, and leave it for an hour; cover with an oiled paper, and bako in a greased tin. Serve with a piquant gravy, made in the tin, or with piquant sauce. (See Sauces.) Tench, Boiled.—In cleaning the fish, raise the backbone, and rub salt under it; wash it thoroughly in salted water. Boil in the usual way, and serve with parsley sauce, or a nice White Sauce; or send Maitke d’IIotel Butter to table in addition to a hot sauce. Tench, Broiled.—The following is one of the best ways of cooking tonch. After cleaning and drawing the fish, lay it in boiling water forFISH. 195 a minute or two, then scalo it from head to tail. Lay it on a dish, and sprinkle it with a small onion chopped, some powdered herbs, and seasoning; a grate of lemon peel if possible. Pour over some salad oil, just to moisten thoroughly, and leave for an hour. Then drain, and soak some writing paper in the oil, wrap the fish in it, tucking the ends in securely, and broil or grill it. When done, take off the paper, and send Piquant Sauce or Tartarb Sauce to table with the fish; or it may be poured over. Another tcay.—Leave the fish in the oil, but instead of wrapping it in paper, simply drain it, and while cooking, brush it almost constantly with the remainder of the oil. See also Marinade roil Broiled Fish. Thomback. - This is a very peculiar looking fish, not well-known; the cost is variable, but it is generally inexpensive. It is usually fried. First clean and skin the fish, then cut it into slices of an inch or less in thickness; dry and Horn- them, and leave for an hour or two, then re- flour, or coat with butter, and fry until crisp; or the Well-known method of egging and crumbing may be re- sorted to. The so-called “ wing ” of the fish is laid in salt and water for a day or two to free it from a strong, peculiar flavour. The thomback is of the my tribe, and is found on the coasts of Ireland and England. In washing fish of this sort, use salt plentifully. Trout.—Itiver trout is a very delicious fish, much prized by epi- cures ; the most delicate in flavour weigh from twelve to sixteen ounces. The female is the nicer; it is known by its body being deeper, and its head smaller than the male. Then there is the sea trout, which appears to form the connecting link between the salmon and the common or river trout. This reaches a larger size, sometimes more than a foot long, though that is about the average ; it is a very excellent fish. Trout may bo cooked in many ways; perhaps Fio. 53.—Trout. boiling is least to be recommended, so far as flavour goes. The under- mentioned recipes refer to common trout. Trout a l'Aurore.—After boil- ing a couple of moderate sized fish, take them up carefully, and drain thoroughly; then dish them, and pour over them the following sauce:— Half a pint of good melted butter, mixed with an ounce of grated cheese, the yolks of three raw eggs, a few drops of cayenne or chilli vinegar, and a little anchovy essence; thick- ened in the usual way. Have ready three hard-boiled eggs, mince them, and mix with them an ounce of grated clieeso (Parmesan is best) ; sprinkle over the sauce, and set tho dish in the oven to heat through, thon brown the surface with a sala- mander. Before serving, pour round the fish, a sauco of a contrasting colour to that poured over—shrimp, tomato, or lobster inay be usod. This dish is excellent. Trout, Baked.—Chooso small fish ; if fresh, tho skin has a beautiful appearance ; handle it carefully, wash, scale, and dry it, and season insido and out with a little salt, popper, and cayenne. Lay it in a baking tin,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 196 add an ounce of butter, and a little white wine, or lemon juice; cook gently, and baste well. Dish, and pour over some Brown Caper, Brown Mushroom, or either of the brown piquant sauces. One made of brown fish stock, thickened with roux, and flavoured with claret, anchovy essence, and chopped parsley, is also suitable for trout. Another way.—Lay the fish on slices of fat bacon in the tin, and baste with the bacon liquor; flour it a short time before dishing, and let the surface brown. Pour Tomato, or other suitable sauce round it, not over. Time about twenty to thirty minutes. Baked trout is delicious cold ; servo a good, cold sauce with it. Trout, Boiled. — Prepare tlio fish, and boil it in Court Bouillon. Drain carefully, and dish on a napkin; garnish with parsley and cut lemons. Send Dutch or other rich sauco of the usual kinds for boiled fish, to tablo with it. Trout, Fried.—The fish should be filleted in the usual way, and the flesh divided into uniform sized pieces. If for serving hot, egg and crumb them; if to be eaten cold, flour them lightly, then egg them, then sprinkle them with pounded biscuits, crushed to powder. Fry in hot fat. Drain well, and if to serve hot, dish en couronnc with filed parsley in the centre, and a slice of lemon, with a shrimp or prawn in between each fillet. Send sauce to table in a tureen. For a cold dish, dish the fillets when cold, on a lace paper, and serve with Sauce Yerte, or Tartare Sauce (see Cold Sauces). Garnish the fillets with parsley only, or with aspic or mayonnaise; or the fillets may be coated with liquid aspic, as directed for soles. They should then be gar- nished in the centre of the dish with a little dressed salad. Trout, Pickled.—Make a pickle, of equal measures of vinegar and fish stock; take the skin and bones from some trout, previously boiled or baked, and pack it in a jar in neat pieces. Add an onion, and a bunch of herbs, with the usual spices to the fish pickle; boil for a quarter of an hour, and pour over tho fish. This keeps well in a cool place. Trout, Potted.—Take four fish, of a pound or less each; clean them, cut them open, take out the back- bones, cut oil the heads, fins, &c., and season them inside with a mixture of salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg; using about a dessertspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of pepper, with very little cayenne and nutmeg: then sprinkle over each some dried herbs in powder. Put them two and two together, sandwich fashion ; lay them in a flat dish or tin to just hold them, and pour over them a glass of white wine, an ounce of butter, and tho juice of a lemon ; then bake the fish ; drain them, and lay them in a shallow jiie dish, pressing them well together, each pair being laid in a contrary direc- tion. Fill up any vacant places with lumps of fish aspic, then cover them a fourth of an inch thick with clarified butter, and set in a cold place. This must be done when the fish are cold. This method answers for many kinds of fish. It is an excellent picnic dish. If liked, the fish may be cut up, and the aspic put in when cold, then a dish of any size or shape can be used. Trout, Stewed.—Cleanse and cut up the fish if large; if small, leave them whole. Pour over just enough Brown Sauce to cover, first adding to it some claret or sherry, half a gill or so, and somo French vinegar; about a tablespoonful to each pint; when the fish is tender, dish it in a pile, season the sauce to taste, and pom- it over the fish. For a plainer way, use Gravy for Stewed Fish ; or for a rich stew, sec Matelote, and other rich brown fish sauces. Trout stewed in Madeira Sauce is very good. Time, from half an hour to three-quarters.197 FISII. In all the foregoing recipes it is assumed that the usual tests will be employed for ascertaining if the fish is done. A common direction in recipes for trout is “ cook until the eyes start; ” hut this test is not referred to in any recipe herein. Tunny Fish.—This is a fish which somewhat resembles the mac- kerel ; it is caught in the Medi- terranean, and sent out preserved in oil; the flesh is delicate and much esteemed: it is something like veal. It may he bought in tins, from Is. 6d. to 2s. each, and can be used in salads, or served plainly as a break- fast dish, with sauce, or oil, vinegar, and pepper. It also makes good curry. The oil from the tin should be used in making the curried sauce, and the fish heated in it; this is considered a very wholesome way of serving it; when cold, tunny fish is somewhat in- digestible. Another favourite dish consists of tunny fish and thinly sliced cucumber, dressed plainly. {See Salads.) Fio. 64.—Tunny. Tunny fish is, however, a dish which is known to and enjoyed by a comparative few. Turbans of Fish. —There are almost endless ways of making fish turbans, and very pretty dishes most of them are. The idea is to line tho mould with one sort of fish farce, and to fill up with another, preferably of a contrasting colour. A mould shown below is correct, but it is not absolutely nocessary. Any round mould will do if of sufficient depth, with an in- dented top, and fluted sides, but it is not a border mould.* Fio. 55.—Tukban, ok Turk's Caf Mould. A very effective dish may be mado as follows : butter the mould well, and sprinkle it with shrimps, truffles, and parsley, all chopped. Take any whito farce, that given for White Fish Quenelles, Moulded, for instance, add to half a pound of it a little good sauce, bechamel or any other, a spoon- ful or two of thick cream, half a gill of picked shrimps, and a bit of crayfish butter to colour and flavour. Lino the mould with this, press it evenly and closely to the sides, then fill up with a ragout of white fish. To mako it, cut up raw fish, and add good, thick whito sauce to moisten, with a raw egg or two to bind, and season nicely ; or use parboiled rice or maca- roni, and sauce, &c., as above; then cover with another layer of fish farce as used at first. Poach just as directed for quenelles, but set the mould on a fold or two of paper in the stowpan. Allow from forty minutes to an hour in proportion to depth. Garnish tho top and base with shrimps or crayfish tails, heated in whito wine, and pour crayfish sauco round the turban. Another wuy.—Use salmon farce, ns given for quenelles, to lino tho mould, and fill up with fillets of whito fish. * Border moulds arc sometimes used for turlians, tliosc called “ sunk to])" being most suitable. (6'ce Garnishes.)UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 198 with a little sauco on. Cover with more farce, and cook as above. This wants careful turning out, and a white sauco goes best with it. White quen- elles should be used for garnishing, or little heaps of cooked macaroni. Note. —In lining such a mould as the foregoing, it makes the task much easier to use a spoon, dipping it often in boiling water. This prevents it sticking to the farce, as it does when used dry. Variations of the turbans may bo made by using any nice fish forcemeat [see Forcemeats), with a good ragout of another sort for the centre, always covering the ragout with more forcemeat on the top. Turbot.— This is an excellent fish, the most highly esteemed of all the flat fish. Its flesh is very white, rich, and gelatinous. The parts most relished by epicures are tho Fio. 06.—Turbot. thick portion of the fins, and tho skin. In selecting turbot, a moderate sized fish is to he preferred to a large one. The flesh should bo firm, and tho whito side creamy', not bluo. In preparing a turbot for cooking, it must be well cleansed, by rubbing tho outside with a little salt, and washing in several lots of water, dried Carefully insido and out, then rubbed with a cut lemon on the white side. Tho fins are not to bo removed. Any tinsightly' spots on tho white sido will generally yield to a mixture of salt and lemon juice, with which they should bo rubbed. The price varies; it is often as high as Is. Gd. per pound, but may bo had occasionally under Is. ; but it is never a cheap fish. Turbot will keep for a day or two in cold weather. Turbot a, la Froventjale.— For this, any' other firm white fish may be used, or mixed with turbot. Tako all skin and bone from some cooked fish, and flake it. Grease a dish, and put enough chives, parsley, and sbalots, all chopped, to cover the bottom. Season with salt, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg, a little pepper and cay'enne; then pour over enough salad oil to moisten these ingredients. Then spread the fish on the top in a layer of an inch or more; it may bo moistened with a little sauco or milk. Then put more seasoning on the top, with more oil, or bits of butter. Bake for a quarter of an hour or so, uncovered tho latter part of tho time, but closely covered at the first. Serve very hot. This method is for a small amount of fish. If there is more than enough for a single layer, put some of the seasoning in the centre, between the layers of fish, and bake longer. This looks nicer if some raspings are dredged over before serving, or tiny croutons (see Garnishes) may be put in a pattern on the topi. To serve with this, Potato Cakes or many dishes of Macaroni are suit- able ; the same may be said of liiCE. (See Index.) Turbot, Baked.—This is a very good way of cooking a turbot. If a small one, follow the directions given for Baked Sole, or Sole au Gratis ; tho latter is particularly recommended. For a large fish, after washing and drying, brush it over, white skin up, with butter, and cook it slowly' in a baking tin well buttered. Cover with buttered paper, and baste often ; mix a little lemon juico and white wine, and add to the liquor in the tin. When done, drain thoroughly, and servo with any' sauce : Melted Butter, Anchovy, Shrimp, Lobster, Dutch,FISH. 199 &c.; or, strain the liquor from tho tin, boil it up in half a pint or more of good White Sauce, and skim well, then flavour as desired. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Or pour tho sauce over tho fish, and strew over the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and somo chopped parsley. Then use the white of an egg as a garnish ; it should be cut in rings, laid on slices of lemon, and tilled in with tufts of parsley. Sometimes scraped horse- radish is used with other garnishing media. This, and all other baked fish, will look the same all through when done. pieces of parsley upon it, so as to cover the crack. The suuces given under Turbot, Halted, may all bo served with boiled turbot. Lohsteh Sauce is very good; when used, somo Fic. 57.-^Tukbot Kettle. Turbot, Boiled.—Empty the fish, wash it inside with scrupulous nicety, then remove the scales and gills, and trim the fins, but do not cut them off, as the gelatinous parts about them are esteemed a great delicacy, llub a little salt all over the outside of the fish—this will make the slime come oft' more easily, and do away with the necessity for soaking the fish. Wash it until it is as clean as possible. Dry it, and rub it with a cut lemon or a little vinegar. Draw a sharp knife just through the skin in the thickest part of the middle of tho back on the dark side of the fish. This is to keep the skin from cracking on the white side. Put as much cold water as will bo required to cover the fish intoa turbot- j kettle, and dissolve in this a little salt, j in the proportion of six ounces of silt to a gallon of water. Bring the water to the boil and remove the scum as it rises. Lay the turbot on the fish-drainer the white side up, lower it into the boiling water, draw it back at once, and simmer the fish very gently until done; if loft soaking it will be woolly, and lose flavour quickly. Then take it up, drain the wrater from it, and slip it, the white side up, upon a hot dish covered with a napkin. Garnish with parsley, cut lemon, and scraped horse-radish, and if it should happen that the fish is at aft cracked, lay two or three little coral may be rubbed through a sieve and sprinkled over the fish. Somo cooks have an idea that the best parts of tho fish lio in the back, therefore they dish the turbot with the dark side uppermost. However this may be, the turbot looks best with the white side on the top. It is impossible to give the exact time for boiling, as turbot varies much in thickness as well as in size. The usual tests must be applied. The fish is also very good if boiled in Couut Bouillon au Blanc. The illustration above shows the shape of a proper turbot kettle ; they aro generally of steel or copper, and measure from twenty to twenty-six inches in length. An ordinary kettlo with drainer, if wide enough, will answer very well. Turbot, Boiled, to Carve.— The accompanying illustration will give a correct idea of tho way of cf Fiu. &8.—Caiivino Tuiuiot.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 200 serving turbot, or any similar fish. First, pass the fish knife straight down from a to b. Then take even slices from c to d, and c to c, leaving the bone clear, and giving some of tho best part to each person, viz., from tho head. Turbot, Broiled.—Clean a small turbot, and dry it well. Lay it on a dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on it, and pour over it four tablo- spoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar or lemon juice. When it is to bo dressed place it in a double broiler, and broil it before a slow clear fire. Turn it overy five or six minutes, and on each occasion brush it ovor with the marinade in the dish. Turbot, Cold, to Reheat.— This can bo done in a groat many ways ; indeed, it may be said that any recipe for re-heating cold fish of any other white kind is applicable to turbot. That is so far as good recipes go ; wo do not mean that a very plain method should be followed; for turbot being somewhat expensive to start with, is worthy good materials in the concoction of a rechauffe, and should always bo nicclyand suitably garnished. There are few nicer dishes than turbot heated in any good sauce, bechamel, melted butter, crayfish, shrimp, an- chovy, &c., from which it should take its name. All that is needed is to divide tho fish into flakes, and lay it in the sauce until heated through. Then turn it on a hot dish, in the centre of a border of rice, potatoes, or macaroni {see Inoex), and garnish suitably. Tho kind of sauce used will indicate the necessary materials; cut lemons are never out of place, whatever may be the other ingredients; and small quenelles always look nice on a border, the tiny quonello moulds being used for them. Or if the turbot be simply heated in white sauce, with some grated cheese to flavour, a bordor of macaroni, lightly arranged round it, is suitably garnished with small croquettes of macaroni and cheese, or with grated cheese only, shaken over tho macaroni border, and lemon and parsley round. Small mushrooms aro also useful as adjuncts to fish. For curry, vol-au-vents, &c., turbot is an excellent fish. Turbot, Cold, to Serve.—A small fish, cooked whole by boiling, preferably in Coukt Bouillon au Blanc, makes a delicious dish if accompanied by a nice cold sauce (see Sauces), and some salad {see Salads). If the sauce is served with it, tho fish must be garnished with aspic, &c., in the usual way; but if tho sauce is spread over it, very little else is required. To smooth the sauce, take a palette lcnifo, and dip it in cold water. Fillets of anchovy, olives, and truffles may bo used together, with aspic for a border, if a really elaborate dish is required. Beetroot, cucumber, &c., aro also suitable. {See Gaii- NISHES.) Turbot en Coquilles.—Re- quired : cold turbot, one tablespoonful of button mushrooms, one truffle, seasoning, two eggs, a little sauco, sherry, and butter. Free tho fish from skin and bone, cut it into tiny dice; cook tho mush- rooms in a little butter, cut them small, also tho truffle ; mix together, add salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of wine and a grate of nutmeg, and somo creamy bechamel, about five or six tablespoonfuls ; there should bo tho same measure of turbot. Butter somo small china or plated shells ; fill them with tho mixture, and set them on tho drainer of a fish kettle, or in a largo steamer over boiling water, until just hot through; or they may be set on a large meat stand, over a tin of boiling water in tho oven, or on a range. Then boil tho eggs hard; rub both the yolk and white through a sieve; sprinkle the tops of the shells with tho two, to form a design, using also a morsel of truffle or lobster coral; serve hot on a dish, covered with a serviette, either as dressed Jish or an entree. Turbot en Coquilles, d, la, Roxane.—Prepare tho mixture as201 FISH. above, except that the truffle is omitted; a tablespoonful of cooked lobster, pounded and sieved, should tako its place. Line the shells with fried crumbs, and coat them with the same; after filling, adding somo oiled butter. Brown in a quick oven, and garnish the tops with lobster coral or chopped lax. Turbot en Darioles, k la Julienne.—Take some cooked turbot, free from bone and skin; put half a pound in a mortar, with seasoning to taste, and two tablespoonfuls of bechamel, or good white sauce; pound them, then pass through a sieve. Make a sauce by mixing a gill each of thick cream and mayonnaise, with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and rather more than the same measure of chopped lax ; colour the mixture pink. Have ready some small dariole moulds of white china; fill them with alternate layers of fish and sauce, letting the latter form both the' bottom and top layers. Prepare some julienne shreds, from cooked carrot and beetroot, and some raw shredded cucumber ; sprinkle these lightly all over the surface just before serving (the beetroot and cucumber should be lightly dressed with salad oil), then all round the edges of the darioles, put chopped aspic, using a small bag and pipe. Turbot en Darioles, fi, la Jacques.—Prepare the fish as above, but add an ounce of butter when pounding. Make the sauce with green mayonnaise, and omit the lax. Fill the moulds, and on the top, in place of the strips, put tiny dice of raw cucumber, dressed with oil; add a little chopped parsley, and garnish the edges with pink aspic. These, and the above, should be served very cold. Turbot en Mayonnaise.— Take a medium sized fish, and removo the flesh in four fillets; place them together again on a buttered tin, so that the fish may be served in its original shape; sprinkle the juico of a lemon over, and lay a sheet of whito paper, well buttered, on the top : set O* tho tin in a gentle oven, and cook the fish thoroughly; tho time must bo calculated by its thickness. Then sot it aside until quite cold. Tako it up carefully, and put it on a dish ; mask it with mayonnaise, half an inch in thickness, and let the layer be smooth. Then put in a bag some Anchovy Cream, or Lobster Cream (see Cold Sauces) ; and, with a plain pipe, ornament tho edge of the fish, leaving a little space between; fill up the spaces with green mayonnaise, also from a bag; sprinkle tho first decoration with a pinch of chopped gherkin or capers, and the second with lobster coral or chopped lax. Then, all over the top of the fish, form any pattern with tho same decorative media, viz., gherkin or capers, lobster or lax, with somo truffle, chopped finely, and chopped parsley or chervil. Next, form a border on the dish, of chopped aspic, with some prawns, shrimps, lobster claws, or slices of lobster; or cut the aspic into cubes, or other shapes, and alternate them with the foregoing ingredients, together with sliced lemon, cucumber, or little bunches of dressed green salad; and stoned olives. This is a very ornamental dish, suitable for a cold collation of any kind. It may be simplified consider- ably, and fillets of fish can bo coated with mayonnaise, and dressed moro or less elaborately according to re- quirements. (See Salads. ) Turbot Moley. (See Meat Moley.)—Follow the directions, using for tho foundation either fish stock, or a mixture of that and milk. White fish of all sorts may bo used up, but a mixture of turbot and lobster—if only a ladleful of lobster sauce to a pound of fish—will be found very delicious. In our opinion, a smaller proportion of onion, and a larger amount of potato, is nicer for a fish moloy ; and wo find, though it is a doparturo from tho original, that a fow drops of anchovy essonco are a decided improvement, both to tho fish und tho potatoes widely accompany it.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 202 Turbot, Ragout of.—Required: one pound of raw turbot, half a glass of light wine, one egg, half a lemon, two ounces of butter, salt, cayenne, half an ounce of flour, &c., as below. Butter a dish (to send to table) and coat it with grated Parmesan cheese. Cut the fish into dice, cook it in the dis- solved butter and juice of the lemon for twenty minutes, or thereabouts ; then add the flour, mixed with the wine; boil up, take from the fire, and beat in the egg, with seasoning to taste, and a couple of spoonfuls of melted butter or white sauce; pour into the dish, and sprinkle more grated cheese over, with a few bread crumbs; an ounce or more of butter, oiled, should be poured over. Set this in a tin of hot water for ten minutos, in a mo- derate oven, then brown the surface delicately, just before serving. Another way.—Instead of grated cheese, use, for lining the dish some cooked pipe macaroni cut into short pieces, half an inch or less ; fill up as above, and cover the top with more macaroni, cut in the same way. Brush over with oiled butter, and after first heating through in the oven, sprinkle fried crumbs over, and serve. Turbot Ragout, Iced, a la WallllCOtte. — First free a ripe tomato from pips, cut it up, and add to it a teaspoonful of French capers, cut up, a teaspoonful of smoked salmon in thin shreds, three tablespoonfuls of cooked turbot, the white part only, in shreds or dice, a little cayenne vinegar and tarragon vinegar, and a little pale Fia. 59.—Shell Moulds. aspic. Stir over ice until just beyond the liquid point, but not on the point of setting ; then take some small shell moulds, either of the shapes shown in Fig. 59, and fill them, taking care to level the tops. Set them in an ice cave to cool, then turn out. Dish them on a bed of salad; garnish with smoked salmon and shreds of tomato, and some pink aspic. This is a dainty dish for al fresco fare, or a ball supper ; any fish, sole or whiting preferably, may be used in the same way, and chopped lax does as well as ordinary smoked salmon. Weaver.—The great weaver is about a foot in length; is armed with sharp spines, which are usually cut Fig. 60.—Weaver. off before the fish comes into market. It is a sort of marine perch, very good eating. The lesser weaver is the more common on our coasts, and having the faculty of striking with its sharp spines, is often called the “ sting fish.” Whelks.—The whelks should bo procured alive, washed in fresh water, and put in salt and water to boil; the small ones, which are eaten like periwinkles, take from forty to fifty minutes; and large ones, with shells as large as an egg, need an hour and a half; they are sometimes fried after boiling, but are indigestible at tho best, and the majority will do well to avoid them altogether, or use thorn for stock for fish soups only. Whitebait.—This favourite fish belongs especially to London; it is found in the Thames as far as Black- wall. The difference of opinion as to its parentage is great; many suppose203 VISH. that it is tho fry of tho sprat, the smelt, and other fish; some contend that it is the fry of the herring; others assert that it is a distinct species of the herring- tribe. It should he obtained fresh and un- broken, and put on ice if not wanted as soon as brought in; it is served fried, phiin, or devilled, with cut lemons and brown bread and butter; it needs no sauce. It may be added that the fry of various species of fish are often treated as whitebait, and if not too large, with a fair amount of success. Whitebait is usually ex- pensive. Whitebait, Mock.—Cut up any raw white fish into strips, as nearly the size of whitebait as possible; fry and serve them in precisely the same way. Whatever the fish used, it must be very firm and fresh, carefully filleted and flattened out, that the strips maybe even. Whitebait, to Fry.—Put the fish in a sieve when required, and pick it over (to free it from any other fish which sometimes get mixed in, as shrimps, &c., together with bits of weed), then put a dozen or two at a time on a cloth, with plenty of flour ; shake it over them, then pick them up lightly, and put enough of them in a frying basket to cover the bottom; give it a gentle shake before putting it in the hot fat, then plunge it in, and fry just until crisp; when you can hear them “shake” in the pan they are done; that is to say, to be correct, when, by shaking the pan, the fish can be heard to make a rustling noise. In the matter of colour, tastes differ; some like this little fish brown ; but it should be pale and crisp. Some cooks say that it should be scarcely browned ; in fact, nearer to grey. As soon as done, dish on a hot dish covered with a serviette, and garnish with fried parsley. Another way.—In tho above method we have made no mention of another one, sometimes employed, and con- sidered by some the only correct one ; that is, to fry the fish, a small quan- tity at a time until crisp enough to turn out, and then to put the basket nearly filled with the fish, a second time into hot fat (another supply), and to hold them in for a few seconds, and again let them crisp and slightly brown. This, of course, incurs extra trouble and expense, and many good cooks contend that tho first mode is equally good. If the fish stick together in the flouring, they must bo carefully separ- ated with the fingers. Whitebait, Devilled, is fish cooked in the above way, then sprin- kled with cayenne and a little salt, and well shaken together before dishing, by turning them into a clean, hot cloth, and taking hold of the opposite comers. Sometimes, at large dinners, whitebait are served in the foregoing ways, and also dressed with pepper (black), making three dishes. To know when the fat is the right heat, sec Frying. Wlliting.—This is not a very tasty fish, but very delicate, and so digestible as to have earned the title of “ sea chicken.” It may be cooked in almost any way, and a sauce of a piquant nature improves it. Cost from 2d. to 6d. on an average, but sometimes much more. When- ever fish is'ordered for an invalid, whiting may . be given (suitably cooked) with impunity. Boiling or steaming is a method which ensures a delicate and easily digested dish, though somewhat insipid, and not recommended for ordinary faro. Whi- ting will not keep well; when stale and flabby (and sometimes burst open) it should not be eaten. Whiting Pout. —Tho whiting pout, otherwise known ns tho bib, tho brassy, and the pout, is an ex- cellent fish, which is not so highly esteemed ns it deserves to bo, possibly because it may bo purchased in tho places whore it is abundant at a trifling cost. It possesses the singular204 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. power of inflating the membranes which cover the eyes and other parts of the head, which, when thus dis- tended, have tho appearance of bladders. It is probably from this that it derives its name of pout. It is a deeper and stouter fish than the whiting, and its flesh is firmer, drier, and less delicate. It seldom exceeds twelve inches in length. It should bo eaten very fresh, and may be cookod in every way like whiting. It is im- proved by being salted for twelve hours, and still further improved by being dried in a current of air. To vary tho flavour of the fish, slightly smoke it over a wood firo, then broil it. The great Soyer pronounced this fish to bo quite equal to tho red mu Hot. Whiting, Baked.—One of tho nicest ways is to prepare tho fish with egg and crumbs as if for frying. A tin should be read}’, containing sorao liquid butter, with which tho fish is to bo basted. A buttered paper is then to bo laid over, and tho fish cooked in a quick oven, so that tho process may resemble frying as much as possible. It must be well drained, and nicely browned. Remove the paper a short time beforo it is done. Tor sauco3 see Whiting, Tuied ; or serve shrimp, anchovy, Dutch, or any of tho usual kinds with it. Plain melted butter, flavoured with tarragon and chervil, or tarragon vinegar only, is liked by some. Whiting, Broiled.—Clean tho fish, and dry in a cloth ; after flouring, brush over with beaten egg, then dip them in fine crumbs, and season with a little salt and popper, with a pinch of herbs in fine powder. Dip them into clarified butter, and mark with tho back of a knife or a skewer, in a few places on each side the fish in a slanting direction. Broil slowly, and serve as if fried. A Dutch oven is best for these, and during the cooking they should be moistened with butter. The livers of whiting are considered a dainty morsel, and should be cooked and served with them. Whiting, Fried.—Wash, skin, and dry tho fish; flour it, shako off all that does not adhere; egg and crumb the fish (tho tail should bo fastened in the mouth), smooth it, and drop into hot fat. A golden brown is tho shade required. Drain, and dish on a paper or serviette, and fill the centre of the fish with fried parsley. Send cut lemon and cay- enno to table if for breakfast; or sauce if for luncheon or dinner. A very good one is tho hot Tautare Sauce (American). .Mandarins’ Sauce is equally suitable. Whiting coated with French Try- ing Batter is a good dish if fried crisply. Very small fish can bo fried like smelts, and served with cucumber sauce. Wliiting, to Skin.—Owing to the thinness of tho skin, and tho ten- derness of tho flesh, great caro is required to avoid ragginess. As a rule, this operation is performed by tho fishmonger. The fish should bo held firmly; tho fins are first cut off, and with thorn, a morsel of the skin; this makes an incision, and by running the thumb up to loosen the skin, and then removing it from head to tail, carefully, the process is not difficult. Tho skin is taken from tho head after- wards. Fresh haddocks are skinned in this way ; so are cols, but from their slippery nature they must be held very firmly. Very small ones are sometimes cookod with the skin on, then they must bo rubbed with a cloth dipped in salt, while held by the head in the left hand. This is applicable to any fish of a similar kind and shape. Wliit-ing with Herbs.—Re- quired : three medium-sized fish, filleted, seasoned and rolled as for Whiting with Shrimps; a large tablespoonful each of chopped parsley, shalots, and button mushrooms; a gill of wine (Chablis), the juice of half a lemon, salt, cayenne, vinegar, and fourrisn. m ounces of butter. Garnish as under- mentioned. Have ready a tin, any shape, hut it should be wide enough to just hold the fish when laid close together. Put in it the wine and lemon j uice ; lay the fish in, and sprinkle with the parsley, &c. Work into the butter a little salt, an- chovy essence, cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg, using a wooden spoon ; when creamy, lay a piece on each fillet of fish; cover with buttered paper, and set the tin in another containing hot water, and cook in the oven for ten or twelve minutes. Dish the fish in a pyramid form, add a spoonful of w'liite roux to the gravy, and a teaspoonful of herbal wine mixed with an equal measure of caper vinegar, and the fish stock ;* give a boil up, but do not skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish the base of the pyramid with fancy shaped slices of lemon, sprigs of parsley, button mushrooms, glazed, and tiny croutons. The mushrooms should be placed each on a crovlton, then a slice of lemon with parsley; some chopped parsley and mushrooms should also be shaken on the top of the sauce. Serve as an entree. Whiting with Shrimps.—In- quired : three medium-sized fish, half * Tliis should Pc boiled down to half a gill. a pint of freshly shelled shrimps, half a pint of stock, seasoning, &c., as under. The fish should he prepared and skinned, then divided into fillets by cutting down the back on each side, from head to tail, taking the flesh off close to the bone; each is to bo again divided; this gives twelve pieces. Season with salt and cayenne, brush over with warm butter, and roll up. Lay them close together in a tin, with a little wine, and a glass of French vinegar. Boil tho hones down for stock (sec Stocks) ; strain it, and add a little of it to tho vinegar; then cover with buttered paper, and hake for ten to twelve minutes in a good oven. Dish the fish, add the rest of the stock to tho gravy in the tin, put in a tea- spoonful of brown roux, and boil up : season to taste, then stir in the shrimps; when hot through pour into the centro of the dish, the whiting" forming an outer circle. The fish should ho prepared early io give time for the stock. A small, fresh haddock is good thus cooked ; it is made firmer for filleting if sprinkled with salt an hour before using, then wiped well, and dried in a soft cloth, in which it should he folded for a short time. So prepared, it can bo cooked in any of tho ways given for whiting, for which it is a good substitute.ENTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEVES. HOT ENTREES. On glancing at the above heading, the first thought of some will probably be, why entrees and made dishes P au entree is a made dish. So it is; but a made dish is not necessarily an entree. Heuec the distinction, although some of the made dishes of another section of this chapter could be served as entrees. But we will first consider, briefly, the main features of an entree proper. Au entree is a light, delicate, and daintily served dish, complete in itself; i.e. the sauce or gravy is served in the dish, which must, therefore, be deep enough to hold it, and afford scope for garnish ; for the dish should bo as pleasing to the eye as the palate, the one being affected through the other. Should vegetables form part of the dish, faultless cooking is an absolute necessity, or the dish will be only half complete. As to the foundation of an entree, it may be meat, game, poultry or fish ; the precise form in which it appears varying according to the style of the meal, the number of guests, the dish which ifnmediately precedes or follows the entree or entrees, and to other circumstances. As a rule, where two entrees appear, they should differ in kind and appearance; for instance, a dish of white quenelles, fowl, veal, or rabbit, with a puree of celery, furnishes a contrast to a civet of hare; while oyster or sweet- bread croquettes, rissoles, or vol-au-vents readily suggest themselves as suitable dishes to follow quails, or other birds, in a rich brown sauce. By the way, while some contend that birds, when served as an entree, should always bo the first if two arc provided, others say that the more delicately flavoured dish, whatever its composition, should take precedence; but such minor details are best settled by an intelligent hostess. In the case of two entrees, ono hot and one cold, the first-named is served first. There is a good reason for this, for were it otherwise, it would be difficult for the cook to determine the time when the hot one would be needed, and as is well-known, every minute detracts from the excellence of many dishes (cutlets are a striking example) when kept waiting. We said that the sauce should bo served in the dish; but an exception may be made in the case of souffles and little dishes, served separately to each guest, with which many people never think of taking any sauce; here the sauce should bo handed. It goes without saying that dozens of delicious entrees nre of the dry order — kromeskies, croquettes, and the like—because, if well made, i.e. moist inside, they require no sauce, as they may be said to contain it ; and the same remark applies to patties, vol au-vents, and other delicate wastry.SWEETBREAD CUTLETS WITH TOMATO SAUCE.EN’TREES, MAM DlSHfiS, AnI) MLEVeS. 207 Iu describing an entree as a light and delicate dish, at the risk of being misunderstood, we must explain that we are assuming the usual order of service, viz., the entrees before the releves. When this order is altered, by dispensing with the releve, in the form of a joint, an entree of a more solid nature is required, and is then admissible. At some houses, the releve always precedes the entrees, and various reasons are given for this. The usual explanation is, that guests who do not care to attack entrees until they have partaken of a plainer form of food, ought to be considered ; or that those who are really hungry, prefer the substantial part of the repast at an early stage of the meal. Whether this, or the reverse order is the better, is an open question, for very high authorities find much to say on both sides; what we would point out is that, when the remove does precede the entree, the latter may be as light in kind, and as delicate in flavour as circumstances permit, in order that the enjoyment of the roast, so often of game, and looked forward to by many as the bonne bouche of the meal, shall not be interfered with. Taken altogether, entrees afford full scope for the taste and ingenuity of the hostess, and for the skill of the cook. Our remarks would be incomplete without reference to entrees in tins, for they form no small portion of the stock of first-class grocers; and while many of them are excellent and moderate in price; yet it must be owned that to others, the term entree is somewhat of a misnomer. One caution may be enforced in connection with all, viz., never leave them in the tins after opening them. It is also well to remember that they are fully cooked, and that re-lieating, not re-cooking, is all that is needed; many, in fact, are over-cooked, and it is not easy to disli them without spoiling their appearance; though much may be done by means of garnish to hide any damage, and some sauce, thick enough to mask any broken places, often proves a real boon. Of the best quality entrees, put up by leading English and French firms, it may be said that for the most part, they are in every sense quite ready for table ; no addition, either of seasoning or wine, need be made ; but in dealing with goods of a lower class, especially kidneys, and meats which are somewhat dry, such additions, with a little good stock or gravy, will often completely transform the dish. All are useful, especially in emergencies, and a few tins should be stocked by all who are likely to be taken unawares by unexpected guests, or who are not within easy reach of shops, as every requirement may thus be met. Beef Billets a la Calcutta.— required : seven fillets of beef, cut in small rounds, and beaten out flat and even ; bacon, seasoning, sauce, and vegetables as below. Cost, about 3s. Gd. Brush the fillets with oil, and sprinkle with white pepper and cayenne; lard them, grill them lightly, and dish in a row, over- lapping, on the top of a puree of vegetables, or on cooked artichoke bottoms. Down each side put some Sauce a la Calcutta (in Cold Sauces), and servo instantly; tho sauco must not stand. In grilling the above, or any other fillets which may ho larded, a de- parture from tho usual method is necessary. They must ho grilled on tho under side only, and not turnedUNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK, 208 to displace the lardoons. In five minutes—more or loss in proportion to thickness—they should be put in a sharp oven to finish, after covering with a buttered paper. When done, if not brown enough, use the sala- mander ; brush over with glaze, and let them crisp nicely; they should not be greasy. Any other iced sauce may be used in this way, the dish talcing its name from the sauce. When not moulded, the sauce can bo cut in cubes or other shapes, just according to fancy. Beef Fillets a la Kars- lake.—Required: a dozen fillets of beef, truffles, throo gills of Brown Sauce No. 2, seasoning, butter, wine, &c., as below. Cost, 4s. to os. The fillets should bo oval, the size of a large egg, and about tho tliird of an inch thick ; and after brush- ing them on both sides with salad oil, and seasoning with pepper and cayenne, they should be grilled for five minutes. Tho brown sauce should then be heated, and after the fillets are drained well they should bo laid in the sauce, and kept at sim- mering point for about seven or eight minutes. In a separate saucepan, have tho truffles cut into dice shapes, enough to fill a couple of tablespoons, and half a gill of light wino; lot them simmer for a few minutes; then take a hot dish, and put on it, to form a border, some rice boiled as for curry, but in white stock instead of water. Arrange the fillets and sauce in the centre, and put the truffles and wine all over; pour a little more brown sauce round the rice, and all over it put a little good tomato sauce, mixed with a small quantity of glaze. This should be coloured to contrast with the rest of the dish. Servo as hot as possible. Beef Fillets h la Marleigh. —Prepare the meat and gravy just as directed in tho following recipe. Put some Potato Puree on a hot dish, making it pyramid shape; rough it with a skewer, and pour a little thick brown sauce mixed with a morsel of glaze over, then put on tho top somo Brown Mushroom Puree, from a bag with a plain pipe. Dish the fillets round tho potato, and pour the gravy round the fillets; tho latter should bo glazed. Warm some truffles in stock or wine; slice them, and cut them in fancy shapes; put one of those between the fillets; chop up tho remnants, and sprinkle them on the sauce. Two or three medium-sized ones will bo wanted. If no truffles are handy, use pickled walnuts for the garnish, and chop up a musliroom or two for putting on the sauce. Beef Fillets d, la STturn! on. —Required: seven fillets of beef, three-fourths of an inch thick, and cut into oval pieces; seasoning, &c., as bolow. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Bat the fillets out, lay them on a dish, and mix a little lemon juice, half a gill of salad oil, somo popper, a dust of cayenne, a pinch of thyme and bay-leaf in powder, and a little chopped onion. Marinade the fillets in the mixture for a couple of hours, turning often, then drain, and saute them in hot butter. They will take from seven to ten minutes if the meat is well hung, rather more if fresh. When tho gravy clots on the surface they are ready. Put them on a very hot dish near the fire, and prepare the gravy by boiling a gill of brown sauce, half a gill of gravy from roast beef, a tablcspoonful of sherry, and a squeeze of lemon juice; season to taste, and dish tho fillets overlapping, straight down the centro of a Block Croustade, slightly holknved, then pour half the gravy over. Round the fillets, put some macaroni cooked in stock, and pour over it the rest of tho gravy. Garnish with glazed croutons. Beef Fillets with Shrimps. —Required : nino fillets of beef, some potatoes, shrimps, and sauce as below. Cost, about 4s. Lard the fillets round tho edge only, then cook them as directod for Beef Fillets a la Calcutta. Make aENTREES, MADE DISnES, AND RELEVES. 209 Potato Border, dish the fillets en couronne; fill up the centre with Potato Ribbons, sprinkled with coral- line pepper. Make half a pint of Brown Sauce ; heat a gill of picked shrimps in half of it, and put some in the middle of each fillet. Then add to the remainder a glass of sherry, and a little pepper; boil it up, and pour it round the dish. This may be served for dinner in place of a joint; or in a meal of a few courses, it could follow the soup, and be followed by game or poultry. A largo steak, nicely grilled, is excellent served in the same way. The sauce should bo coloured with a little carmine, and prawns can be used in place of shrimps. A pat of Anchovy Butter should be put under the steak. Seef Olives d la Game- Required : two pounds of lean steak, bacon, seasoning, gravy, &c., as below. Prepare the steak as directed for Beef Olives. {See Joints.) After beating it out, sprinkle the top side with a little salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, parsley and thyme; lay on some strips of bacon, roll up, tie with tape, and put in a saute pan with a couple of ounces of clarified dripping or butter, heated to the point indicated as correct for instantaneous browning. (See p. 8.) After turning for a few minutes, remove them, pour the fat off, and wipe out the pan. Then return them, and pour over any gravy or sauce such as would do for liashing, or with game, but a very thick sauce is not desirable; the meat will cook better in a thin one; more thickening can be added towards the end. Any of the adjuncts for hare, &c., can also be served with the olives. Time to stew, from one to two hours; good quality taking the minimum time. If the meat is freshly killed, sprinkle with lemon juice or vinegar before rolling it. Cost varies with sauce and adjuncts. Another way.—Chop a scalded olive for each pieco of meat, and mix it with bacon and seasoning; then add a few olives, whole, to the gravy, a short time before serving ; or cook the meat in a thin Olive Sauce. Boudins a la Seine.—Lino some small buttered moulds with chicken or veal mixture, prepared as for quenelles. (See Veal Quenelles in this chapter.) To do this first cover the bottom of the moulds. Then put in more meat, and press it to the sides; make a hollow by means of tho handlo of a wooden spoon, first dipping it in warm water, then fill up the hollow with a small quantity of cooked sweet- bread—it should be boiled or braised, not fried—cut in tiny dice, and mixed with an equal quantity of thick bechamel. Cover with more quenelle mixture, and smooth the tops. Then poach for twenty to thirty minutes. Have ready some artichoke bottoms, cooked, and masked with thick bechamel. Dish the boudins one on each, and in the centre of the dish put a pile of the same vegetable cut in dice, and some asparagus points, mixed with sauce as above. Or a Puree of Asparagus may bo used; tho points being separately cooked, and sprinkled over tho top. Boudins, Beef and Tomato. —Required : some Tomato Butter, Tomato Sauce, a Vermicelli Border, Beef Sausage Meat, croutons, and seasoning. Cost, about Gd. each. Prepare a mould as in Chicken in Vermicelli, p. 212. Butter somo boudin moulds (Fig 61), and dredge Fio. 01.—Boudin Mould. them with bread-crumbs; shako out all tho loose ones, then fill them with beef sausago meat from a bag and pipe; knock them on tho table; they must bo well filled; then make a hollow with tho finger, or a spoon handle, dipped in hot water; fill it upUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 210 with tomato butler. Cover with more sausage meat, and level the tops. Put a sheet of buttered paper on, and bake in a gentle oven, about half an hour. Pass a palette knife round, turn out carefully, and dish them on the border. Pour brown tomato sauce over them. While they are cooking, a-beef sausage or two should bo cooked, by frying or broiling. Then make some round croutons; put a little slice of the sausage on each, and mask with tomato butter; use these for garnishing tho base of the mould, with small cherry tomatoes, fried or braised, in between. Fill up the mould with Brown Macaroni, garnished on the top with tomatoes as used for the base. Boudins, Mushroom h la fjliarlecotta.—Required : some beef quenelle mixture, half a gill of mush- room ketchup, the same of beef gravy or stock, a pound of mushrooms, two ounces of butter, seasoning, eggs, maca- roni, &c. Cost, about 3s. per dozen. Wash tho mushrooms, cut them up, put them in a pan with the butter, some seasoning, a morsel of shalot, chopped, and the gravy and ketchup; cook and sieve the mixture, then beat in the eggs, two good-sized, or throe small. Butter some small moulds, sprinkle with grated ham and bread- crumbs, line them with the quen- elle mixtui'o, and put some of tho mushroom in tho centre, then cover with more quenelle mixture. Knock them on tho table, so as to well fill. Then cover with buttered paper and bake in a tin filled half their- depth with boiling water for ten minutes. Then take them from the tin (the latter must bo removed), dry them, and finish them on the oven shelf for ten to fifteen minutes more. Turn out, and dish on a ring-shaped croustado; fill up the centro with macaroni cooked in stock, and pour Brown Mushroom Sauce on the top. Pour a little Brown Sauce round, and serve hot. Make the quenelle mixturo as directed for Game Quenelles in this chapter, using beef in place of garno. Brains in Potato Cases.— Required: half a pint of Parsley Sauce, two eggs, boiled hard, tho brains of a sheep or calf, and a couple of ounces of cooked ham, some pota- toes, and garnish as below. Prepare the cases, round or oval, as directed for Kidney in Potato Casks, in this chapter. Make the sauce, and mix t he cooked ham and brains with it; both should be cut in dice; heat and season, and add the whites of the eggs also in dice. Finish off as before, and sprinkle with the yolks of tho eggs, passed through a siove. A pinch of powdered thyme, and a drop of essence of mace or nutmeg- should be added to tho sauce; a good deal of the success of dishes of this kind depends upon tho seasoning. Another way.—After filling the cases, put the rest of the potato mix- ture on with a spoon, then make it smooth with a knife, but form it dome shaped. Brush over with the yolk of a raw egg, and mark with a skewer, then heat in a sharp oven. The little cases must bo well buttered. In following this recipe, put the yolks of tho hard eggs into the sauce; they may be cut up or sieved. Egg sauce can bo used instead of parsley sauce. Calf’s Feet a la Elanquette. —Required : two feet, sauce as below, eggs, garnish, &c. Cost, about 2s. The feet should be boiled, and left to cool: the bones removed, and the meat cut into neat pieces of equal size. A pint of Bechamel should be brought to the boil, and thickened with the yolks of two raw eggs in the usual way, then flavoured with a single drop of almond essence. The meat must then be put in, and left until heated, turned on a hot dish, and garnished with cut lemons, and croutons coated with sieved egg yolk and chopped parsley. When almond flavouring is objected to, uso a little lemon juice, or herbal vinegar. Calf's Feet a l'Unez. {See recipe for Sauce Verte.)—Make enough sauce to coat the feet; prepareENTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEVES. 211 them as above, heat them in it, and then proceed as follows : Make some cooked artichoke bottoms hot, put some of the meat on each, leaving a margin, then round the edge of the artichoke, put a Pur fin of Peas from a bag with small pipe. On the top of the meat, in the middle of the pile, put a small ring-shaped crouton; in the centre, put more of .the peas puree, and round it, on the ring, place tiny egg balls ; the croutons should bo glazed, and the balls not larger than a pea. (Sir Garnishes.) These should be put fiat on a dish, the centre being- filled with more peas puree, dotted about with egg balls. These should be the size of a marble. This is a very pretty dish. Cost, 2s. Gd. to 3s. Calf's Head. Croquettes.— These will furnish a very good entice at small cost, if a little care be exer- cised in the preparation. Supposing the remains of a head cooked for dinner, with some of the sauce, brains, and tongue, are at hand. Cut the meat &e., small, and mix with enough sauce to form a creamy mass, which will mould when cold, and retain its shape. A little strong stock will assist this. It should be divided into portions the size of a small walnut, floured, dipped in Rich Frying Batter, rather thicker than usual, then fried in very hot fat. When cooked, the inside should be moist and creamy; but if made large, the fat not hot enough, or the batter not thick enough, the result will l>e failure. I>o not try to cook many at a time, or the fat will be too much reduced in temperature to brown and crisp them properly. Dish nicely, and garnish with fried parsley. If liked, a smail proportion of cook'd veal forcemeat may lie mixed with the above. Or some forcemeat balls can bo cooked, and put about the dish with the croquettes. Canapes a la Shorncliffe.— Required: a dozen croutons, cut with a two and a quarter inch cutter with a crimped edge. When fried, glaze the edges half an inch round, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Make a mince by passing half a pound of any sort of cooked game through a sieve, add two or three ounces of pate do foie gras, also sieved, a tahlespoon- ful of sherry, in which a morsel of glaze has been dissolved, the same measure of truffle essence, and brown sauce, No. 2. Make this hot in a bain- marie, and put a little heap on each crouton. Cut some small slices of the foie gras, free from fat; heat them as above, and put one on each canape. Sprinkle a few fried crumbs over, and serve hot. Cost, indefinite. Chicken Creams, a la Gra- itame.—Required : six ounces of raw chicken, two ounces of boiled ham, four ounces of Panada, four eggs, half a glass of sherry, half a gill of Brown Sauce, and a quarter ounce of glaze. Pound and sieve the ham and chicken; pound the panada, add the yolks of the eggs, mix altogether, and pound again. Dissolve the glaze in the sauce, add the wine, and whip the whites of the eggs (two only) to a froth. Blend all lightly, and season with salt and pepper, and a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Butter some little fancy moulds, “ leaf,” “ shell,” &c.; fill them, and cook like Quenelles. They will take from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn out and dish them on a shallow ring- croustade, with a spinach or any other green puree in the centre. The creams are to rest on tho purfie, the bottoms only on the croustade. A gravy, made from the bones, and thickened, should be poured round. Cost, about 2s. Gd. Chicken Creams, a la Victor. —Use thick supreme, or other rich sauce, in place of tho wine, glaze, and brown sauce in the above recipe. Cook in tho same way, and coat the creams with thick supremo sauce ; sprinkle them with a littlo chopped parsley, and sieved egg yolk, and servo a puree of any seasonahlo vegetable in tho centre. If a wliito one, mask it with supreme Banco, coloured a pale green.212 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. If a green puree, the same sauce left white should be used. Cost, as above. Chicken in Vermicelli.—Re- quired : milk, eggs, vermicelli, chicken, and garnish as under. Cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. Mix half a pint of milk with an ounce and a half of vermicelli; let it stand for an hour or two, then add to it a little cayenne, chopped onion, first scalded, and a pinch of mace; put in a clean pan, and stir to the boil, then cook for a quarter of an hour; take It from the fire, add salt, and when cool beat in two eggs, first whisking them a little. Then beat in half a gill of ci'eam. Line a plain border mould with strips of cooked ham and tongue, free from fat, put in the vermicelli, cover and steam for half an hour. Turn out, and put in the centre any nice mince of chicken. (See Game and Poultry.) Outside the mould, place a few croutons with a little good sauce, as maitro d’hotel, veloute, bechamel, &c. In steaming the mould, place a thick paper at the bottom of the stewpan; or cook in a potato steamer, letting the water simmer only, but in this case it is well to place a fold of paper in the steamer, as the mould requires steady cooking. If the vermicelli is put in the mould alternately with Cuicken Quenelle mixture, a nicer dish will be the result. In putting the vermicelli in, a spoon must be wetted, and used for smooth- ing it. Any white moat can take the place of chicken. Chicken Quenelles.—See Veal Quenelles, and use chicken in placo of veal. Corbeilles si la Talbot.—Re- quired : a sheep’s kidney, a sweet- bread, some sauce, Bechamel or Rich Melted Butter, garnish, &c., as below. (See Corbeilles a la Toulouse.) Prepare the moulds as therein di- rected ; after baking, fill with a ragout made by mincing the cooked kidney and sweetbread, and adding it to the sauce, just enough to make a creamy mixture ; it must be deli- cately seasoned with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Have ready a couple of hard-boiled eggs, pass the yolks through a sieve, and chop some parsley. Fill the baskets with the mince, and sprinkle with the eggs and parsley. Instead of the sweet- bread, the brain of a calf, lamb, or sheep, may be used : after blanching, it may "be cooked in any way to preserve its colour. A very small proportion of cooked calf’s head can also be mixed in, and any rich white sauce will answer. Cost, 2s. to 2s. Cd. Corbeilles A la Toulouse.— Required, for these, some pastry niado as for a Savoury Fleur (see Pastry) and somo RagoCt A la Toulouse : see recipe. Cost, 6d. each, or more. Line some basket moulds with the paste, trim neatly round the edges, and then line with buttered papers filled with rice; bake until done, take out the rice and papers, and put back in the oven for a minute, then fill them with the ragout, and sprinkle the surface with a little chopped truffle and lobster coral. The handles* of the baskets may be made of strips of the paste.; it should bo bent be- fore baking to the required shape, and a weight, or anything sufficiently heavy, must be placed between the pieces to keep them from spreading, as they cannot be bent after baking. If no basket moulds are at hand Fio. 02.—Deep, Fluted Patty Pax. some deep, fluted patty pans, round or oval, may be substituted, but they must have wide tops and small bottoms. The handles look prettier if the strips of paste are cut with a wheel to give them a crimpod appearance. * See Pastry Baskets in l'astry.ENTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEV^S. 213 The illustration (Fig. 62) shows tho kind of patty pans referred to; they may be had in tin or copper, and are useful for many purposes. Tho wheel paste cutter is illustrated under Pastry. C'orbsilles, Superlative. (See the recipe above.)—Pass some cooked game through a sieve after pounding it; add to a gill of it a tablespoonful of sherry, the same of Brown Sauce, a dessertspoonful of Fumet of Game, a chopped truflle and a mushroom, a half teaspoonful of sweet herbs, a table- spoonful of whipped cream, and a little salt and pepper. Stir in tho bain-marie until hot, then fill tho corbcilles, and garnish the handles with a sprinkling of egg yolk, boiled hard and sieved. Tiny leaves of pastry can be baked, and used for decorating the tops after filling. Cost, variable. Creams, Pigeon, in Cases. —Mince the meat of some cooked birds, and mix it with any of the sauce or gravy that may be left, just enough to moisten it. Braised, stewed, or roasted birds can be used up in this way. Then put some white farce in buttered china cases; put in the mixture, and cover with moro farce; cook as directed for Quails in CAses, p. 221. Then take the cases up, and finish by masking with white of egg, &c., as therein directed. The white farce may be from veal or Chicxes Quenelle mixture; a table- spoonful of cream, and the same of creamy bechamel being added to four ounces. A small proportion of foie gras, or liver forcemeat, is an i mprove- ment; if any stuffing from the birds is at hand, this will not bo needed. Other birds may bo used in the same way. Creams, Veal, k la Dela- ville.—Required: some Veai. Sausage Meat, truffles, sauce, &c., as below. Butter some little fancy moulds, and put tiny stars of truffle about them, with strips of cooked tonguo and ham; fill with tho sausage meat, adding to half a pound a tablespoonful each of grated Parmesan cheese, and cream, and a dust of cayenne. Poach these just like quenelles; time ac- cording to size. Have ready a mixture of cucumber, carrots and turnips, all cut into rounds or olives (if the former, they should bo tho size of a nut), and nicely cooked. (See Dressed Vegetables.) Somo arti- choko bottoms should be heated and put round a dish, on each of which one of tho little creams should bo placed, with tho mixed vegetables in tho centre. Make some Cream Sauce, using any white stock for tho basis; flavour with Parmesan, and let it stand for a few minutes, then pour somo round the base, and some in the middle of tho vegetables. Tho sauco for the base should be coloured pink or pale green. CoEt, about Gd. each. Croquettes it la Heine.— Required : threo ounces of cooked chicken (breast), three ounces of boiled sweetbread, two ounces of ham, half a dozen button mushrooms, an ounce each of fine flour and butter, half a gill of good white stock, half a gill of cream, salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little lemon juice, bread-crumbs, and an egg. Cost, about 2s. Remove the skin from the chicken, and any fat from the ham ; mince very finely ; cut the sweetbread in tho samo way. Then mix together, and boil thoroughly, the flour, butter, cream, and stock ; peel the mushrooms, rinse them in lemon juice, and chop them small; add them, with tho meat, to the panada, and spread on a buttered dish. When cool, mould them into small balls, tho size of walnuts, but perfectly round ; egg and crumb them, and fry a pale brown. Garnish with fried parsley. If sauco is served it should be rich, Supreme or Sauce Jaune, for instance. These are bettor if prepared an hour or two before frying, as they become firmer. To onsuro firmness, somo advise a second coaling of egg and crumbs. This is not dcsirablo when tho articles aro very small and214 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. delicate, as the coating is then apt to ho too firm. In frying them, take care not to lift them out and Gxposo them to tho air before thoy are likely to he done, or they may hurst. Let them drain on kitchen paper while tho parsley is fried, and serve as hot as possible. Croquettes au Financiere. —Mince very finely the livers of two fowls, a sweetbread, six small mush- rooms, and two truffles. Add a shalot, scalded. Season rather highly with pepper and salt. Put one ounce of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then mix with it very smoothly and slowly a tablespoonful of flour. When it is lightly browned, add the mince, and a little truffle essence, and simmer for ton minutes, stirring all the time. Add a glass of light wine to tho mixture, and simmer it gently for a few minutes longer. When it is cold and stiff, mould it into small balls, and fry these in the usual way. The sweetbread should bo parboiled before using it. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Another way.— If no sweetbread is obtainable, use the brain of a sheep or calf, boiled, and left to cool; and calf’s livor, instead of fowl’s can be used; hut it must be very finoly minced, or pounded and sieved. Another way.—Minco four or five small oysters, and stir in the mixture made as above; reduce the oyster liquor, and add some of it instead of half the wine. Or reserve all the liquor, and mix it with bechamel, then serve it with the croquettes. Garnish with fried parsley. Croustades, Grouse, a la Danvei’3.—Required: some paste as below, grouse, ham, tongue, truffles, stock, &c. Cost, about Gd. each. Line small moulds, one for each person, with tho short paste given for Fleurs Savoury. Bake as directed, until crisp. Minco some cooked ham and tongue, an ounce and a half of each, a tablcspoonful of trufflo, and six ouncos of roasted grouse; pass through a mincer if possible. Put half a pint of stock (No. 5) on to boil with half an ounce of glaze, half a glass of sherry, salt and pepper, and a little roux; simmer until thick, then add the meat, &c. The mixture should just drop from the spoon. Lot it heat through, then fill tho cases; sprinkle fried crumbs over tbe surface, and put a star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre. Any game, with suitable seasoning, may be used in the same way. For the moulds, see recipes in Pastry. Croustades, Mutton, a la Danvers. (See the recipe for Croustades, Grouse, a la Danvers.) —Prepare the cases in tho same way, and fill up with the following mince : Put half a pint of brown stock (No. 5), in a saucepan, with half a glass of claret, a teaspoonful of extract of moat, half an ounce of glaze, and a tablespoonful of tomato puree; boil until reduced a fourth, add salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of rod currant jelly. Add a little brown roux, and boil up. Put in the meat, about a gill; it must be from under-done mutton, and finely minced. Cover, and let it remain for half an hour, below boiling- point. Then use as directed, and garnish with tiny crou- tons, covered with Tomato Butter; putting one in tho centre, and smaller ones round tho edge of each croustado. Dish on a hot dish covered with a lace paper or serviette. Cost, 3d. or id. each. In removing the croustades from the tins, be careful to avoid breaking the bottoms, as the crust is crisp, and should be thin; should this happen, brush the inside with glaze, and put in tho oven a minuto beforo putting in the mince, otherwise it would run through, and spoil tho appearance of the dish. Cutlets with Cherries. — Proparo nice cutlets of lamb or mutton, by grilling or broiling them plainly, then dish thorn round a Pur£e of Green Haricots or other vegetables, but they must be green, and a good colour. Make a sauce (for six orENTREES, MADE DISIIES, AND RELEVES. 215 eight cutlets) by boiling half a pint of claret down to a gill and a half; put in two or three tablespoonfuls of brown stock, and the same of glace cherries, halved, and a teaspoonful of glaze; simmer again for ten minutes, then pour round the base of the cutlets: put white frills on them. Have some cherries whole, cooked in the claret; put a ring of these round the edge of the vegetable puree, and a little heap in the centre. Send brown sauce to table, with a tahlespoonful of claret and the same of chopped cherries mixed in it. Cost, about 9d. each, inclusive. Cutlets with. Damsons. (See Cutlets with Cherries.)—Substi- tute Pickled Damsons for the glace cherries ; they should he drained from the liquid, dried, and the stones re- moved. Then proceed as therein directed. Cost, as above. Cutlets with Peas and Cream.—Take as many cutlets as are needed, from the loin or neck of mutton or lamb (veal may he used also), and dip them into warm butter, then into beaten egg and crumbs ; fry them, or saute, a very pale brown. Dish them on a potato border, and put pink frills on them. Ornament the centre of each with Greek Pea PuhJie, from a bag with a leaf pipe. Prepare the garnish by frying some small triangular croutons, coat them with thick tomato sauce, and stick them up round the base of the border. Put a high eroustade in the centre, and cover it with more peas puree from a large leaf tube. A little good gravy should be poured round the cutlets. Cost, about 9d. each. Darioles, Chicken. — Butter some hexagon dariole moulds (see Fig. 63), and put a star-shaped slice of tongue at the bottom ; round this, put some sieved egg-yolk. Orna- ment the sides: one with chopped parsley, one with shredded ham, the next with egg yolk, the fourth with little sprigs of tarragon and chervil, the fifth and sixth with ham and egg yolk, like sections two and throe. Fill up with a chicken mince, cover with buttered paper, and steam in a pan of boiling water for thirty, to forty minutes. The water must simmer only, and should not reach more than half way up the moulds. Put a thick fold of paper at the bottom beforo Fig. 63.—Hexagon Dariole Mould.* setting the darioles in. Turn out, and serve any rich white sauce round them, or put them in a circle round a dish, and till up with sparghetti or macaroni, garnished like the moulds. The mince is made by taking some chicken quenelle mixture, and adding to every four ounces a teaspoonful of white mushroom puree. Duck, Filleted.—Take the meat from the breasts of a couple of ducks, roasted, cut it into nice fillets, and lay them in a stewpan, with a glass of port and a little game gravy (see Gravies); add a bit of glaze, and season highly. Cover, and leave for ten minutes. Put a mound of green peas on a hot dish in the centre of a lvixo Crocstade. Dish the fillets on the bread, and pour the sauce over. Then put slices of tomatoes and olives (first cooked whole in stock) between, by way of garnish. Cost, variable. Duck, Filleted, in Olive Sauce.—Prepare the fillets as above; heat them in Olive Sauce, and dish them on macaroni, made by boiling macaroni in stock No. 5, until done, then forming it in a ring. The sauco should bo thick, so us to mask tho fillets. Put a Green Haricot 1’c it ins * Thin is n very useful mould for ninny pur» pospg; it turns out well, ami nllonls plenty of scope for gnrnisli.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 216 ill the centro, and garnish with French plums stowed in claret, and Braised Olives ; pour some more sauce round the border; this may be rather thinner. Cost, variable. Duck, Filleted, in Potsdam or Schiller Sauce is obtained by using either sauce for the duck, in place of the above. Ducklings a la Wells dene.— Prepare the birds as for roasting; wash and dry the insides, then season with salt and pepper. Stuff them with a good Veal Forcemeat, with a lablespoonful of tomato pulp added to the quantity required for each duck- ling. When half roasted, put them in a baking tin with more tomato pulp, and finish the cooking, basting well from time to time with the tomato. When done, flour them, and let them brown ; mix a little gravy or brown stock with the contents of the baking tin; scrape well to re- move any encrustation from the bottom, then boil it up. Pour some on the dish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Before dishing the ducklings, joint thorn, and uso the best parts only for the dish. They should be placed high, and only enough gravy to coat them poured over. A macedoine of vegetables, or green peas only, may be used round the dish. Cost, about 4s. 6d. each. Financiere Ragout is a de- licious mixture. It is sold in bottles, the ingredients being preserved in a clear jelly; nothing more is wanted but good brown sauce. The bottle is set in the bain-marie until the contents are hot, then the sauce is added, or the ragout is served separately and the sauce sent to tablo in addition. Cocks’ combs and kernels, truffles, button mushrooms and scallops of sweetbread are the main ingredients of the ragout, which costs from 4s. to 8s. per bottle; and although expensive, it would cost as much to prepare the ingredients at home, separately; and it is questionable if the result would be so satisfactory in many instances, though very often, for economy’s sake, it is a good plan to add more sweet- bread, small quenelles of white meat, or brains cooked and cut up, to make the ragout go further. Needless to remark, such a preparation is only suited to dishes of the most recherche kind, liagoftt a la Toulouse is mado by mixing Financiere Ragout with bechamel or supreme, instead of brown sauce. The uses of these two ragouts are detailed in various recipes. Foie Gras with Financiere Ragout.—This is a rich entree; a little goes a long way. A tin of foie gras, of the size required, should bo heated in the bain-marie, then wiped with a clean cloth, and some Brown Sauce, No. 2, poured over. A round croustade should be put underneath it. This should be an inch and a half thick, and a triflo larger than the foio gras. The Financiere RagoCt should then be heated in some of the above sauce, and put on and round the foio gras, hatelet skewers being used for the top garnish. A potato border, glazed, may be used in place of the bread, if liked, and to make the ragout go farther, a few pieces of tongue may be stamped out and heated with it. These should be cut in the shape of cocks’ combs. Foie Gras with Turkey.— Heat the foie gras as above, and cut the breast of a cooked turkey into fillets; these should be heated in gravy or sauco which has been served with it; then cut the foie gras into slices of the same size, and dish the two alternately. After masking the foio gras with rich brown sauce, and tho turkey with thick bechamel or supreme sauco, they may be put in a ring, or straight down the dish. Garnish with fancy-shaped crofitons, masked alter- nately with the two sauces: the white should be sprinkled with truffle, and the brown with sieved egg yolk and parsley. In between, put little heaps of button mushrooms, cooked and glazed.ENTRIES, MADE DISIIES, AND RELEV&3. 217 Chicken can be used instead of turkey. This is an exceedingly nice entree, very rich : a small dish will serve a good number of persons. Fowl a la Jubilaire. (See Rabbit a la Lymchurch.)—Joint a fowl and cook it exactly as therein described; use the breast, legs, and wings for the dish. If liked, cook the fowl whole, and joint it after. Pile lip tho pieces, and mask with Sauce Jubilaike. Make a Pubee op As- paragus, reserving the points; place this round the dish, and garnish it with ham and tongue, as in the recipe referred to. Prepare some pea-shaped pieces of carrot, cook them until tender, and place little heaps alternately with the asparagus tips about the dish, or some turnips may be halved and scooped out, forming cups : these can be filled after cooking with the above vegetables, and placed about the dish. Before filling, coat them with sauce. Cost, varies with adjuncts. Another way.—Bone the fowl, cover the inside with strips of ham and tongue, season, and sprinkle with chopped parsley, roll up tightly, tie in a buttered cloth, and cook as above. Then slice it, mask with the sauce, and proceed as in the preceding recipe. This is a superior dish; it is more convenient for serving, and there is no waste. The bones should be boiled with the fowl, then cooked longer for stock as usual. A very white-fleshed bird must be usftd for this. Game in Vermicelli. — Re- quired : a mould of vermicelli, a few Game Quenelles, some croutons, brown and white sauces, foie gras, etc., as below. Cost, varies with the game. Make a mould as directed for Chicken in Vermicelli. Turn it out and fill the centre with a game puree— any cooked game may be used; it should be minced and mixed with brown sauce No. 2, until thick enough to only just drop from a spoon. Make some foie gras puree by rubbing foio gras through a sieve, and mixing with tho same sauce used for tho game; spread the crofttons with it, and dot them about the top of the mince; on tho border lay some quenelles, moulded (see Game). Then mix some chopped truffle with a little thick bechamel, or other good white sauce, and pour round the base of tho mould. Put a spot of it on the top of the mince in the centre, and a similar spot in tho middle of each crofiton. Hare,Moulded and Steamed. —Required : half a pound of hare, raw, the same weight of bacon, half the weight of bread, soaked in stock, squeezed dry, and pounded with the yolks of three eggs; seasoning, gravy, and jelly. Cost, about 2s. to 2s.fid. Butter a plain mould (it should be shallow), pass tho hare and half the bacon through a mincer, season well with salt, pepper, cayenne, lemon peel, parsley and thyme, a powdered bay- leaf, and some tomato puree, about a tablespoonful; add the bread and eggs, with the rest of tho bacon cut in thin strips. Press this firmly in the mould, and twist a buttered paper over. Steam it from forty to fifty minutes, accord- ing to the depth of the mould, then turn out. Melt four ounces of red currant jelly, pour this over, after glazing tho mould well, then pour round tho base some brown sauce, with a tablcspoonful of claret, the same of tomato pulp, and a seasoning of salt and pepper ; to half a pint. If preferred, tomato jelly can take the place of the currant. Tho sauce should bo coloured a little with carmine. Small moulds may be used for this. They should be dished on crofttons, or rich potato cakes, wTith a little cold fruit jelly on the top, and the sauco poured round tho base. Kidney d la Vance.—Required: a calf’s kidney, half a pint of Brown Sauce, No. 2, a small tin of mushrooms, seasoning, green peas, garnish, &c., as under. Cost, about 2s. Gd., variable. Cut tho fat from tho kidney, slico it, after rinsing in cold water with a few drops of lemon juice, then dry, and cut the slices into dice. Melt anUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. ■218 ounce or two of biittor in a saute pan, coolc tho kidney for ten minutes, lightly, shaking the pan often, and taking care not to harden tho meat. Then drain the butter from it, and add tho brown sauce, with a teaspoonful each of sherry and lemon juice; simmer for ton minutes, then stir in the mush- rooms, cut up, and heat the whole; season nicely, and pile up on a hot dish. Boil some green peas, or use tinned ones, place them round to form a border, and garnish with leaf-shaped croutons, brushed over with glaze, placing some on tho top, and the rest round the peas. Some whole button mushrooms may he fried and glazed {see Mushrooms), and used for garnish- ing in addition to tho peas if liked, then some Musuiioom Purise may be mixed with the kidney. Kidney a la Vera. —Prepare a calf’s kidnoy as described in tho preceding recipe, but instead of brown sauce and mushrooms, use white sauce and cooked macaroni cut into half-inch lengths. Pour on a hot dish, and sprinkle grated Parmesan choose over, then place some croutons round, brush thorn with butter, and sprinkle with choose. Brown with a salamander, and put heaps of cookod macaroni, mixed with a little warm cream, between tho crohtons. Then cut some cookod ham into strips, and glaze them—after warming them in stock—and place them about tho macaroni. Kidney in Potato Gases.—Re- quired : a calf’s kidnoy, a small slice of liver, two or three ounces of bacon, a small onion and a mushroom, season- ing, sauce, and potatoes; garnish as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 6d. Prepare tho potatoes as for a “bor- der ; ” line some china cases at the bottom and sides. Cut tho bacon up and fry it lightly; remove, and fry the kidney, liver, onion, and mushroom in the same fat; then drain, add a gill of Brown’Sauce (or tomato) and a tea- spoonful of sherry, simmer, and rub through a coarse wire sieve; add the bacon and fill the cases. Tut some Potato Punta in a hag with a rose pipe; cover the tops, and brown in a quick oven. Dish up on a lace paper; sprinkle some with chopped parsley, some with grated ham and coralline pepper, and the remainder with truffles, or pickled walnuts, heated, drained, and cut finely. Put the mix- ture in deep, china scallop shells if more convenient, and serve as Kidney, Scalloped. If preferred, mince the kidney, &c., by putting it through a mincer instead of sieving it: this should he done before cooking. In lining the cases, moisten tho palette knife now and then; the coating of potato at the side should be thinner than at tho bottoms of the cases. Kromeskies a la Beaufort.— Required : four ounces each of cooked fowl, ham, and tongue; some Tomato Butter, two eggs, seasoning, as below; frying batter and ham to form tho kromeskies. (See next recipe for making them.) Cost, about 2s. Mince the meat, season with salt and pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg and lemon peel; add tho eggs, boiled hard, and cut in dice, and enough tomato butter to mako tho mass soft enough to just drop from a spoon; it should ho added gradually until tho right consistency is obtained. In forming the kromeskies caro must be taken not to put in too much “ filling,” and it must bo kept well from tho edges of the slices of ham (these must be very thin, and cut from boiled ham); great care is always necessary when tho filling is of a soft nature, but tho result, when cooked, repays for the little extra trouble. Sprinkle a dash of coralline pepper over when fried, and garnish with fried parsley. Kromeskies a la Carslialton. —Required: two ounces eacli of cooked game, tongue, and rabbit; a pinch of mushroom powder, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a morsel of thyme, fresh if possible, chopped; if dried thyme, rub it through a fine siovo;ENTitEES, MADE DISHES, AND UELEVES. 219 salt, cayenne, and black popper to taste, a morsel of shalot chopped small, and half a gill of Brown Sauce. Bacon and batter as below are also required. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. First, put the brown sauce in a small pan with the shalot and parsley; stir over the fire for a minute, then remove the pan, and put in all the meat cut in very small squares, but not chopped; stir in a bit of glaze the size of an olive, mix well, add the seasoning, and set by to cool. Prepare the batter by the recipe for Kick Frying Batter, and cut some thin slices of bacon about two inches wide, and two and a half inches long. Put a little mince on the bacon, roll up cork shape, close the ends, and dip each into the batter; see that it coats the bacon in every part, then drop them into plenty of hot fat, and fry a light brown, but quite crisp. Dish on a lace paper laid on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. The bacon must be as thin as possible, and after the slices are cut they should be flattened out with a knife, then trimmed evenly to the size required. Uromeskies a la Fortescue. —Required : two ounces each of cooked sweetbread, chicken, and tongue; a tablespoonful of rich sauce, Bechamel or Supreme; the same measure of cooked button mushrooms, seasoning, frying batter and bacon, and an egg. Cut the sweetbread into dice, and the chicken and tongue into small strips; chop the mushrooms, and mix the whole with the sauce over the fire, then remove the pan, and add the seasoning, and when cooled a little, the yolk of the egg. Mix thoroughly, and put by to get cold. Finish off as directed for Kkomeskies A la C'au- siialton. Cost, about Is. Cd. to Is. 9d. Kromeskies of Game.—Take any game which has been roasted or braised; cut it up, and pass it through a sieve ; to halt a pound, put an ounce of minced ham or bacon, cooked, a minced truffle, and a dessertspoonful of port; add a hard-boiled egg in dice, and season rather highly. Pleat half a gill of Brown Sauce, or any similar thick sauce which may have been served with the game ; mix with it the meat, &c., then put aside until celd, and finish off as directed for Keomes- kies A la Caksiialton. If more convenient, gravy can be used instead of sauce, but it must be thickened with roux and a hit of glaze. Lamb Cutlets a la Westma- cotte.— Required: five cutlets, a sheep’s kidney, a small onicn, a little flour and butter, half a pint of stock from mutton bones, a small cucumber, half a dozen olives, salt and pepper, a few capers, and a little vinegar and wine. Cost, about 3s. Gd. to 4s. Trim the cutlets and brown them \n the butter ; cut up the onion, add it, and sprinkle with flour, brown it also. When the meat is a delicate yellow put it in another pan with the onion, add the stock, and the olives, scalded, also the capers, chopped; then cut the cucumber upsmall,put itin,and simmer for twenty to thirty minutes; season nicely. Then pass the cucumber and stock through a sieve, and boil it up with a little glaze. Dish the cutlets round a bed of any vegetable pre- ferred ; pour tho sauce round, and uso the olives as garnish, together with some more whole capers, and the kidney. The latter should he cut in dice, and he lightly cooked in butter for a minute or two, then finished off in a tablcspoonful of sherry; a couple of minutes’ simmering is sufficient for it. The onion should ho removed beforo the sauce is sieved. Lamb Cutlets in Cream Sauce.—-Required : seven cutlets, a tin of mushrooms, some potatoes, wine, &c. Cost, about 4s., or more. Trim tho cutlets neatly, put them in a saute pan in hot butter or oil, and brown them on both sides; then drain, wipe out tho pan, and put in the liquid from tho mushrooms, half a glass of light wine, a morsel of shalot, and a few wliito peppercorns ; simmer,220 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. with frequent shaking for forty minutes, then brush over with glaze, and dish in a ring round Potato Olives. The latter should be brushed over with warm butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Heat the mush- rooms in Cream Sauce ; add the liquor from tho pan, first reducing it, then pour tho whole round the cutlets. Lamb Barioles with Peas.— Required : a pound of lamb, any lean part, four eggs, some peas, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. Cd. Lay the raw meat on a board, and scrupo it; put tho pulp thus obtained in a basin, season to taste, add the eggs, beaten and strained, and a gill of Brown Sauce. Fill some moulds, as illustrated, garnish tho tops first with some cooked carrot and tongue in thin strips, and cook them in a potato steamer for about half an hour. Pre- pare the peas by boiling nicely, put them in tho middle of the dish, with tho dariolos round, and pour a little Fig. 04.—Flat-top Fluted Dariole Mould. Sauce he Menthe round tho base. These little moulds require very thorough buttering to onsuro the con- tents turning out well. Tho copper ones, tin-lined, are tho best, as tho cooking is more even, besides lasting much longer. Lamb Barioles with Tuv- nips.—Prepare tho darioles as di- rected above, but substitute White Sauce for brown. Put a nice Puree of Turnips in the contrc of tho dish, and pour white sauce over the darioles. To this and the preceding, another egg and an ounce of panada should ho added if the full time cannot be given for tho cooking; by thickening tho mixture, less timo is required. Lamb and Eggs, a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Required : a pound of lamb, a pint of MaItre d’Hotel Sauce, three eggs, some small tomatoes, crou- tons and seasoning, carrots and tur- nips. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 6d. Cut the lamb, which must be lean, in squares as if for curry; fry them a little in a saute pan, then drain, and pour over them a little warm stock, from mutton bones, to cover; bring gently to the boil, and cook until done; a few peppercorns and a small bunch of herbs should be put with tho meat. Boil the eggs hard, quarter them; slice, and broil or grill the tomatoes; boil tho carrots and turnips with tho lamb, and slice them also, or cut them in any nice shapes. Then put tho meat in tho sauce and heat it; pour it in tho middle of a dish, and form a border with tho sliced vegetables, alternating them. Put tho eggs on tho croutons, which should bo oval, and place them round the dish, leaving one for the top. Note.—The stock in which tho meat is cooked, should be reduced to a few spoonfuls, and skimmed, and added to the maitre d’hotel sauce. Larks in Cases, —rut some Salmi Sauce made thick, into small china cases; cut up tho remains of boned larks which have been roasted for dinner, add an equal amount of Liver Forcemeat, and fill up the cases within an inch of the top. Then put a little more sauce over, dredge somo fried crumbs over, and heat in a tin of hot water, on the hot plate or in the oven. Garnish tho dish with watercress salad and put a sprig of cross on tho top of each ease. Larks, Salmi of.—Roast or bake as many larks as may bo required: they may bo boned and stuffed, or cooked plainly. When done, put them while hot in enough Salmi Sauce to cover them, then lot them heat through; pile them in a dish, and garnish with croutons, put on with small skewers. Put somo Potato Chits or RmpoxaENTREES, MADE DISnES, aNd HelEV^S. 221 round tho larks, with a few Braised Olives, if obtainable. Pheasant Cutlets a la Ross- vear.—Required : the breasts from two pheasants, farce as below, foie gras, stock, wine, &c. Cost, variable. Take the breasts neatly from the birds, cut them in thin slices, then remove the meat from any other part of one of the birds, and pound it witli half an ounce of butter; half a pound of meat will be required; add to it some foie gras, three or four ounces, and pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with the yolk of one raw egg. Blend the mixture, and put a small quantity over a slice of pheasant, then lay on another slice; proceed thus, alternately, until all are used up. AY rap this up in a sheet of buttered paper, and braise in stock No. 5, until nearly done. Then remove the paper, and glaze the meat; finish the cooking in the oven, then cut into slices. Have some croutons ready, the shape of the slices, but a little larger; put a cutlet on each, and place a little square of foie gras heated in the bain-marie in the centre. Dish en couronne on a border of game farce, and garnish with button mushrooms, cooked and glazed. Fill up the centre of the border with braised celery or any vegetable pre- ferred. Pour a thin brown sauce, flavoured with sherry, round the border. For the border, see Gau- lishes. Pheasant Cutlets with Po- tato Puree.—Butter somo small cutlet moulds, and garnish with small fancy shapes of truffle, and the whites of hard-boiled eggs : these may be in rings, stars, little diamonds, &c. Put half a pound of minced raw pheasant in a mortar, with an ounce of butter, anl ponnd it; rub through a sieve, and pound again with two ounces of panada, a couple of chopped button mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of mushroom powder. Then add the yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, and half an ounce of glaze, dissolved in a tablespoonful of Madeira. Fill the moulds with this mixture; it must be pressed in firmly, and smoothed on the top. Poach them like quenelles, for half an hour, or until firm; then turn them out on a cloth. Dish them upright round a high croustade, and pour gravy or brown sauce round the base. Cover the croustade with a pureo of potatoes. Fur this, birds which are too old for roasting will do; in such a case, use the breast and best of the meat; tho rest will do for soup. Game of any sort can be similarly used. Quails & la Rossvear.—Re- quired : four birds, forcemeat as below, gravy, &c. Cost, about 53., or more. The quails must bo boned, then laid flat on a board, and sprinkled with chopped truffle; a small piece of Liver Forcemeat eor Game should then be laid on each, and the birds rolled up evenly, and tied each in a thin cloth. Make a stock of the bones, with herbs to flavour, and strain off; this should bo done early, then put tho birds side by side in a stewpan, with tho stock to half cover them, and simmer gently until nearly done, then take them up and leave until cool. Cut them through lengthwise, then smooth the flat side, and sprinkle with browned crumbs, first egging the entire surface; finish the cooking in a buttered tin in tho oven, basting with a little of the stock they were cooked in. Prepare a sauce by thickening the stock with brown roux, and adding a glass of Madeira, and some truffle essence; it should be as thick as good cream. When tho birds are done, dish them on a border of potato or rice, with a high croustade in the middle for them to rest against, and on the top put a pureo of vege- tables ; green haricots uro suitable; then pour tho sauce round the base. In using tho vegetable pureo tho crouslado must be quito hidden : this is best done by moans of a bag and pipo a leaf pipe has a good effect. Quails in Cases. —Bono and divide some quails; lay each half in an oval china caso, with a little BrowlUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 222 Sauce (No. 2) at the bottom. Spread the halves of quail with a small quan- tity of Mushroom Purf.e, or Force- meat, and pour a teaspoonful of sherry over each; cover with a paper buttered on the outside, set the cases in a tin, with boiling water three-fourths up, and cook for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Then whip tiro whites of two eggs to a froth, with a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper; put a little from a bag with a rose pipe on each case, and put back in the oven (out of the tin of water) for six to eight minutes more. The tops should be firm and nicely coloured, and before baking a sprinkling of fried crumbs will improve thorn, or hot browned crumbs can be put on after they are done. Garnish wifi watercress salad, or.small cress with lettuce shredded and plainly dressed. Quenelles a la Chasser- esse.—Required : throe ounces each of cooked game and beef sausage moat; an ounce of butter, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, also that of a raw egg, a little seasoning of mixed spice and powdered herbs, salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of port or claret, and a morsel of red currant jelly. Mince the game, pound it with the butter, sieve it, and add the beaten egg and sausage meat, with the rest of the ingredients ; pound again, then flour the fingers, before shaping the mass into little balls the size of a nut. Iliji them into a little white of egg beaten up, and drop them into boiling stock, then simmer them for ton minutes, and serve them in Potage A LA ChASSERESSE. Those may also bo served as an entree, in which case garnish some quenelle moulds with strips of truffle, and little fancy shapes of cooked tongue, the red part only; fill them with the mixture, and poach as di- rected for Quenelles of Game, Truf- fled. Prepare a Macaroni or Rice Border; dish tho quenelles on it, glazo them, and fill the centre of tho border with any nice puree of vegetables, mushrooms, tomatoes, &c., for which recipes will bo found under Dressed Vegetables. Quenelles, Beef.—Make in tho same way as game quenelles, using beef instead of game. Quenelles of Game, Truf- fled. [See Game Quenelles.)— Pre- pare tho mixture, and add to half a pound, a small truffle, chopped ; a tea- spoonful of sherry, with a morsel of glaze dissolved in it; a pinch of finely chopped shalot, and a dust of cay- enne. Prepare some quenelle moulds by buttering them, and garnishing with strips of truffle, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Fill them, and poach in game stock for twenty minutes, then turn out and drain, and use as an entree or for garnishing purposes. Quenelles of Hare.—Make as other game quenelles, but add to four ounces of tho meat, some aromatic or herbaceous mixture (given in Season- ings), as much as will half cover a sixpence; put in the same quantity of mushroom powder, and season with essence of mace or nutmeg. Instead of mushroom powder, a few drops of mushroom ketchup can be used, then rather more panada must be used, or the liquid will thin the mixture. Quenelles of Rabbit. [Sec Veai, Quenelles.)—Substitute rabbit for veai, then proceed in same way. Rabbit a la Juliette.—Re- quired : a young rabbit, six ounces of cooked ham, three eggs, a gill of thick bechamel, a pint of Sauce a la Juliette, some Rich Veal Force- meat, and seasoning. Cost, 3s., ormore. Bone the rabbit, and use the best parts only, the rest can go into the stock-pot. Pass it through a mincing machine with part of the ham, add the yolks of the eggs and the bechamel, and mix well. Butter a plain border mould, put some ham cut in strips at tho bottom, and over that a layer of force- meat. Fill up with the rabbit mixture after adding the whites of tho eggsENTREES, MADE DISHES, and Eeleves. 223 whipped stiffly. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for an hour. First put a thick sheet of buttered paper at the bottom of tho stewpan, ami seo that the boiling water only reaches two-thirds up the mould. It must only simmer tho whole time. When done, turn out, and fill the centre with a Macedoine of Vegetables, mixed with sauce. Pour the rest of the sauce round; good white sauce will do for mixing with the vegetables. Note.—The ham for garnishing the mould must be quite free from fat. Rabbit a la Iiymcburcb.— Wash and joint a nice young rabbit; blanch it, then put it in a saucepan with the white part of a small onion, and the middle of a head of celery, a few white peppercorns, and a morsel of mace. Cover with white stock (see No. 9), bring to the boil (the stock should be warm when added) and skim; then cook until tender. Divide the legs, put them with the shoulders, and tho back cut into pieces convenient for- serving, on a hot dish, and coat them with Supreme Sauce, making the sur- face smooth. Have ready some rich Cei.ert Puree ; mix this with a little hot cream, and put all round the dish, making a sort of border. Cut some ham and tongue in thin rounds ; they must be cooked, and heated in some of the stock the rabbit was cooked in; place these alternately, overlapping, on the top of the celery, mask them with a little more sauce, and spiinklo them with sieved egg yolk, chopped parsley, and the liver of the rabbit, rubbed throngh a sieve, using the ' three alternately. Cost, 3s., or more. Note.—All the inferior parts of the rabbit should be used, with the stock, for rabbit soup, or for a plain stew. Rabbit, Supreme of. (fire the recipe for Rabbit A la Lymciiuuch.) —After cooking as there detailed, take the flesh from the legs, shoulders, and back, in thin, even slices; cut sorno tongue and ban ham into similar i slices (tho two equal to half tho rabbit); heat the whole in enough thick Supreme or BEchamel Sauce to coat them well, then turn on a hot dish, and garnish as follows. Prepare some olive shapes of carrot, turnip, and cucumber; cook them carefully, and place them in little heaps, the three kinds together, about the dish, leaving- a space between. Cook some little slices of loan bam, coat them with Tomato Butter, roll them up, and lay them between tho vegetables. Rub the liver of tho rabbit through a sieve (or use any other poultry liver), and sprinkle it over the top. Servo as hot as possible. Use some Veal Quenelles in place of the ham, if pre- ferred. They should he moulded, and the moulds garnished with strips of ham, tongue, and truffle. Ragout a la Toulouse.—See Financiers Ragolt. Sweetbread, Calf’s, a la Eordelaise.—Prepare tho sweet- bread as directed under Sweetbreads, Made Itislics ; cook in a saute pan in a little butter and white wine ; a buttered paper should be laid on the top. After three-quarters of an hour, dur- ing which it must he often basted, take it up and glaze it; then Jet it brown before the fire. Servo with Bordelaise Sauce, and garnish with French plums in strips, olives, and lemon in slices. During the cooking, the pan may he set in a cool oven or on the range. Lemon juice and white stock can be used instead of wine. Sweetbreads a la Finan- ciere. (Sec recipe for Sweetbreads a la Houghton.)—Cook tho sweet- breads as therein detailed ; glaze anil crisp them nicely, then dish them on a border of white farce. The ragout must he heated in good sauce (sec Financier!! RaooOt), and placed about the dish just as described in the recipo abovo referred to, and served very hot. Tho sauco for tho ragout should ho thick and well flavoured, good sherry or Madeira being used for tho purpose.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOoK< 224 Brown stock, No. 16 or 17, should bo used for making it. Sweetbreads a la Houghton. —Required : four sweetbreads, a mac- aroni border, cocks’ combs, truffles, croustade, &c. Cost, varies with season. Blanch, parboil, and press the sweet- breads, lard them round tho edge with bacon and truffles, and braise them on a bed of vegetables, with a little stock until tender. Butter a plain border mould, decorate it with the macaroni {see Garnishes), and fill it with a white farce, veal or chicken, made as for quenelles, but coloured pink. The croustade should fit tho centre of tho border, but be made higher. When the sweetbreads are done, glaze tho larded part, and crisp them by moans of a salamander. In the centro of tho sweetbreads put some thick supremo sauce, and sprinkle it with chopped truffles and lobster coral. Dish theso on the border, lotting them lean against tho croustade. Take an equal number of cocks’ combs, and slices of tongue and truffle, cut to the same shape; heat them and make a ring, using them alternately round the top of tho border, and stick a whole truffle on the top, using an ornamental skewer to fasten it. Up between the sweetbreads fasten .some more of the same garnish used on the border. The tongue should be brushed over with thin glaze, and the cocks’ combs masked with sauce, like the sweetbreads. Pour some thin supreme sauce round the base, and servo hot. Sweetbreads A la Verecroft. —Required : a couple of sweetbreads, and a puree made as under. Chop a tablespoonful of button mushrooms, a fourth the measure of truffles, and a saltspoonful of parsley ; add a suspicion of shalot, and cook in an ounce of hot butter for a few minutes, stirring all the time; then take tho pan from the fire, and. mix in an equal bulk of pounded chicken, veal, or rabbit—the lirst is preferable. This must bo cooked, and during tho pounding it should be moistened with white sauco or thick cream. Set aside untii cooi. Braise tho sweetbreads and put by, pressing them in tho usual way. When cold, slice them and spread with tho mixture; place them again in their original shape, and egg, crumb, and fry them. l)ish them on a croustade, garnish with button mushrooms, cooked in stock and glazed, and sliced truffles, and send Italian or Madeira Sauce to table. If for an entree, pour it round the sweetbreads. Cost, varies with season. Sweetbread, with Asparagus and Quenelles.—After blanch- ing, let the Bweetbread cool, then put it in veal stock, or that from rabbit or chicken bones, and give it an hour’s cooking with frequent basting. Then slice, and dish in a row, and mask with supreme sauce. Make some Veal Quenelles and colour them pink ; they should be very small; use these for garnish, together with strips of truffle. Round the dish put a border of Asparagus Puree, with tho points sticking out half an inch or more above the surface; or cut some little rounds of truffle, and lay a quenelle on each; these have a pretty effect. Artichoke bottoms, masked with white sauce, can be used instead of asparagus; they should overlap all round the dish.- Lambs’ sweetbreads may bo used as in the foregoing recipes, but a larger pro- portion will bo required. Sweetbread, with. Sauce Herbace. — Required : a call’s sweetbread, half a pint of Sauce Herrac£, a dozen chicken quenelles, some cream, macaroni, tongue, and truffles. Cost, varies with season. Boil a sweetbread for ten minutes in white stock, after blanching it; put it in cold water for half an hour, cut it in dice and put it in the sauce; leave it just at simmering point for an hour. Prepare tho garnish by cut- ting tho red part of a cooked tonguo in fancy shapes: leaves or cocks’ combs; and the truffles in round slices ; heat them both in clear stock ; dry and glaze the tonguo. Boil the225 feNTREES, MADE DISHES, AND RELEV^S. macaroni in white stock, season it, and mix in a gill of cream, heated. Turn the sweetbread on a hot dish, put the macaroni round it, and use the tongue and truffle to divide the two : they should be set up in a ring alternately. Cut up any trim- mings of the garnish into Julienne Shreds, and sprinkle them over the macaroni. Put the quenelles on the top of the sweetbread, with pea shapes of truffles here and there to divide them. Sweetbread Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Required: sweet- breads, ham or tongue, white sauce and tomato sauce as below, and a garnish of truffles, cocks’ combs, crous- tades, fee. Cost, on an average, from 5s. 6d. to 7s., but variable. About seven or nine cutlets will make a nice dish. Prepare them by blanching, then par- boil or braise them until nearly done, and press them until cold. They must then be sliced and cut into the proper shape by means of a cutlet cutter, and fned, the same as whole sweetbreads. For details of the above-named pro- cesses, see the recipes above, and Calf’s Sweetbreads in Made Dishes. From the trimmings of the sweetbreads, and an equal amount of cooked ham or tongue, make a mince, and mix it with a little thick white sauce, Bechamel, or any other, and colour it a pale pink. Cut some rounds of truffle, and ham or tongue, and heat them in a little clear ste -k. Prepare a sauce by mixing a gill and a half of tomato pulp with the same measure of white sauce, Bechamel for choice ; season, and add a tablespoonful of sherry ; colour with carmine. A ring of fried bread, and a high croustade are also wanted (see Garnishes). Place the ring on the dish, with the high croustade (smaller) inside it, anrange the rounds of truffle and tongue on the ring, rest the cutlets against the croustade, over which should be poured the mince, so that it shows between the cutlets. Garnish the top with whole truffles, tongue, and cocks’ combs, and pour the sauce « in tho dish. (See Coloured Platb, No. 2.) Tomato Easkets a la Har- leig'b.—Required: nine ripe tomatoes, smooth and equal in size; the same number of croutons, a little larger, cut with a round, crimped cutter; some puree and garnish as under. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Scoop out the inside of the tomatoes, leaving an even outer case; they should be first cut in halves. Put part of the pulp through a sieve, and mix with it an equal bulk of minced, cooked ham and chicken, seasoned with thyme and parsley, salt and pepper, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar; add a raw egg, yolk only, and a small quantity of good bechamel and cream, and heat the mixture in the bain- marie. Steam the tomato cases until heated through, then dish them on the croutons, and fill with the mince. Beat up the whites of two eggs with a good pinch of coralline pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; force it through a rose pipe on the top, and brown with a salamander. Form handles with semi-cooked macaroni, just soft enough to bend, and cover them -with a little of the mixture used for the filling ; it must be sieved, and mixed with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, then forced from a bag, with a small leaf or rose pipe. (See Garnishes.) Put a little parsley or chervil here and there on the handles, and serve hot. Tomato Baskets a la Peri- gneux.—Required : the remains of a cooked pheasant, some cream, season- ing and Perigueux Sauce, tomatoes, and croutons as below. Cost, from 2s. to 3s. Prepare the baskets as for Tomato Baskets a la IIarleioh, and make a minco by passing the cooked meat of the pheasant through a mincer; supposing enough to fill a quartor pint measure, add tho samo measure of sauce as above, and half as much thick cream. After steaming tho tomatoes, brush them outside with glaze, and dip them into fried bread226 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, crumbs, prepared just as if to serve with game; then fill with the mince, and sprinkle with more crumbs. Make handles with semi-cooked macaroni, glazed, and rolled in crumbs. On the top of the mince put a star-shaped slice of truffle, heated in sherry, and on that place half a cherry (see Cherry Sai.ai>). Dish the tomatoes on crimped crofitons, glazed, and ornamented round the edges with chopped truffles and cherries. These are very delicious. Grouse may be used in the same way, so may partridges and other birds; and a little foie gras, or cooked puree of liver of game, or poultry, can be added with advantage. Tomatoes a la Burdette.— Required: a dozen small, ripe to- matoes, some truffled sausage-meat (see Sausages, Truffled) ; seasoning and sauce as below. Cost, about 2s. Gd. Make a small hole in the stalk end of the tomatoes, scoop out the interior with a small spoon, then mix half a pound of sausage meat, with a dessert- spoonful of sherry, and a sauco-ladleful of good White Sauce. Fill the toma- toes, using a bag with a small, plain pipe. Smooth the tops very neatly, put on the pieces that were taken out, and lay them in a buttered saute pan. Pour round them a little white stock to cover, and lay a buttered paper on the top; cook gently for twenty minutes or thereabouts (mind they do not break), then take them up and wipe them. When quite cool, dip the tomatoes in beaten egg, and roll them in bread crumbs mixed with a little pepper and mushroom powder; put them in a frying basket, and fry in plenty of hot fat until crisp and lightly browned. Have ready some round china ramakin cases (see that they arc hot), and put in each a little sauce, made from the pulp of the tomatoes by boiling it down, sieving and mix- ing with an equal measure of brown sauce. Lay a tomato in each case, and on the top of each put a star-shaped crofiton the size of a shilling; glaze them,' and sprinkle with a pinch of chopped truffle. Veal ala Marengo. — Required: some breast of veal, stock, fat, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 9d., for a dish of two pounds. Cut the meat in pieces ready for serving, flour, and fry in hot fat until brown; then cover with stock, and add a slice of lean ham in dice, a minced onion, herbs and peppercorns; , simmer until nearly done, then put in some small mushrooms with seasoning, and thicken with brown roux. Boil up, remove the fat, put in a squeeze of lemon, then dish, and garnish with crofitons and fifed eggs. This is an imitation of Chicken a la Marengo. If the tendonous part of the breast is used, it will take a long time to cook. Allow half a pint of gravy for each pound of meat. Another way.-—Fry the meat in oil (which is more correct, though less liked), and use some stewed mush- rooms, rubbed through a sieve, instead of whole ones. Veal a la Pandore.—Required r five cutlets from the loin, foie gras, sauce, and vegetables. Cost, about 2s. Gd. The cutlets must be trimmed, and an incision made in the thick part for a little foie gras to be inserted. They must then be sewn up and braised on a bed of vegetables with a little stock, and a buttered paper over. When done, glaze them, remove the threads, and dish in a row with croutons the same shape, but smaller, in between. Put a little pile of foie gras on each crofiton, and put any nice vegetable puree mixed with Velout£ or Bechamel Sauce round the dish. Veal Cutlets a la Grain- ger.—Required : six ounces of lean, raw veal, throe ounces of raw ham, the same weight of chicken (breast or other white part), four and a half ounces of panada, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of two, half a gill of thick cream, and the samo ofEntrees, made DisliEs, aj}d ReLeveS. 227 White Mushroom Puree, some sauce and vegetables as below. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Butter some cutlet moulds, a dozen or fourteen, and after preparing the foregoing (except the sauce and vege- tables) exactly as if for quenelles, fill them with the mixture, which should be seasoned with salt, pepper, a dust of cayenne, and grated nutmeg, or essence of nutmeg or mace. Smooth the surface of each with a warm, wet palette knife, then put the moulds in a stew-pan with boiling water to three- fourths of their depth; put a buttered paper over, and the lid. on the pan, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour, or until firm; then turn them out, and dish them round a Potato Border, slightly overlapping. Fill the centre with any nice suitable vegetable, as peas, asparagus points, or artichoke bottoms; if the latter, cut them in dice, pour a little rich sauce over, veloute, supreme, or bechamel, and pour some more round the base, about half a pint. A border of white meat, macaroni or rice, may be used instead of potato if liked. Veal Cutlets en Fapil- lotes.—-Take as many veal cutlets as may be required, and butter the same number of pieces of paper. Required, for each cutlet, an ounce of chopped mushroom, half an ounce of calf’s liver, scraped to a pulp, the same weight of fat bacon, salt and pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of bread crumbs, and the same of brown sauce. Cost, about 6d. or 7d. each. Mix well, and spread tho cutlets with it, put them in the papers, and fold them over (tee recipes for Mullet en Papillotes). Lay them singlyonameat stand set in a baking tin, and cook them in a moderate oven for half an hour, more or less, according to thickness. A little veal stock should be put in the baking tin. When done, •send the cutlets to table on a hot dish, .slit the papers, garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon, and add tho .gravy in the tin to a little thick brown sauce; season it, and add a table- spoonful of sherry, and pour it over tho meat. Mark tho papers with a hot skewer before serving, to imitate marks made by grilling. Another way.—Spread the cutlets on both sides with a thin layer of beef sausage meat, with a chopped truffle added to each half pound. Cook them in a Dutch oven for about forty minutes, and send a rich sauce to table. Brown Mushroom Sauce, Tomato, Brown Sauce, plain or with truffles, and many other kinds aro suitable. During the cooking, brush tho papers with warm butter a few times. Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes and Cheese.—Required : seven cut- lets, three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut into rounds about two and a half inches in diameter, tomatoes, sauco, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. 6d. Fry the cutlets in the usual way, and dish them each on a slice of tomato, previously grilled (see Toma- toes). Take a gill each of rich white sauce and tomato puree, made by pulp- ing the ripe fruit through a sieve ; mix these, colour a little, and season slightly with salt and pepper; squeeze in the juice of a quarter of a lemon, off the fire, and pour round the cutlets. Fill up the middle of the dish with plainly boiled rice or macaroni, mixed with a little hot cream and grated Parmesan. A slice from the fillet may always be employed for such dishes as the foregoing with success (it should be skinned); but when not obtainable, any lean part, from which rounds of sufficient size can bo cut, may bo used instead. Bat out carefully, as they should be smooth. Another way.—Lay the cutlets in a buttered saute pan, squeeze tho juice of a lemon over them, and pour over each a teaspoonful of veal stock; Cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven ; finish off as above directed. This is tho moro digestible method. If preferred, mix the macaroni with tomato sauco instead of cream.228 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Veal Escalopes with Celery- Sauce.—Required: cooked veal, celery sauce, and puree, seasoning and garnish as below. Cost, tor a dish of nine, about 2s. 6d. to 3s. (See Mutton Escalopes a la Soubise.) Proceed as therein directed, using cooked veal instead of mutton, and celery sauce for spread- ing the slices. If any stuffing re- mains in the veal, mince a little, and mix with the sauce; the dish will then be more savoury; or, failing stuffing, add a pinch of sweet herbs and a morsel of cooked bacon, minced. Cook and dish ns before directed, and put in the centre a Pur£e of Celery. Instead of the white of egg, pom- over it enough thick bechamel to mask it; make it smooth, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs ; add a few bits of butter, and bx-own in the oven, or with a salamander-, or turn it in front of a clear fix-e for a minute. Any other vegetable can be used for the centre, a similar sauce being used for the filling; the dish taking its name fiom the sauce used. Veal Escalopeswith Spinach Puree.—Required : cold veal and ham, spinach, eggs, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. for a dish of nine. Cut the meat as above, and put a thin slice of cooked ham between two slices of meat. Then fry as before directed. Dish in a ring on a large round of fried bread, an inch thick. Fill up with a spinach puree, pressed into a round mould, and turned out (see Spinach, Moulded) ; garnish with eggs (see Eoos for Spinach), and pour any suitable sauce round the outside of the bread; tomato sauce is very good ; egg sauce is also suitable. Veal Quenelles.—Required: six ounces of raw veal, four ounces of panada, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one, an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful each of cream and thick sauce, supreme, veloute, or bechamel, a pinch of salt, white pepper, and ground mace, or a drop or two of essence of mace or nutmeg. Cost, about Is. Lay the meat on a board, and scrape it (it must be full weight after scraping), put the pulp thus obtained in a mortar, with the butter (pound it and the panada separately, then to- gether) ; add the seasoning, eggs, and sauce ; rub through a sieve, and then stir in the cream, and use as required. Other white meats are used in the same way. When it is necessai-y to colour the mixture pink, the carmine should be put with the cieam. The whole must then be blended well, to avoid streakiness. Vol an Vent au Financiere. —Prepare the case by tho recipe given in Pastry ; then when the interior has been l-emoved, put in a Financiere Ragout. Finish off In- putting the cover on the vol au vent; or, if a very elaborate dish is desired, garnish with cooked prawns or crayfish, sliced truffles, and cocks' combs, forming a pattern according to taste. Cost, variable. Vol au Vent A la Toulouse.— Substitute tho Ragout a i.a Toulouse for that in the preceding recipe. In either case, tako care that the sauce is thick, and that the bottom of the case is perfect; should an accident happen, brush the inside with a little glaze, and let it dry before filling. Should-the sauce leak, tho appearance of tho dish will bo spoiled. A vol-au-vent of this class will serve a largo number of people; it is so rich that a very small portion only is required. For other vol au vents, see Pastry.MADE DISnES AND RELEVES. 229 MADE DISHES AND RELEYfiS. As previously stated, some of the following made dishes can ho served as entrees, but" a brief consideration of the various kinds will show the necessity of selecting them with discretion. Take, say, a curry, of any sort. One high authority assures us that, it ought never to be served as an entree; another says, it may appear as a second entree, if a delicate one has gone before; a third asserts that a curry, or any dish of a similarly high flavour, is a fitting climax to a meal arranged to suit the guests, irrespective of custom; citing, as an illustration, a fish dinner, or a bachelors’ supper. But as various circumstances must decide the general arrangement of a dinner (the same dishes answering at times for different parts of the service), it is well not to draw too fast a line with respect to curries, or any other special dishes. One rule is absolute : all of a highly seasoned kind are unsuitable to precede any lightly flavoured one, for a pronouuced flavour will assert itself all through a meal. Small savouries, served in the second course, are not here referred to. The majority of dishes in this chapter are of all-round utility, including breakfast and luncheon dishes, and many that in a compara- tively plain dinner—consisting of sonp or fish, with a pudding to finish —would serve as the embodiment of an entree and a releve; of which class, steaks and cutlets, and good stews are typical dishes. The same may be said of many dishes given under Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery, for they aro “ made dishes ” to a certain extent, and may replace a number of those from fresh meat given herein. The same remark applies to the dishes of game and poultry, in the form of hashes, minces, &c.; these will be found under their respective headings. A word now on Releves, or removes as they are often called. These dishes at one time were set upon the table when the soup tureen was taken away, which explains the name. The word is now understood to mean the solid or substantial part of the repast; indeed, in the average middle class home, it may be said to form the dinner, with occasionally soup or fish to precede it, and a sweet dish to complete the meal. But the word is very elastic when applied to a public feast, or a private dinner of a high class: under releves one may find joints of all sorts, fowls, ducks, geese, turkeys, indeed an unlimited supply of poultry, as well as hams, tongues, meat pies and puddings: then, often game of some sort is the only thing which figures under roasts. Again, it is possible to meet with joints only under releves, the poultry being put under roasts, particularly if game is not included in the meal. _ f11 the present instance we havo separated the releves from plain joints, simply to facilitate reference. Those who want a joint pure and simple, or a plain meat dish of any kind, will find it under Joints, and in tlie chapter devoted to game and poultry will be found all the dishes of the latter class suitable for removes. Hero wo give all the braised meats, joints ns well as smaller dishes, for braising is not sufficiently understood in ordinary English kitchens to justify the jiisorljoit of ft230 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. braised joint with those familiarly known as bakes, boils, and roasts : and by braising, we mean also stews of the best kinds, i.e., when braising is imitated so far as the resources of the kitchen will permit. To such dishes, as detailed in this work, we ask especial attention; as an effort has been made to render the directions so plain that anyone of average intelligence may carry them out to the letter, and present at table a dish, which shall not only be a very welcome change from the “ eternal roast and boiled ” beyond which thousands of housekeepers never rise, but, all things considered, more economical also; for besides the reduction of fuel, the trouble entailed (after a start is made) is but little compared with that of basting; while as to nutriment—well, to put it very mildly, it may be safely said that fifty per cent, of the baked, boiled, or roasted joints "contain less than one which is scien- tifically braised or stewed; although this is not always the fault of the cook. Respecting cold joints, we are glad to see that the custom of serving at dinner parties a daintily dressed piece of meat, with all the adjuncts cold (in many instances iced), is gaining ground. Among many other advantages, the charm of novelty counts for something, and all things considered, we should say that the fashion is likely to be a lasting one. We may be pardoned for pointing out that such dishes as we are now discussing are joints cooked for the purpose and left until cold, not joints cut while hot, and re-served in the cold state. First, the garnish has to be considered; then the character of the meal as a whole must decide what adjuncts are necessary: for very good dinners, one or other of the iced sauces, and a salad, or an iced puree of vegetables should be chosen; the garnishing media given under Cold Entrees will suggest variety in this direction. Beef a l’Alceste.— Required: four pounds of brisket of beef, sauce and garnish as below. Cost, about 6s. The beef should be salted for two or three days; then boiled in plain stock to cover it, the skin and bones being first removed; it must then be pressed until cold. A nice square piece is re- quired, to make the dish a success. Place the meat on a flat silver dish, and chop some aspic jelly, both pink and yel'ow; place a row of each, half an inch wide, alternately down the meat, dividing them by means of a little grated horse-radish. Place round the meat some blocks of the same jolly, with a tuft of horse-radish, grated finely, between them. On another dish, put a border of iced Sauce a l’Alceste ; fill up with a salad mayon- naise, and sprinkle a little grated horse- radish on the surface. If the party is large, and it is likely that all the meat will be eaten, the quantity of sauce given in the recipe may bo doubled; but two small moulds will be more satisfactory than one large one. Another way.—Garnish the beef with horse-radish butter in between the rows of chopped jelly; and in garnishing the dish, cut some small tomatoes in two, and ornament the cut side with the same butter; use them in place of grated licrse-radish. For the adjuncts, sec Garnishes. Beef a la Mode (German).—Re- quired : a piece of moat from the round, bacon, vegetables, herbs, sea- soning, &c., as below. Cost, from 4s. 6d. to 5s. Beat the meat, cut some bacon as for larding, and roll it in a mixture of pepper, ground cloves, nutmeg, andMADE DISHES AND KELEVES. 231 salt, equal parts. Lard the meat all over, lay it in a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, a bay leaf, a large crust of bread, a grated carrot, and a chopped onion. Pour over the meat a glass of claret, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and some common bone stock to half cover it. Cover the pan, and cook for three hours or there- abouts, for a piece weighing six pounds. Drain, put the meat on a dish before the fire, pass the gravy, with the bread, through a coarse strainer, boil, and skim, and season nicely, then pour it round the meat. Garnish with spinach balls, or tiny sprouts, or any vegetable preferred. Remember to baste the meat with the gravy while cooking, and to turn it when half done. Bsef and Hare, Minced and. Rolled,—Required : a pound of beef steak, a pound of hare, two ounces of suet, two ounces of bacon, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a gill of bread crumbs, an egg, salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of tomato pulp, some stock and sauce as below, and some lemon juice. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. Mince the beef and hare (the best parts of the latter should be used), pass them through a mincing machine with the suet and bacon. Beat up the yolk of the egg with the tomato pulp, add to the rest with the crumbs and seasoning, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix well, and then work in a little brown sauce, about half a gill. Beat up the white of the egg, brush the roll in every part, cover with crumbs, and brown it in hot fat; it must be turned often. Then put it in a clean pun, with stock No. 4 to half its depth, cover, and stew gently, turning every quarter of an hour, for two and a half hours. Then put it on a bed of spinach on a hot dish, add some brown sauce to the gravy, and a bit of tomato jelly or currant jelly; boil up, and season, and pour round the meat. A puree of onions, chestnuts, or | mushrooms may be used in place of the spinach if preferred. In shaping the roll, flour the board and the hands a little; it should look like a large sausage when cooked. Beef Boudins a la Boston.— Required: twelve ounces of lean steak, two oimces of calf’s kidney, two ounces of butter, a gill of stock No. 4, two ounces of fine Horn', two eggs, salt, pepper, and herbs, and a small mush- room. Cost, about Is. 6d. Cut the meat up, pass it three times through a mincer, then sieve it, and pound it with half the butter. Make panada with the rest of the butter, flour, and stock; add to the meat with seasoning, chopped mushroom, and eggs, and mix thoroughly. Butter some boudin moulds (see page 209) ; fill them with the mixture, and poach for twenty minutes or more according to size. Turn out and serve with Sauce a la Boston, and send Potato Chips or Ribbons to table with them. For the method of poaching these see Quenelles, page 153. Beef Boudins a la Burette. (See Bukette Sauce.)—Add enough to give zest to a tureen of brown sauce or gravy, and servo instead of the sauce in the preceding recipe. Beef Braised, a la Jardin- iere.— Required: nine to twelve pounds of the rump of beef, wine, stock, and vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. per pound, including wine, &c. Bono the meat, tie it in shape, put it in ordinary bone stock, warm, and boil it slowly for two hours and a half. The liquor will make excellent soup; only just enough to cover the meat is wanted. Then drain and lay the beef in a braising pan with a bod of mixed vegetables under it. Put in some herbs and mixed spice—a few cloves, blada of maco, a dozen allspice berries, and peppercorns—half a pint of stock No. 17, and half a bottle of marsala. Cook gently, with a buttorod paper over, until done ; about half anUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 232 hour per pound, including tho first hoiling, should be allowed. Frequent hasting with more stock from time to time, will he required. Then pour off the gravy, put fresh cinders in the lid to brown the meat well, then dish it and pour a little gravy round, after thickening, seasoning, and boiling it up ; serve the rest in a tureen. Round the meat, put some cooked vegetables, olive-shaped carrots and turnips, button onions, sprouts, or sprigs of cauliflower, and celery in short lengths; all, or as many as convenient. Then pour half a pint of Brown Sauce No. 2 on tho top of the meat. Braised meat makes a very excellent hash, or may bo re-heated in any other way. Beef Curry, Madras. —Re- quired : a pound and a half of steak, two onions, an apple, an ounce of curry paste, half an ounce of curry powder, tho juice of a lemon or lime, a salt- spoonful each of browning, mushroom ketchup, and anchovy essence, a soupgon of cayenne and grated nutmeg, half a pint of stock No. 4, and a gill of bi'own sauce. Cost, about 2s. 4d. Cut the onions in thin rings, fry them golden brown in hot butter ; put them by, then cut the moat up, roll it in the curry powder and other spice, add it and the chopped apple to the butter, and fry it well; then put in the paste and stock, with half tho lemon juice. Bring to the boil and stir in the onions; simmer for two hours, then pass the sauce, &c., through a sieve. Put it back in the pan with tho moat, brown sauce, rest of the lemon juice, and salt to taste ; when hot, serve with plain rice, or one of tho special rice dishes for curries given in a later chapter. During the cooking replenish the stock as required. For “ gravy curry ” use more stock; the quantity may be doubled. The above recipe will bo found excellent, and may be followed for game. A mixture of meat and game makes a good curry, but in either case, orange juice maybe used instead of lemon or lime with advantage. Tho thjng fq guard against is an overdose of anchovy, ketchup, and browning. In minute quantities they are an im- provement. Beef, Fillet of, a la Coutts.— Required : the fillet, i.c. tho inside of a sirloin of beef, half a pint of clear stock, as No. 6 or 7, a gill of Madeira, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. Gd. per pound, inclusive. Raise the fillet clean from the joint; take off tho skin, and lard it on both sides, first trimming neatly into an oval, and binding with tape. Put at the bottom of a stewpan (very little larger than tho meat) a few slices of bacon, the trimmings from the meat, a couple of ounces of celery, the same of carrot, outside only, a bay leaf, and a bunch of thyme and parsley; place tho fillet on, put in half the stock, cover, and reduce almost to glaze; then put in the rest of the stock and tho wine. Cook the meat very gently in a moderate oven, basting a few times, over a buttered paper, which should fit the pan. When half done, add a dozen peppercorns, and a scalded onion stuck with a clove. When tender (it will take from thirty minutes per pound) put it on a dish, strain the gravy, and cool it quickly so as to take off the fat; then boil it until reduced to a gill, pom1 this over the meat, and hold a salamander over for a second, if the lardoons arc not brown and crisp. Pour round a rich sauce, and serve hot. (See Hot Sauces.) This is a very rich and excellent dish. Beef, Fillet of, as Hare.—Re- quired : two pounds of fillet of beef (tho under cut from tho sirloin), bacon, and gravy, &c., as given for Jugged Hare. Cost, about 3s. Trim the meat into a nice compact shapo and lard it with bacon on the upper side; then stew it in a pan to just hold it with tho gravy and added ingredients. When tender, crisp up the meat in a brisk oven, while the gravy is skimmed and thickened. Dish tho meat with the gravy round, and some fqrcemeat balls [see Forcemeats)233 MADE DISHES AND RELEV^S. and crisped bacon for garnish ; or little sausages may be used. Serve tomato salad, or tomato or currant jolly, with this; or the Savoury Tomato Pre- serve given iu a later chapter. Beef, Fillet of, Savoury.— Take the fillet from the loin, cut it into slices, and sprinkle each with chopped onions, parsley, thyme, and all the other seasonings used for Veal Forcemeat, Rich. The onions should be plentiful. Then lay the slices to- gether, and tie the meat in its original shape. Roast before an open fire, basting well; or it may bo cooked in a Dutch oven. When done, glaze it, and serve any nice sauce with it; Piquant, Brown Onion, Chutney, and many others are suitable. When the meat is about half done, it should be seasoned with pepper, powdered herbs, and grated nutmeg and cloves. Cost, about Is. per pound inclusive. Bsef Fillets with Eggs. — Required : some fillet steaks, cut into sina'l rounds, the same number of eggs, some horse-radish butter, and Rich Potato Cakes. Cost, about 3s. Gd. for a dish of nine. Broil the steaks, after brushing them with oil or butter; they must bo from well-hung meat. Have the cakes ready fried, and Laid on a hot dish; put a steak on each, then poach the eggs, and trim neatly, leaving a circle of white half an inch wide only round tho yolk. Lay an egg on each piece of meat. Chop up the rest of the white into pea-sized pieces, and add to a gill of brown sauce. Put a little of this round each egg; on the top of the eggs put a small pat of horse-radish butter. This is a very good dish for any meal. Any other butter may be used in the same way. Beef Fillet with Olives.— Required : a fillet of beef, a bunch of herbs, a carrot, some bacon, an onion, and a few stalks of celery, stock, wine, seasoning, kc., and a dozen olives. Cost, about Is.-Id. per pound, inclusive. Put the sliced vegetables in a buttered stewpan, with a slice or two of bacon; lard tho meat, add it, and pour over a gill of stock No. 6, or any similar; let it become absorbed, then add another gill, with the same quantity of light wine. Cover with a little more bacon, and cook in a moderate oven, basting a time or two. When nearly done, stone and blanch a dozen olives; add them with a little more stock, and a bit of glaze and brown roux, and finish the cooking. Glaze and crisp the meat, and pour the olives and gravy round it. Servo with a Puree of Sorrel, Endive, or Spinach. Beef cooked as above may be served a la jardiniere or a la finan- ciere, just according to the garnish. An ox-tail, blanched and cooked in tho same way, is excellent. It should bo browned in a little hot fat, the thick end first divided; then well drained bofore cooking. The bacon may bo omitted, a sheet of buttered paper taking its place. Beef, French. Stew of.—Re- quired : a thick steak from tho rump, about three pounds, a pint of rich stock, as No. 0 or 7, half a pint of white wine, a bay leaf, shalot, head of garlic, salt and peppercorns, some roux and burnt onions. Cost, about 4s. - Beat the meat well; fry it brown in hot fat, then put it in a stewpan with tho other ingredients, except salt and onion colouring ; these should he added towards the end, with enough roux to thicken very lightly. Cover, and cook gently for an hour and a half to two hours; longer still if tho meat is fresh. Then finish off, and serve with tho gravy over and send a plain salad to table with it. Any left over will bo found delicious if served cold in a salad, or converted into potted meat. Another uai/.—Boat tho meat as above, and lard it; put it in tho stew- pan with the same stock to three- fourths of its depth; omit the wine, and put in a grated carrot and a grated apple, with a bay leaf, and a tablespoon- ful each of tarragon and cucumber iiUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 234 vinegar. Cook slowly, add salt to taste, put the meat in the oven to crisp the lardoons, and pass the gravy, &c., through a sieve ; add a few drops of Parisian browning essence, and a bit of glaze; boil up, and pour round the meat. Send a plain watercress salad to table with it, or, if preferred, a lettuce or endive salad. (See Salads.) A morsel of onion or shalot will improve the dish. Beef Fricandeau.—Required : three pounds from the rump, or the fillet from the sirloin, vegetables, wine, &c., as below. Cost, about 4 s. 6d. Lard the meat on the upper side; rub together a pinch each of ground cloves, mace, and black popper; sprinkle over the meat, then lay it in a stewpan on a bed of vegetables—chopped celery and shalots, with a littlo carrot and turnip; add a good bunch of herbs, a glass of white wine, and a gill of stock, such as No. 6 or 7. Cover, and cook until the liquid is absorbed ; then put in a pint of stock, and simmer in a slow oven for two hours. Strain and skim the gravy ; add salt to taste, crisp (ho meat in a hot oven, and serve with a Puree or Sorrel, Spinach, or other vegetable round it. Another way.—Fry the meat and vegetables in the stow’pan, with an ounce of butter or minced bacon ; when nicely browned, put in the wane and stock, and proceed as above. The moat will then only require crisping with a salamander before dishing. Beef Olives, Piquant.—Re- quired : a dozen slices of beef, thin, cut into shape (see Beef Olives, Plain), a pint of Sauce Piquant (either of the recipes maybe followed), a dozen little slices of bacon, the same number of French plums or good prunes, a gill of claret, seasoning, and glaze; garnish as below'. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Thin, streaky bacon is needed for this ; trim off the rind, and cut the pieces three inches long. Brown tho beef olives in a little hot fat, then lay them in the sauce and simmer them until tender (about an hour and a half) ; meanwhile, rinse the plums, stew them in the claret, and when done stone them. Then add the claret to the first pan with the meat. Put a plum on each hit of bacon, roll up, and fasten with thread or a little skew'er; then fry them brown or cook them before the fire ; the bacon should ho cut very thinly, and looks nicer if dredged with raspings. When done, put the olives and bacon alternately on a hot dish, first glazing them. Thicken tho sauce by reducing it, and pour it in the centre. Outside the olives, put some small glazed croutons, leaf shape or oval (the latter are better); they should overlap to form a border : or, instead of tbeso, some Rice Croquettes in cork shapes, fried and glazed, can he used. The bacon is preferably cut from a piece that has been boiled; it then takes a very short time to cook. Beef, Rolled (a German recipe). —Take some flat ribs of beef, bone and skin it, and hat it out flat. Required: (supposing four pounds of meat) a large onion, a clove of garlic, ground spices (a teaspoonful or less), salt and pepper to taste, and six ounces of fat bacon in small dice. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Mix these ingredients, spread them over, and roll the meat up tightly; bind it up with tape, and brown it in hot fat (bacon fat answers very well). Then drain it, and put in some stock (about a pint), with a gill of light wine and half a gill of vinegar; boil for two to three hours. Thicken the gravy and add salt to taste; then pour it round the beef. This is very good when cold, but a still better dish is to he had from meat cooked as above, then pressed and glazed. Brisket (or thin flank) can be used in place of ribs, or any part which will roll W'clI. Beef, Rolled, with Ancho- vies.—Required : beef as in the above recipe, forcemeat and sauce as below, bread, bacon, &c. Cost, about 3s. Mix a tablespoonful of anchovy235 MADE DISHES AND RELEVl!)S. essence with two or three ounces of minced, bacon, and a teacupful of bread crumbs; season, and spread it over the meat; tie it up, and brown as above, then cook it in some plain stock until tender. Take it up, brush over with glaze, and serve Anchovy Sauce for Steak with it. Beef, Spiced.—Required : five or six pounds of beef, the thin flank, vegetables, wine, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. The meat must be salted for about ten or twelve days, and before salting, skin and bone should be removed. (See recipes under Joints.) When ready to cook, wash it and roll it up; tie with tape, and wrap it in a thin cloth, buttered. Then put it in a large stewpan, or a boiling pot that will just hold it, with an ounce or two of butter or dripping, a thick layer of vegetables sliced, over and under, and some herbs, a dozen peppercorns and allspice berries, and a clove or two. Cover for twenty minutes, then put enough ordinary stock to come half its depth, and half a pint of claret. Boil for about four hours, if six pounds of meat, then press it, and when cold take the cloth off, and glaze it, or coat it with aspic. Garnish with salad, and serve as a breakfast dish, or for a cold collation of any kind. In the latter case, garnish with aspic. The liquor from the meat will (if diluted with stock or water) make good soup. The vegetables may be sieved, and served in it. For plain dishes of this kind, see the chapter devoted to Joints and Plain Dishes. Bsef Steak a la Bridgport. —Required : a couple of tender loin steaks, an inch and a half thick, sauce as below, and some mushroom force- meat, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 3s. After cutting the meat into nice even ronnds as large as possible, pass the trimmings through a fine mincing machine. Supposing half a teacupful of this, add an equal bulk of forcemeat (tee recipe for Mushroom Forcemeat, Rich), and blend well; season with salt, cayenne, and black pepper. Brush each side of the steaks with salad oil, first adding to it a pinch of pepper, a few drops of soy, and a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup ; leave for an hour, then again brush over; at least half a gill of oil isTequired in all. Have ready a stew- pan, but little larger and deeper than the meat; put the two steaks together like a sandwich, with the forcemeat between, and tie them together to facilitate turning. Put in the stewpan a gill of brown stock, made by stewing any odds and ends of lean beef in water without vegetables; add a few peppercorns and a clove, and then lay in the meat; cover with an oiled paper, and set in a moderate oven. Baste and turn in half an hour, then baste and turn again, adding a little more stock as required. Then dish and glaze the meat, and keep it hot; add enough stock to make half a pint, thicken it with brown roux to the consistency of cream, then put in a teacupful of Brown Mushroom Sauce. Boil and skim, season, but do not destroy the mushroom flavour; pour round the meat, and serve with Potato Chips. This is recommended to all who appre- ciate the flavour of the mushroom, and we would advise a trial of steaks from the thick part of a leg of mutton, cooked in precisely the same way. Beefsteak a la Perigueux.— Required : a thick rump steak, of two pounds or more, some potatoes pre- pared as below, and half a pint of Perigueux Sauce. Cost, about 3s., exclusive of sauce. The steak should bo at least two inches thick ; after trimming it into a nice shape, make a slit, and cut round to form a bag in the centre, but leave tho external opening as small as possible. Inside, put half a gill of tho sauce, und a Bpoonful of breadcrumbs, mixod with a good sized trullle, chopped, and soaked in wine to cover for an hour. Then sow up tho steak, brush it with salad oil on both sides, and broilUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 236 or grill for half an hour, turning every two or three minutes. When done, lay it on a hot dish, and put the pota- toes round ; serve the sauce separately. A pound of potatoes should he cut into olives or marble shapes, then dried in a floured cloth. Put them in hot fat to cover, and as soon as a little browned take the pan from the fire and leave for five minutes, while they cook ; then put it hack over the fire for a couple of minutes or so. Drain well, and sprinkle a little salt and cayenne over them. Brush the steak with warm glaze, and put a row of chopped truffle, seasoned in the same way, down the centre. Beef Steak, The Mandar- ins’.—Required: a thick beefsteak, sauce, &c., as below, vegetables and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 3s. Take a pound and a half of meat, cut it into a nice oval shape, pass the trimmings through a mincing machine; add a fried onion, and some ham chopped small, with a spoonful or two of brown sauce, a beaten egg, and some bread crumbs, enough to bind the whole, just as for croquettes. Then form the mass into little balls, not larger than a cherry, and egg and crumb them ; then cook them in the saute pan. Grill tho steak, put tho little balls round it, with Potato Balls or Cutlets in between ; or put a ring of the cutlets round tho dish. Pour a gill and a half of Mandarins’ Sauce over tho steak, and serve as hot as possible. Beef Steak with Marrow.— Required: a thick steak, from the rump, of a pound and a half; marrow, seasoning, and sauce as under. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Lay the meat in a mixture of oil, pepper, and grated horse-radish for an hour, then grill it. Put a tablespoon- ful of chopped beef marrow on a plate, with an equal bulk of chopped shalot, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a spoonful of French mustard. Place it on the hot plate, or in a slow oven, and let it melt while tho meat is cook- ing. Spread a little on the dish, put the meat on, and spread the rest over it. Round the dish put some fried potatoes, with little heaps of grated horse-radish, or send Horse-Radish Sauce (hot or cold) to table in a boat. The steak may bo broiled if more convenient, and basted with the marinade. Another way.—Instead of horse- radish sauce, put a pat of Horse-Radish Butter on the steak after dishing it. The shalots are to be removed after the marrow is cooked. Beef Steak with Oysters.— Required : two pounds of thick steak, lean, a score of oysters, seasoning and stock. Cost, about 3s. Gd. Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a stewpan, brown tho steak in it, turn- ing every minute, then pour tho fat off; add stock No. 4 to half tho depth of the meat, and the strained oyster liquor; season as directed for oyster sauce. Turn and basto tho meat now and then ; when tender, thicken with brown roux and boil up; then lay in the oysters, draw from the tire, and in less than a minute serve the meat, &c., all together on a hot dish. Send potatoes separately to table. Time to stew, about an hour and a quarter; longer if freshly killed meat. Beef Steak with Oysters ancl Anchovies.—Required: steak, an- chovy butter, seasoning, stock, and oyster Fauce. Cost, exclusive of sauce, about 3s. for a steak of two pounds. Cut a thick rump steak into a nice shape; brush with saladoil andcayenne ; cut it half through, with the exception of tho edge, and make the external open- ing as small as possible. Put a good pat of anchovy butter inside, sew up the edge, then lard the meat on the upper surface, first dipping the bacon used into cayenne, and brush over with a little anchovy essence. Braise in stock to half its depth ; a plain stock minus vegetables is required; basto often, and in an hour and a half, supposing two or two and a half pounds, it should be tender. Crisp up on a hot dish,237 Made dishes AnC i^leveS. reduce the gravy, add it to a pint of good Oyster Sauce, and pour round the meat, which should he glazed as usual. Baef S teak with Vegetables. —Required : a steak an inch and a half thick, and a pound in weight, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is 9d., exclusive of sauce. Cut the steak as above; fry a chopped mushroom with a shalot and some parsley, season well, put it in- side the meat, and sew it up, then grill or broil for twenty to thirty minutes, brushing it first with oil, seasoned with cayenne, grated nutmeg, and powdered herbs. Prepare the vegetables as for Brcxoise Soup, fry some potatoes also, in any desired shapes, and dish the meat, with the vegetables in little heaps round it. Serve with it Brown Celery, Onion or Mushroom Sauce ; brown caper or tomato is also suitable. Mutton can be used in the same way. Beef with Chestnuts.— Re- quired : two pounds of lean beef, the same weight of chestnuts, prepared as under, seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. 8d., exclusive of gravy. The meat should he in a thick slice, from any tender part, then broiled or baked. Bake and skin the chestnuts ; put them on to boil, with stock No. 6 or 7, to cover them ; lay a buttered paper over, and simmer until the stock is absorbed. Then add a pinch each of salt, sugar, white pepper, cayenne, and coriander seed ; or in place of the latter, a slight flavouring of anisette; rub through a sieve, stir in an ounce of butter, and colour with carmine to a pale pink. Serve round the meat, and send brown gravy, made from stock as above, to table in a tureen. Chestnuts as above may be served with roast beef. Besf with Ox Foot, Stewed. —Required : a pound of steak, one ox foot (or two calf’s feet), vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Od. to Is. 9d. Slice and fry a largo onion ; put it in a stew jar with the meat in square pieces, and the foot parboiled and jointed ; add a grated carrot, and half a pint of minced celery; then pour in enough plain stock, No. 1 or 2, to cover the meat, with a little flavoured vinegar, and a tablespoonful of brown vinegar; add herbs, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Cover, and stew for three hours, then pass the vegetables through a sieve, add the gravy; boil up and thicken a little. Then servo with a garnish of any vegetable separ- ately prepared. Brain Cakes (for garnishing).— Take a sheep’s or calf’s brains, and wash and blanch them (see directions in next recipe). Then boil them in a little white stock until done, and beat them up. Add a hard-boiled egg—yolk only, rubbed through a sieve—and a tablespoonful of cream, or any nice white sauce, and season to taste with salt and pepper, and a little mace or nutmeg; lemon rind, in small proportion, is an improve- ment, and fine herbs are 'sometimes liked. Some fine bread crumbs, or a little bread panada (see Force- meats), must be put in to give con- sistence, but the mixture should not he stiff. When cool, form into little balls, then flatten them into cakes about the size of a florin; flour them, then coat with egg and bread crumbs, and fry a delicate brown. For Brain Balls, follow the above recipe, but shape the mixture like marbles. Calf’s Brains.—Blanch tho brains, however they are to be cooked. This is done as follows :— Wash them in salt and water, re- newing it until they are free from any trace of discoloration. But them in cold water to soak awhile, then skin them, wrap in a bit of muslin, and cover with cold water; add a pinch of salt, a bit of onion, a few peppercorns (white) and a toaspoonful of white vinegar or lemon juice; bring this just to tho boil, remove tho brains, and if not needed at once, put them in cold water until wanted. ThoyUNIVERSAL COOKERV BOOK. 238 take but a short time to cook after the blanching. Calf’s Brains a la Fran- £aise.—Required: a dozen button onions and mushrooms, veal stock and ■wine, seasoning, and two sets of brains. Cost, variable. Prepare the brains as above. Fry the onions, then add a gill each of veal stock and light wine, with a bunch of herbs, the brains, and a little salt and pepper; cook for ten minutes, put in the mushrooms, give ten minutes more, then strain, and add a little thickening to the sauce; skim and boil it up; serve altogether on a hot dish. Calf’s Brains, Fried.—These may be plain or quite elaborate, ac- cording to the sauce, garnish, &c. For a plain dish, coat them with warm butter, then with egg and crumbs, and fry after blanching. They should be first sliced. For a better dish, slice the brains and coat them with Rich Frying Batter, then servo with any rich, hot sauce. See also Cold Sauces ; some are very suitable for serving with brains; and for an entree the dish may bo garnished with any of the iced sauces, taking its name from the sauce. Black butter, as for skate, is a favourite sauce with many people; by its aid, the dish, somewhat insipid in itself, is made very piquant. Sheep’s or lamb’s brains can be served in the same way. Cost, variable. Calf’s Brains with Eggs.— Required : a pint of Brain Sauce, six or seven eggs, some black butter, and croAtons. Cost, variable. Make a crouton for each egg, and one large one in addition, for the centre of the dish, on which the brain sauce is to be poured. Fry the eggs, and place them on separate croutons round the sauce. Pour a little Brack Butter over the eggs, and garnish with fried parsley; a little bunch between the eggs. To make the sauce, boil and chop the brains, one or two sets. and add them to thick white sauce, Parsley, or Economical Bechamel, just as preferred. Another way.—Mix the brains with a pint of egg sauce, then put some croutons round, and place on each a small brain cake (see Brain Cakes). For a superior dish, fry some small veal sausages, and put a row all round the dish. Forcemeat balls can bo used similarly. Calf’s Eai’s a la Juliette.— Boil the ears by the recipes given for heads and feet; when nearly done, take them up, and put them in Sauce A la Juliette to finish the cooking; gar- nish the dish with quenelles, forcemeat balls, mushrooms, truffles, or anything usually added to rich dishes of veal. If more convenient, cook the ears until quite done, then just pour the sauce over. Plenty of time must be given; quite three hours. Cost, vari- able. Calf’s Ears, Stuffed.—Use any of the forcemeats given in a later chapter, or ordinary sausage meat will serve the purpose. Cook the cars until almost tender, then fill them with the forcemeat; tie them up, and cook again until done. They should be laid in a stewpan with a little stock, and put in the oven with a buttered paper over. The paper may be taken off last thing for the forcemeat to crisp a little; or some crumbs may be sprinkled over, unless the forcemeat is of a delicate kind—white mushroom, for instance—then -white sauce may be poured over it. For a brown dish, the ears may be glazed, and Bordelaise, or other nice sauce, served round them. Cost, variable. A puree of calf’s liver can be used for stuffing the ears, and a rich brown sauce served with them; so cooked they can be sent to table as an entree. There are many other ways of pre- paring them. The dish takes its name from the forcemeat and the sauce. Calf s Feet a la Parmesan. —Required : a couple of feet, some239 MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. grated cheese, macaroni, bread crumbs and batter, parsley and seasoning. Cost, about Is. 6d. to 2s. Boil the feet until the bones can be removed, then press them flat until cold, and cut them into nice even pieces, to look like little cutlets. Mix together a teaspoonful each of white pepper, salt, grated cheese, and pow- dered sweet herbs; add the crumbs required, and mix well. Then brush the cutlets over with beaten egg, coat with the crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Have ready some very thin pancakes, made in the ordinary way (see Pancakes) ; out of these stamp some rounds, and lay one cutlet on each. Dish in a ring, and garnish with fried parsley; serve with a little Cheese Sauce. These may be served for breakfast without sauce. Note.—The pancakes should bo fried and stamped out ready, and kept hot while the cutlets are fried. The latter take but a few seconds after the fat is ready. The small Cheese Frit- ters given in a later chapter may be used for dishing the cutlets if pre- ferred ; or Cheese Aigrettes may be dished up with them, the combination being a very agreeable one. Calf’s Head a la Bordelaise. —Required : a pound of semi-cooked head, cut in neat pieces, a few slices of cooked tongue, a pint of Bordelaise Sauce, garnish, &e., as under. Cost, variable, according to circumstances. After cutting the meat up, put it between two plates with a little stock to moisten; set over a saucepan of boiling water, then pnt it in the sauce to finish cooking; turn on a hot dish, and fill the centre with cooked peas, asparagus, or any other vegetable; carrots and turnips, either a puree, or in fancy shapes, may be used if liked. Round the dish put some crofttons, brain cakes, and fried eggs, or hard- boiled eggs, in quarters or slices. Feet and ears may lie similarly treated, and those of the pig, sheep, or lamb can be used up in just the same manner; or the head of a lamb or sheep is very delicious cooked whole, and served with the sauce, and an accompaniment of fried carrots and turnips; or the same vegetables braised, or mushrooms or onions may be used. To all meats of an insipid kind this sauce is excellent. Calf’s Head a la Tortue.— This dish, which is elaborate and apparently difficult, will not be found to be beyond the power of anyone ■who can please the eye as well as the palate, and, after having flavoured a dish judiciously, can arrange it ele- gantly. Procure a large calf’s head, properly prepared. Remove the brains, which must be boiled and made into cakes, and fried in a little hot butter just before they are wanted. Boil the head in the usual way (sec Calf’s Head, Boiled) till it is suffi- ciently tender to allow the bones to be taken away without altering the shape of the head. Do not take away the tongue, as it will help to preserve the form. Take a large stewpan, melt three ounces of butter in it, and when it is brown, mix smoothly with it two tablespoonfuls of flour. Add just enough of the liquor in which the head was boiled to cover the meat, but before putting the head in, season the sauce with salt, cayenoe, nutmeg, four large tomatoes sieved, and two glasses of sherry. Let it boil up, then put in the calf’s head, and when this is hot it is ready to serve. Now comes the arrangement of the dish, and for this no clear directions can be given; it must be left to the taste of the cook, and depend greatly on the materials at command. The brain cakes, of course, must be used, and they may be heated in the sauce, as also may button mushrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, olives, sliced truffles, cocks’-combs, or fancy shaped slices of tongue. On and about the head may bo placedfriod eggs, cray- fish, prawns, and gherkins, the latter cut into balls and soaked in cold water a little beforo they are wanted. The cars may be scored and curled, andUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 240 little stars or diamonds of bread fried in butter may be dotted about the dish. The truffles, prawns, &c., may he fastened on with silver skewers. It is generally found better to boil and bone this dish the day before it is wanted. Cost, very variable, depend- ing on the garnish. Another way.—The remains of a cold calf’s head inay be cut into small squares, heated in a little good gravy, and ornamented in the same way as the last dish. Make the sauce rather thick, put the meat in the middle of the dish, and garnish as prettily as possible with forcemeat balls, tlie yolks of hard-boiled eggs, and the whites cut into rings, gherkins, olives, and stewed mushrooms. Calf’s Head and Tongue, Curried.—Required : calf’s head, cream, sauce, and sundries, as below. Cost, about 3s. Gd. to 4s. if half a head. Parboil the head, or part of one will make a good sized dish; it will ho richer i f not skinned ; when it has boiled for an hour and a half take it up, and press till cold. Use some of the liquor to malco the Curry Sauce ; allow a pint of sauce and a gill of cream to two pounds of moat. Boil the sauce, cut the head into neat squares, also the tongue, after taking off the skin ; add them, and allow an hour or an hour and a half, then finish off just as directed in the recipe for Veal, Curried. Calf’s Head and Tongue, Curried, Bry. — Required : the whole of a tongue, and the best part of a head; by which wo mean the thick, fleshy portion, stock, curry paste, cocoanut, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 4 s. to 5s. when veal is plentiful. Boil the tongue unfil nearly done, then skin and slice it, let it get cool, and fry it brown in a little hot butter; in the same fat, fry a large onion, and an apple cut in thin slices; stir in a gill of brown stock, mixed with a table- spoonful of curry paste, and a dessert- spoonful of grated cocoanut; boil until all can be sieved. Then put back in [ the pan with the juice of half a lemon and salt to taste; put in the tongue and the pieces of head (the latter should be boiled until nearly done) ; stir the whole well together; the sauce should only just mask the meat, then leave covered until quite tender. Dissolve a bit of glaze the size of a nut, and half a teaspoonful of extract of meat in a little stock; add to the rest, stir well for a minute or two, then serve as previously directed. Calf’s Head, Collared. (This is to bo served cold.)—Required: calf’s head, stuffing, ham, and tongue, stock, seasoning, and garnish, as below. Cost, 4s. Gd. or more, without garnish. Bono the half of a large head; wash and blanch it, then dry it, and lay it on the table flat; some of the thick flesh should be cut off, and mixed in with the stuffing- to make it level. First, put over a layer of good veal forcemeat, slicis of ham and tongue (the latter should be cooked), then hard-boiled eggs, sliced and seasoned with herbs, salt, pepper, lemon rind, and nutmeg; roll this tightly, bind with tape, then tie in a cloth ; put it in a pan with stock to cover (this should be boiling) and cook for three hours. Then put to press under weights, remove the cloth and tape when cold, and garnish as for Veal in Jelly. The brains can be used separately and the bones will make stock. Calf’s Head, Collared. (This is to bo served hot.)—Required: calf’s head, sauce, and sundries as below. Cost, variable, according to adjuncts. The forcemeat for this may be ordi- nary veal, or good mushroom or other kind is equally suitable. The brains should be mixed with it, and the tonguo parboiled, used with ham as above. It should bo finished off as in the above recipe, and served with any nice sauce; Tomato, Parsley, Eoo, Mushroom, Chervil, &e., are suitable. If a large dish is wanted, uso the whole of tho head, but make two rolls. If pre- ferred, tho tongue can be boiledMade dishes and releves. 24 J separately, and dished with brain sauce round. Calf’s Head, Stuffed,—Re- quired : a calf s head, forcemeat, hum, stock, sherry, cream, glaze, vegetables, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, very variable. Bone a calf s head, take out the brains and tongue (keep these apart), then fill the head with Rich Veai. Forcemeat, mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence and a chopped truffle; put in four ounces of lean ham, in strips an inch long and half an inch wide. Place the head in its original shape, sow it together, and tie in a buttered cloth. Then put it in veal stock, with the bones, and the tongue, boil steadily, removing any scum; add sdfne vege- tables and herbs when the liquid boils. In about three hours the head will be done: meanwhile, the tongue should have been taken up, skinned, and laid in stock and sherry just to cover; and the brains boiled, and mixed with some of the stock from the head, and a little cream and seasoning. Before dishing the head tuk: a pint of the stock, put with it some glaze and wine, boil up, and season. Glaze the head, lay it in the centre of a dish; cut the tongue in four, after heating it, spread each portion with the brain sauce, just brought to the boil, and sprinkle with chopped trnllle and lobster coral; lay one piece at each end and side of the dish, anl fill up the vacant spaces with Forcemeat Balls. Fasten some truffle in slices or fancy shapes, on th : top of the head with plated skewers; glazed mushrooms will also answer the purpose; and send the gravy to table in a boat. Note.—The hones should he put into the stock while cold, and the head Laid in just before it boils. If time permits, give the hones a few hours’ bailing first; or after dishing the head, cook them for some hours mare, an.l make soup of the stock. This dish is very good when cold. It will also make a delicious hash, fritters, &c; or can he mixed with sweetbreads for vol-au-vents and other dishes. Calf s Heart a la Bordelaise. —Required: a calf's heart, a pint of Bordelaise Sauce, bacon, croutons, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s., ex- clusive of sauce. After preparing the heart in the usual way, cook it in stock until done ; then divido it into neat slices. Dissolvo a morsel of glaze in a spoonful of claret, brush the slices over, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley; dish them quickly on a very hot dish (heart soon becomes cold) ; pour the sauce over, and garnish with croutons, oval shaped, with a little roll of glazed bacon laid on each. Put a pure 3 of vegetables in the centre of the dish. Heart in liiaunvAN Sauce is equally good. Use sauce of that name instead of the foregoing. t Calf’s Heart with Caper Sauce.—-Cook the heart as above di- rected ; pour some Brown Caper Sauce over, and put a puree of any wliito vegetable in the centre; pour some thick Wkite Sauce over and sprinkle with chopped capers, and fennel or parsley. Calf’s Heart with Capsicum Sauce.—Pour Capsicum Sauce over the heart; put a pile of olive shape! potatoes, fried, in the centre; brush the surface of them with warm butter, and put chopped parsley and capsicum over, or use a few whole chillies. Calf’s Liver, Larded and Baked.—Required : a calf’s liver, bacon for larding, herbs, Ac., as below. Cost, about Is. a pound, inclusive. Lard the liver on tho upper side, then lay it on a soup plato or dish, and pour over a tablespoonful of French vinegar, half a gill of olivo oil, and a tablespoonful of claret; add a ten- spoonful each of chopped parsley, onion, and celery; a good pinch of cayenne and ground nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of white pepper. BasteUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 242 the liver with this, and leave it for a couple of hours, hasting often. Then wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and hake it for an hour and a half to two hours, according to size. Baste often with the marinade and a little veal stock, first mixed in the haking-tin. When done, take the paper off, dish the liver, and brush it with warm glaze; let the surface crisp nicely, and serve a Puree of vegetables, as Sorrel, Endive, Lettuce, or Spinach round. Have ready some brown sauce, mix with it the gravy from tho tin, boil and skim, then add lemon juice or French vinegar to give piquancy, and send it separately to table. Calf's Liver, Quenelles of.— Required : four ounces of calf’s liver, two ounces of veal kidney suet; pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of chopped onion fried in butter, a saltspoonful of powdered mixed herbs, including bay- leaf, four ounces of bread crumbs, an ounce of butter, and two eggs, with the yolk of a third. Cost, about 1 s. First chop tho liver and suet separ- ately, then pound them together; add the butter, creamed, the crumbs, &c., and the .eggs, gradually ; pound until smooth, then cook in moulds, or drop from a tablespoon into stock, and cook in the usual way, but allow rather longer, that tho suet may bo done. Before cooking the whole, try a small portion; should the mixture be too stiff, add a little more butter; or if not stiff enough, increase the crumbs ; eggs vary in size, and bread differs so much that only the approximate pro- portions are given. These may be served small as a garnish, or, if of good size, as a separate dish ; with a rich sauce, they may go in ns an entree. With a sauce or gravy such as would be served with game, they are a good substitute for game. Cavaliers’ Broil. — Required: cooked meat, seasoning, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. per pound. Half roast a small, lean shoulder of lamb or mutton, then put it by until cold. Score it down to the bone, season with cayenno and grated lemon peel, and a little French mustard. Brush over with beaten egg, cover with crumbs, and brush over with olive oil. Put it in a Dutch oven, and finish tho cooking at a nice clear fire, and as soon as done, serve on a hot dish, with Cavaliers’ Sauce over or round it. A cold shoulder may be similarly treated. Another way.—Take some cooked breast of mutton, which has been boned, score and season the meat, and dip it in oil or warm butter; finish the cooking as above, then cut up and dish the meat in a pile; pour the sauce over, and put fried carrots, tur- nips, and small onions round. Cavalj-ers’ Stew.—Required : a pint of Cavaliers’ Sauce, half a pint of brown stock No. 1, a pound each of calf’s liver and beef skirt, vegetables and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Cut the liver in slices, after washing and drying; skin and slice the skirt; put them in a stewpan with the stock, warm, a bay leaf, some herbs, sliced onion, carrot, and celery, a tablespoon- ful of each, and a tablespoonful of tomato vinegar; cover and stew for an hour and a half, then season to taste with salt. During the cooking, a little stock must be put in from time to time. Take up the meat, add the pint of sauce to the stock, &c., and pass all through a sieve, including tho vegetables; then re-heat, and pour over the meat. A border of nicely cooked macaroni or rice should bo put round, and garnished with a little mixed pickles, and hard-boiled eggs in slices. A stew made of mutton, with half the weight in sheep’s kidneys is equally appetising. A few slices of cooked bacon, cut in dice, will improve the dish. Chateaubriand Steak.—This is considered the acme of steaks. It should be cut from the fillet, quite two inches thick, and put into a marinade of the purest olive oil, with a little pepper, for a few hours. Some cooksMADE DISHES AND RELEVES. 243 add a few drops of French vinegar. The steak is best grilled; to ensure perfection, a double gridiron, well oiled, is recommended, and some authorities insist upon the envelopment of the steak in two thin slices of beef (any lean part; it can be put in the stock pot afterwards), to protect the exterior, as it should not be allowed to harden. Without this precaution, great care is needed to cook thoroughly, without hardening, owing to the thickness of the meat. After eighteen to twenty minutes’ grilling, lay the meat before the fire on a hot dish, and finish off in either of the following ways: (1) Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter under the steak, and a little gravy round; this can he made by mixing a gill of stock Xo. 1G with the same measure of brown sauce Xo. 2. (2) Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter in a gill of brown sauce, first heated with a glass of white wine and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. (3) Mix chopped parsley and lemon juice, a teaspoonful of each, with a gill and a half of stock Xo. 16, thickened with a small quantity of roux and glaze, to the consistency of good cream. Serve fried potatoes, chips or ribbons with the steak. Cost, variable. Collops, Savoury (See Coi.lops under Joints.)—After browning the meat, cover it with stock such as Xo. 5, season with pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley; a small onion may be minced and fried with the meat at starting; add a little mushroom ketchup, and simmer for an hour or more. Thicken with browned flour or roux, add salt to taste, and garnish with croutons. If a glass of port or claret be added near the end of the cooking, and a good seasoning of sweet herbs be put in at first, the dish is almost equal to game, and may be served as a plain entree. Curries. -Curried dishes of all sorts are usually much favoured by those who have resided in India. It is almost impossible to serve them in perfection in England, owing to the lack of various commodities in the fresh state ; but they might be much more palatable than they are, if the seasoning were adapted to the meat and to the taste—so far as possible—of those who have to eat it. The same flavouring is not suitable alike for chicken, fish, or calf’s head; indeed, unless the various ingredients are compounded to suit the viands of which the dish is composed, the curry will not be as successful as it might be. Good stock, suitable seasoning, and a generous supply of rice are essential. The meat, or whatever is used, should be so cut as not to need further division; by this method it becomes thoroughly impregnated with the flavour of the curi'y, and almost needless to add, raw meat makes a better curry than cold meat. Acid in some form is generally necessai-y; apples, cucumbers, goose- berries, rhubarb, and tomatoes are the most readily obtainable; but tamarinds, and many other ingredients of a like nature are used abroad. It is abso- lutely necessary that all the ingredients used for the sauce be sieved and put back in the pan to thicken the sauce. Xobody who objects to the use of the sieve should attempt to make a curry, the proper amalgamation of the materials used being of primary im- portance. Much difference of opinion exists as to the order and manner of adding the curry paste or powder. Some contend that it should be put in and fried with the meat, while many others think that by this method it does not yield its flavour so well as when mixed with some liquid before it is put in—the hot fat sealing up the flavours, the liquid enabling them to be drawn out. In our recipes will be found details of both methods, and under Seasonings we give the method of making curry powder; but wc are of opinion that the best preparations of bought powders and pastes are more satis- factory than home-made ones, and they may bo purchased cither pungent or mild to suit various classes of dishes. It is, however, always easy to giveUniversal cookery boor. 244 additional zest to a curry by means of chutney and hot sauces; hot pickles arc also used for the same purpose. A good deal has been -written of late as to the necessity of buying every ingredient separately, and blending them in varying proportions, instead of keeping some prepared powder or paste at hand ; but we agree with a very high authority that this is out of the question in most houses; besides, nothing less than a course of training could teach cooks to choose, grind, and compound curry stuffs satisfactorily. Further hints, together with recipes, will be found under Game and Poultuy, Rice, Vegetables, Fish, and Cold Meat Cookeky. Curry, Anglo-Indian, Kich. —Required : a pound and a half of raw or semi-roasted mutton, half a pint of stock from mutton bones, a gill of cocoanut infusion, a largo onion, a pinch of chopped garlic, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, a tablespoonful of pungent curry powder, the same measure of lemon juice, and a little salt and butter. Cost, about Is. 8d. Melt the butter, about two ounces ; when it smokes, put in the sliced onion, brown well, then stir in the powder, mixed with stock to a paste : add the meat, cook until it is coated with the curry, pour in the stock and cocoanut infusion, and cook until the meat is tender ; put in the salt and lemon juice a short time before serving. While the meat is cooking, before the stock is added, it must be stirred to prevent burning. To make the cocoa- nut infusion, grate the nut finely, sufficient to fill a quarter pint measure, cover with boiling water, put a ^plate over, and in twenty minutes strain for use. Or the nut may be put in cold water or stock, and gently simmered for ten minutes. Venison may be curried in the same way ; a clove or two will improve it. it will be noted that no acid is given in the above. Tomato conserve or chut- ney, apple chutney, or Oriental pickles should bo handed round with the dish. Cutlets a la Maintencn.-— Cutlets were, it is said, first served in this way under the direction of Madame de Maintenon, to tempt the failing appetite of Louis XIV. According to the original recipe they should bo dressed en papillotc. Required : meat and seasoning as below. Cut up and trim the cutlets, removing as much as possible of the fat. Next chop up linedy a little raw ham, some button mushrooms, a small piece of shalot, parsley, and a pinch of thyme; add pepper and salt. Take the cutlets and brown them quickly each side in a very hot frying-pan slightly greased, and wrap them up two or three at a time in some well-oiled paper with a dessert- spoonful of this chopped mixture and about the same quantity of butter. Cook them in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, and serve them, of course, in the paper, which is to keep in and impregnate the cutlets with the flavour. These cutlets are supposed, properly speaking, to be cooked on a grill over a charcoal fire. French cooks mark the paper with a hot iron to resemble the marking of the gridiron. Cost, about Is. per pound. Cutlets a la Parmesan.—Re- quired : meat, cheese, egg, and season- ing as below. The best end of the neck should bo used, either of mutton or lamb; after trimming nicely, the cutlets should first be floured, then dipped in the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a pinch of migno- nette pepper, then into grated Parmesan cheese, and next into plain biscuit crumbs. After an hour a second coating should be given of cheese and crumbs only. They are then ready to fry by im- mersion in boiling fat; or they may bo cooked in a saute pan, with a little hot butter; or they can be grilled or broiled. In c ither way they are excel- lent. Cost, about Is. per pound. Another way.—Prepare the cutlets by peppering and brushing them over with oil or butter. Then grill them, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan over, and add a tablespoonful of the sameMADE DISHES AMD RELEVlilS. 245 cheese to a gill of brown sauce, -which should ho poured round tho cutlets after they arc dished. After dredging the cutlets with the cheese hold a salamander over, or put them before a sharp fire. Cutlets,Indian.—Required: two pounds of lean meat, any kind, or half poultry, a tablespoonful of tam- arind chutney, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much black pepper, and a dessertspoonful of curry paste; the yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful each of boiled rice and chopped bacon, and some gravy. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. (id. Pass the meat through a mincer, add the other ingredients, mix well, and shape the mass into cutlets, using a palette knife. Fry them in hot fat for a minute, then put them by to get cold. Lay them flat in a frying-pan, and pour some gravy round to half their depth. Cook for an hour, turning a time or two, then serve with clear pickles as garnish, and a Rice Pilau (see Rice). A good gravy such as would be used for hashes answers for the above, but it should be more highly seasoned. Only just enough to moisten the meat is needed. Cutlets, Mutton Loin.—Some of the fat should be taken away, as loin of mutton usually contains more than will be eaten at table. The spectacle of pieces of fat on each plate, together with half-picked bones, is only too familiar. A far nicer dish, and ono which is also much more economical, may be made by proceeding as follows: Remove the flap and some fat, then take out the fillet, i.e. the under-cut of the meat: divide the meat into slices of half an inch or a trifle more in thickness. The flap will make an Irish stew, or any simi- lar dish; the fat can be used for frying purposes, or will make a pud- ding, while the bones will make good stock. Contrast this with a dish of loin cutlets prepared in the more general manner; in such cases fifty per cent, of the nutriment finds its way into the dust-bin or some other equally unsuitable place. Boning is certainly some little trouble, hut it is an art which every house- keeper should acquire, though, if re- quested, the butcher will perform the operation. Cutlets as abovo may bo grilled or broiled. The fillets may bo kept for a separate dish of little cutlets for an entree; or cut and cooked with the rest. Or it may be braised. A boned cutlet braised is also a typical invalid’s dish, as it is certain to be tender and easy of diges- tion. In preparing any dish of loin cutlets, it may bo taken for granted that, whether boned ones are specified or not, nothing will be lost, while much may be gained, by carrying out the above directions. Cutlets, Mutton Loin, Fried. —After taking the meat from the bones, and removing most of the fat, also the gristle, cut the meat in slices, barely half an inch thick; put on each a morsel of salt, pepper, and mushroom powder, or a pinch of herbs; then dip in beaten eggs, and coat them with fine, stale crumbs ; lay them on a plate, sprinkled -with crumbs, and leave for an hour; this is to make the casing dry, so that it will brown quickly. Havo the fat in readiness, test it as directed (sec Frying) ; then put the cutlets in a frying basket; plunge them in (mind that the fat covers them), and in a minute they will be done, or rather they will be by the time they are served, because the cooking goes on after they are taken from the fat. Tho outer covering being firm, tho heat is kept in. They may now bo served simply with mashed potatoes, or a pureo of vegetables in the centre, as celery, white haricots, spinncli, sorrel, onions, &c., &e. Or they may be converted into dishes suitnhlo for entrees by means of various rich sanccs and garnishes. Another way.—Make somo clarified dripping hot in a frying-pan ; lay in the cutlets, peppered a little; turn in a few seconds, then cook them, turning246 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. every minute until done; from seven to ten minutes, unless they are liked thick, then twelve to fifteen minutes must he given. The gravy should clot on the surface. Serve verv hot. Cutlets, Mutton, Neck. — Take the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the tops of the bones ; then cut the meat off, so as to leave the Fia. 65.—Cutlet Bat. bone bare to the extent of nearly an inch. The thick part of the chine bone must be chopped off, and the cutlets batted out evenly. A cutlet bat is the best for the purpose (sec Fig. 65), but a heavy knife will answer, if care be taken not to cut the meat. The knife should bo dipped in cold water before using it. The skin should be taken off each cutlet, and the bone scraped. A carelessly-pre- pared cutlet will never be enjoyed, however elaborately it may be dressed; while if care be taken to make it appetising in appearance it will be relished, however plain may be the method of cooking. Cutlets, Mutton, Shoulder. —A lean portion from the shoulder will furnish good cutlets; they should be cut in slices of half an inch or more in thickness, and after batting out may be cooked in any of the usual ways. They are particularly nice egged and crumbed, and nicely fried, and served with onion or celery sauce, or a puree of either of the vegetables. They are also very good when grilled, with caper or tomato sauce. Cutlets, Pork, a la Bins- woode.—Required : seven or eight small cutlets, neck or loin, from lean dairy-fed pork, wine, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 3s. 3d. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute pan, put in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, with a fourth as much thyme and sage, a bay leaf, and a slice of onion; add a clove or two, and a salt- spoonful of mignonette pepper; stir for a minute, then lay in the cutlets, pour a glass of light wine over, cover, and let them cook softly for fifteen minutes. Then take them up, drain well, and leave to cool. Have ready some seasoned crumbs and a beaten egg; brush the cutlets with a little French mustard, and |P sprinkle them with curry powder (a saltspoonful does for two cut- lets) ; coat them with eggs and crumbs, dip them into boiling fat to cover, and when brown and crisp, drain, and serve in a ring round a puree of split peas. Garnish the top with little croutons, spread with thick tomato sauce, in which a small quantity of hot pickles, finely chopped, has been mixed. Put a pint of tomato sauce round the base, first mixing with it any wine from the stewpan, and serve very hot. Clear mixed pickles are best for the sauce, but thick pickle, or picca- lilli, will do. Piquant, caper, tartare, and many other sauces are suitable for serving with pork cutlets when plainly drossod (see Joints and Plain DisHEs). Cutlets, Pork, with Sauce Robert.—Required : pork, sherry, herbs, eggs, and crumbs, seasoning, and sauce as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Lay two pounds of young pork —out into neat cutlets and trimmed properly—in a deep dish. Put in a saucepan a glass of sherry, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a few peppercorns and shalots, and a bit of mace; add a tablespoonful each of French vinegar and tarragon vinegar, boil up, and when cool, pour over the cutlets. Let them lie in the mixture for a few hours, turning often, then drain and dry them, and coat with egg and crumbs. Cook them thoroughly247 MADE DISHES AND RELEV^S. by grilling or frying, and serve the above-named sauce with them. Cutlets, Venetian—Required: veal cutlets, herbs, mushrooms, stock, eggs, cream, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about 3s. Chop finely and separately, then all together, half a pint of mushrooms, two shalots, a little parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Mix them thoroughly and stew them for ten minutes over a slow fire in a little butter, with a slice of fat bacon cut into dice. Sprinkle a little popper over two pounds of veal cutlets, put them into the saucepan, and cook them gently till quite tender. Add a gill of white stock by degrees while cook- ing. Draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute or two ; then thicken the sauce with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs mixed with a gill of hot cream. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Before serv- ing, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. The meat will require about an hour’s cooking. Add salt to taste when nearly done. Ham in Curry Gravy.—Re- quired : two pounds of ham, a pint of gravy as above, vegetables, &c. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of gravy. Cut the ham in a nice square shape, and boil it in the usual way until almost done. Then put it in a sauce- pan, the fat uppermost; pour the gravy round it, cover, and leave for twenty minutes; serve on a hot dish with the gravy round it, and send suitable vegetables to table. The ham should be skinned as usual. A piecj of ham previously boiled, may be sliced and heated in the gravy ; the dish should then be garnished with tomatoes, onions, or other vegetables, nicely dressed, or a puree of any kind can be used, or rice boiled as for curry. Ham in Gravy & la Diable.— Boil the ham as above directed ; dish it on a bed of fried onions or shalots, well- seasoned; pour CiiiAvy X la Diable round it, and garnish with croutons, seasoned ■with French mustard and curry powder before flying. Ham in Robert Sauce.—Boil the ham until nearly done, then put it before the tire, and finish the cook- ing, basting often with a glass of light wine. Take the skin off, cover with raspings, let them brown ; then put a little glaze on with a feather. Serve on a hot dish, with sauce as above round it. Send a puree of sorrel, spinach, or other vegetable to table with it. Ham,Roast, a la Crawsliawe. —Required : a ham, wine, sauce, glaze, vegetables, &e., as below. Cost, about lOd. per pound, exclusive of the ad- juncts. Prepare the ham by trimming and soaking, for twelve hours or more, then put it on to boil in plain bone stock, with a good plateful of mixed vegetables; boil it until half done, then take it up when cool, and put by until quite cold. Wrap it in a greased paper, and cover with a common paste, just as for venison, and finish the cook- ing by roasting or baking. When done, take the paste and paper from the ham, and pour over it a half pint of Madeira mixed with half a gill of herbal vinegar; put it before the fire for twenty minutes, and baste well with the liquor; then glaze it, and pour off the wine which remains; add to it some brown sauce, mixed with an equal measure of tomato pulp ; boil up, and season rather highly ; skim well, and pour a portion round the ham, and servo the rest separately. Plain tomato sauce should be served also. Garnish with braised tomatoes, mushrooms, and small pork sausages, all glazed; or use truffled sausages if liked. After the ham is cooked, before adding the wine and vinegar, it must be skinned. If possible let it be from a small home-cured pig, to ensure mildness of flavour and freedom from salt. Time, about half an hour for each pound.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 248 Ham, Roast, Cold.—Required: a ham, and adjuncts as below. Cost, about lOd. to lid. per pound, exclusive of garnish, &c. This is a very nice dish for a largo party at any time of the year. The ham should he cooked as directed for Ham, Roast a la Crawshaave, but use only half tlie quantity of wine for the final basting, and in skinning and trimming remove any superfluous fat, and make the surface smooth. Then set aside until cold, and lightly glaze the ham ; when this is set, pour over some pale pink aspic. When this is firm, trim tho edges, and put the ham on a clean dish, with a border of dressed watercross to surround it, and some pink and yellow aspic in fancy blocks, and here and thore, some small, whole tomatoes. Put a frill round tho knuckle of tho ham, pink, white, or silver (the latter is moro suitable for a wedding or a <hristoning), and garnish the top with Ham Butter, and Egg Butter, forming any design according to taste ; or some leaves of aspic cun be put all round the ham in a chain, and bordered with the butter; a largo star of aspic, with a similar border, should he put in the centre. For the butter, use a bag with a loaf or rose pipe. Serve any nice salad with tho above; one of fruit, iced, is suitable. XoTi^t- It is very necessary' that the ham be carefully washed for this ; any rusty parts must be removed, as tbe least trace of such will quite spoil the dish. A dish of savoury eggs (see Eggs) may be served with the ham. Kidney, Pig’s, in Batter. - Re- quired : a pig’s kidney, a pint of batter made asforRicn Yorkshire Pudding, seasoning, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. to Is. 6d. Take a kidney from a bacon pig, skin it, and mince it finely, add half its weight of minced ham; chop a small onion, a tablespoonful of parsloy, and a fresh sage leaf; put all in a pan with a little hot butter, and fry from five to ten minutes, stirring all the timo ; then put the whole in a strainer and leave to drain. Put back in a pan with a gill of sauce, Aiti.e and Curry Sauce is nicest; cover, and leave to simmer while the batter is baked. It should be put in two shallow tins, and cooked in a sharp oven. When done, cut into squares or fingers, and make into sandwiches with the kidney mixture; put in the oven to get hot, and sprinkle with coralline pepper just before serving. Make a ring round a dish by letting the pieces overlap, and fill the centre with Fried Addles. If round tins are handy, use them, and cut tho batter into triangular shapes, then the apples can bo served in a separate dish. A mixture of apples and onions, also fried, will bo enjoyed by some, and the same may be said of fried turnips. Kidney, Pig’s, in Sauce.—The sauces most suitable are Curry, Chut- ney, Piquant, or Tartars. Tho kid- ney should bo skinned and sliced, then cooked in a saute pan, and after draining be lnid in tho sauce until hot through. Kidneys, Mutton, Broiled, Whole.— These are very delicious, but care is required, though this may be said of every dish of kidneys. First skin, but do not pierce or cut them; then dip them into enough fat to cover them. It must be as hot as if for frying. Take them out instantly; have some pepper and a little mush- room powder ready on a plate (equal quantities), sprinkle a pinch on each side tho kidneys, and lay them on a greased gridiron over a clear fire. Turn them every minute, and give them from twelve to fifteen minutes. Dish them when the gravy clots on the surface. Have a dish ready as hot as possible, with oval croutons, one for each kidney, and put a small pat of MaItre d’Hotel, or other savoury butter on each. Serve very hot. If tho kidneys are very small, ten minutes will cook them. Kidneys, Mutton, Devilled, Whole.—Skin tho kidneys and dipMADE DISHES AND RELEV^S. 249 them into hot fat as above directed. Then put them in enough sauce or , gravy to cover them, and simmer for fifteen to twenty minutes. Dish with a border of fried potatoes, macaroni, or other suitable garnish. See Sauces and Gbavies. Of the former, chutney, or a brown piquant sauce is best; of gravies, Gravy tor. Devilled Meats will answer ; or for a rich dish, stock No. 16 or 17 may be ■ employed for the foundation, tho usual flavourings being added in proportion to taste. Kidneys, Mutton, with Chablis.—Required: half a dozen kidneys, wine, seasoning, and bacon, as below. Cost, about 2s. Remove the cores and skins, slice tho kidneys, and fry some pieces of bacon of the same size ; then put the kidneys in the bacon fat, toss them about all the time (they must not harden); add some thyme and parsley, salt and pep- per, and a glass of chablis, with a squeeze of lemon juice ; do not boil this, just let it heat, then put the bits of bacon on oblong croutons, put the kidney on, and moisten with the strained gravy. Place these in a row down the middle of a dish, and put vegetables down the sides, or serve plainly. The gravy may bo very slightly thickened. Kidneys, M utt on, with Vege- tables. —Required : kidneys, bacon, vegetables, garnish, &c., as below. Cost of kidneys, about Is. Total cost, variable. Remove the cores, and cut the kidneys in halves; cook them in bacon fat as above directed, then dish them, each half on a bit of bacon laid on a crouton as above. Have some vegetables cooked as for j ulienne soup ; moisten these with Brown Sauce, or Sauce Piquant is better still; put a little heap in each half kidney, and serve some potatoes round the dish ; or instead of the latter, some carrots boiled until nearly done, then dipped in beaten egg and crumbs, and fried brown, may bo used (tee Dressed Vegetables), This is a good dish for breakfast. The remains of any savoury potted meat may be minced, and put in the kidneys, under the vegetables, and will greatly improve them. Kidneys, Pig's, Stuffed.—Re- quired : two kidneys, some pork sausage meat, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 2s. Prepare the kidneys in the usual way (see Pig’s Kidneys) ; mix some chopped onion with the sausage meat, and add a teaspoonful of grated ham, and the same of French mustard. Put a teaspoonful of tho mixture in each half kidney, level it with a warm knife—it should be dipped in hot water—then dredge with crumbs, and brush over with oil or butter. Cook in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, turning them about that every part may be done. Then serve with any suitable sauce round them. Allow about twenty minutes, and brown the crumbs well. Another way.—Use cold pork for the stuffing; it may be mixed with a little ham or bacon; and use mushroom or tomato pulp in place of the onion. Kidneys, Pig's, Truffled.— Required: kidneys, forcemeat, sauce or gravy, &c., as below. Cost, in- clusive, about 8d. to lUd. each. Dip each half kidney into warm butter, then fill with Truffled Force- meat, level, and cook as above. Mix some truffle essence and sherry, a table- spoonful of each, with a gill and a half of brown sauce or gravy ; if tho latter, stock No. 6 or 7 may bo thickened slightly and used, or No. 16 or 17 for a better dish. Dish each half kidney on a crofiton and pour the gravy round. Calf’s kidneys may bo cooked as above. The sauce given is enough for two kidneys. ILamb a la Perigord.—Re- quired : a loin of lamb, oil, bacon, mushrooms, stock, seasoning, &o., as under. Cost, about Is. per pound. Trim tho meat neatly; put in a stowpa.n a layer of chopped mush*250 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rooms, with a small oaion mixed, a bunch of herbs, and a gill of olive oil; when hot, lay the meat in; cook until brown, basting often. Then pour off the oil, cover with a but- tered paper, lay a slice or two of lemon in, and pour stock from mutton bones to half cover the meat. Cook gently (about twenty minutes to each pound must be allowed). When nearly done, add three or four truffles in shreds or slices. Dish the meat, glaze it, then keep hot while the gravy is skimmed, thickened, and boiled up; more stock must be added to make up the quantity required. Pour it round the meat, put the truffles in little heaps, with small rolls of grilled bacon in between. Small mutton may be served as above. Lamb a la Sudhalle.—Roast a loin of lamb in the usual way, then cut it up, and place the pieces en couronne round a hot dish. Put a puree of spinach in a forcing bag with a fancy pipe, and ornament the dish, between the pieces of meat, with it. In the centre put some fancy shapes of carrot, turnip, and cucumber, all braised (see Vegetables). Pour a little Cafek Sauce over, and send more to table separately. Cost, as above. Lamb a, la Swindon (See recipe for Mutton X la Turque).— Prepare and stuff some lamb similarly, except that the curry powder is to be omitted. Koast this nicely, and when done, sprinkle some fried crumbs over it. Prepare a dish of Rice a la Swindon, and put it in piles round the meat on a large dish. Send Cucumber Sauce and gravy to table separately. Cost, about Is. per pound. Lamb Cream, Moulded.-- Required: a pound of raw lamb, half a pint of cream, a gill of thick Veloute or Supreme Sauce, four eggs, and some macaroni. Cost, about 2s. 6d., without the vegetable garnish. Parboil some pipe macaroni, and cut it into rings ; stick these together on a buttered border mould. (See Garnishes.) Cut the meat up; pound and sieve it; add the cream, sauce, and yolks of eggs; season with salt, white pepper, a dust of cayenne and nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered herbs. Cut up two to three tablespoonfuls of the macaroni, mix well together, then whip the whites of the eggs stiffly, stir them in, and fill the mould with the mixture. Steam it for an hour and a half, then turn out on a hot dish. In the middle of the mould put some asparagus points or peas, mixed with a little of the same sauce used in the mixture, and put more vegetables and sauce round the mould. Mutton may be similarly cooked ; and for a cheaper dish white sauce of a plain kind may bo used in place of veloute, and half the cream can be dispensed with; a gill of milk, thick- ened a little with panada or roux, taking its place; or some thickened white stock can be used instead. Lamb Cream, a la Parme- san (See recipe above).—Proceed as therein directed, but add one ounce of grated Parmesan to the mixture. When done, turn out and pour- over the following sauce. To half a pint of Creamy Bechamel, add two ounces of grated Parmesan, a pinch of cayenne, and a dash of French mus- tard ; beat in the yolk of an egg, and add an ounce of butter last thing. Garnish round the mould with Cro- quettes of Macaroni and Parmesan. Fill the centre of the mould with macaroni boiled in white stock and mixed with a little sauce as above. On the top put some poached eggs, with most of the white removed; a sprinkling of grated cheese, and a dust of coralline popper should bo put into the centre of each yolk. Mutton may be used instead of lamb, or half meat and half poultry makes a nice dish. Lambs’ Sweetbreads, with Bacon. — Required : sweetbreads, bacon, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Wash and trim them, and boilMADE DISnES AND RELEVES. 251 them in a little milk and water, or weak stock, to cover them, for fourteen to twenty minutes; add a few hits of vegetable, and a sprig of thyme and parsley to flavour. Take them up, dry them, and when cool egg and crumb them ; flavour the crumbs with a pinch of salt, pepper, and herbs. Try some little slices of bacon, two for each sweetbread (do not make them brown or hard), then keep them hot, and cook the sweetbreads in the bacon fat: a little more fat may be necessary, but the rales for Dky Frying must be ob- served. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with the bacon, for a breakfast dish, without sauce or gravy ; but if for a luncheon dish, a little suitable sauce may be poured round, and a vegetable puree, or nicely dressed whole vegetables served in the centre. Liver a la Millicent.—Re- quired : liver, bread, and garnish, as below. Cost of liver, about 8d. per pound. Cook the liver as directed in the recipe for LrvER, Sauted. Fry some pieces of bread, the shape of the slices of liver, but rather larger ; and prepare also some small, oval pieces of bread; coat these with brown sauce mixed with grated ham and mustard, after frying them. Dish the liver on the large slices, and put the small ones on the top. Garnish with fried parsley and potatoes in any approved form, or a puree of any sort. Make a gravy in the pan and serve separately. Liver, Braised.—Required : a calf 3, lamb’s, or sheep’s liver, gravy, vegetables, Ac., as below. Cost, about 91. to Is. per pound, inclusive. AV ash and dry the liver—it should be fresh—then season it with pepper, grated lemon peel, and powdered herbs. I*ut some vegetables of the usual kind in a stewpan to form a bed ; add a slice of bacon, Lay the liver on, and put slices of bacon over; cover, and let it cook for ten minutes. Add plain stock to half its depth, put a greased paper over, and the lid on, then cook in a gentle oven, basting often over the paper. When done, dish the liver, brush it with glaze, and put it on a puree of vegetables, or whole mushrooms laid on a hot dish; garnish with vegetables in fancy shapes, separately cooked. Skim and reduce the gravy; add enough stock to make a pint or a pint and a half, thicken, and season to taste ; pour a little over the liver, and serve the rest in a tureen. Or make some sauce (Tomato, Caper, or other suitable kind), and reserve the gravy for another dish. Little rolls of bacon, or small sausages, may also be used for garnish. A pig’s liver may be cooked as above. A piquant sauce should ac- company it; it will then be more digestible. Liver, Curried.—Cut the liver into suitable sized pieces, and cook in Curry Sauce. Serve with boiled rice and fried onions. A mixture of liver and kidney makes a nice curry, but the liver must be cooked longer than the kidney. Liver, Devilled (a Breakfast Dish).—Required : a pound of calf’s liver, a gill of bread crumbs, three ounces of pickled pork, a pinch of grated cloves and nutmeg, a small saltspoonful of cayenne, the same measure of black pepper, a large tea- spoonful of salt, a grate of lemon peel, and a little wine. Cost, about Is. 3d. Chop the liver and pork; add the seasoning and crumbs, and moisten with a tablespoonful of port; press down tightly in a jar with a lid, set it in a saucepan, with boiling water to three parts cover it, and let the water boil for two hours. Then take it up, remove the lid, and servo cold in tliin slices. Liver, Devilled (a Luncheon Dish) .—Slico some calf’s or lamb’s liver very thinly, after washing nnd drying; brush it with mustard and chutney, sprinkle with popper, and then dip "it in warm butter or oil; grill or broil it at a clear fire, and dishUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 252 in a ring, with Devil Sauce or gravy round it, and a pile of Tomatoes, Grilled, a la Diable, in the middle. Instead of tomatoes, fried onions, mixed with a little thick brown sauce, in which some curry paste has been dissolved, may be used; or either of the sauces piquant can be poured over the onions. Liver in a Mask.—Required: a pound of liver, sheep’s or lamb’s, two kidneys, mashed potatoes, bacon, grated ham, sauce, and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. 4d. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute pan; slice, flour, and fry the liver until dono, turning it often; then put it in a clean saucepan, with the kidneys minced very small, after they have simmered for five minutes in a tablespoonful of claret. Then add half a pint of Brown Italian Sauce. In the butter in the saute pan stir two ounces of grated ham, and a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, with a little seasoning. Fry some slices of bacon separately; spread them with a little of the mixture, roll them up, and put a little skewer through each. Put a hank of Rich Mashed Potatoes straight down a dish; spread the liver, &c., on it, then put more potatoes on the top, using a bag and pipe; it should cover the meat. Dredge crumbs over, and put it in the oven for a minute, then sprinkle the lop with chopped parsley, and garnish with the rolled bacon. Another way.—Spread the potato over, using a palette knife; then mark it with.a skewer in cross bars; brown us before, and garnish with fried parsley. In following either recipe, the liver should bo cut in one inch squares after frying it. This facilitates the serving. Liver, Sauted. — Required : a pound of liver (any kind will do except bullock’s), bread, wine, butter, season- ing, &c. Cost, about Is. 6d. Slice the liver, dry it well, and cut the bread the same size and thickness; season both liver and bread with pepper, grated nutmeg, and powdered herbs. Make the butter hot in a saute pan, two or three ounces will be wanted; lay the liver in, and cook gently, turning every minute. Time, according to kind; as soon as all trace of redness disappears it is done. The bread must be fried in the usual way [see Croutons). Then dish both alter- nately on a hot dish; flour the pan, scrape it well, pour in a gill of light wine, and a gill of clear stock, No. 6 or 7; boil up, and pour round the meat. Fill the centre with vegetables of any kind, if for luncheon or dinner; if for breakfast, it may bo served plainly, or with tomatoes or mush- rooms, cooked in any approved way. Meat Porcupine (a Conti- nental Lisk).—Required : a pound of beefsteak, four ounces each of lean ham and fat pork, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a saltspoonful of mixed spice in powder, a chopped onion, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a fourth as much thyme and basil mixed, an egg, some stock, and bacon for larding. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Put the steak, ham, and pork through a sausage machine; add all the seasoning, and blend well. Beat up an egg, with half a gill of strong warm stock (it must jelly when cold); add it to the mass, and form it into a smooth oval shape. When cold and firm, lard it thickly with the bacon. Heat a little oil or butter, and brown the meat in it for ten minutes, then pour the fat off; add half a pint of stock (No. 1 or 2) and cook for an hour and a half, gently, then thicken and season the gravy, and pour it round the porcupine on a hot dish. The larding is to be carried right through the meat. Garnish with scraped horse-radish, put in little heaps between a Puree of Spinach or sorrel; this is to be forced from a bag with a fancy pipe. Any of the sauces for dark meats may be served with this : Oyster, Mushroom, Chestnut, &c., &c.j in addition to the gravy.MADE DlSItES AND RKLEVES. 253 Mutton a la Lucknow.—Re- quired : a pound and a half of lean mutton, from the neck or loin, cut up as for curry; sauce, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Sd. Sprinkle the meat with the follow- ing mixture a saltspoonful each of ground ginger, white pepper, ground allspice, and curry powder, and a tea- spoonful of celery salt. Make some fat hot, fry the meat a nice brown, then fry some onions in rings, in the same fat, first seasoning them with curry powder. Put both meat and onions in a clean pan, pour over half a pint of stock, No. 6 or 7, bring to the boil, skim very thoroughly, then add a tablespoonful of Lucknow Chctxbt. In half an hour, stir in an ounce of fine rice flour, mixed smoothly with cold stock to a paste, and a glass of claret; simmer for an hour longer, adding a little stock now and then. Just before serving, put in a gill of tomato conserve, a little lemon juice, and a few drops of essence of ginger. The sauce should just coat the meat. Put a border of rice round the dish; it should be blanched, then cooked in stock as used for the meat, and seasoned with the same spices used for sprinkling the meat; a little chutney should also be added, and some chillies should be sprinkled on the top. Mutton a la Turque.—Re- quired : a loin of mutton, boned, and freed from most of the fat; and some rice, stuffing, See., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound. Take some veal stuffing, and to half a pound, add two ounces of chopped sul- tana raisins, and a teaspoonful of curry powder; mix well, lay this on the mutton, and sprinkle it with some lean bacon, about four ounces, in thin strips; roll up tightly, and bind the meat, then roast it well; it must be basted often, AVhen done, take it up, and make some gravy in the usual way, but with a tablespoonful of sherry and a teaspoonful of extract of meat to half a pint. Have ready some Ricb a la Tukciue. Put the meat on a very hot dish, with the rice round it; sprinkle the surface with chopped capsicums and a few shreds of saffron, and strew two or three ounces of sultana raisins over, first stewing them in a small quantity of stock for twenty minutes. Send the gravy to table separately, and if liked, some currant jelly. For this the Rich Veal Forcemeat made with butter is best. This is an excellent dish when cold. Mutton and Okra, Curried. —Required : a tin of okra (see Vege- taiii.es), two pounds of lean mutton, cut into squares of an inch and a half, curry, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. Put the contents of tho tin into a lined saucepan, bring to the boil, add an onion, fried after slicing, and a seasoning of curry paste and powder, about a dessertspoonful of each, mixed with stock to a paste; add a bay leaf and the meat; cover, and cook gently for half an hour, then add a table- spoonful of rice flour mixed with stock to a paste ; boil up, and simmer for another half hour. The meat should by then be tender; if not, continue the coolring, but it should not be allowed to become “raggy” in appearance. Take out the bay leaf, and add salt to taste, and a little lemon juice. Remove the meat, put it on a hot dish, boil tho sauce quickly for a minute or two (it should be thick) and pour it over; serve with a plentiful supply of rice boiled ns usual for curries. For a superior dish, pass the okra and sauce through a sieve; reboil, and lay in the meat again to reheat. Send cut lemons or limes to table with it, and sprinkle the rice with corallino popper. “ Okra and tomatoes ” in tins may bo used in the same way. Mutton Curried, witli Sul- tanas.—Required : two pounds of lean, raw mutton, cut in tho usual way, a pint of Cuuky Sauce, two ounces of sultana raisins, half an ounco of glaze, Bomo lemon juice, &c., ns below. Cost of mutton, ubout Is. 8d.254 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Fry the meat until nicely browned, then remove it, and make the sauce, using for its foundation stock No. 4. Put the meat in, and cook until nearly done, adding a spoonful of stock now and then; then put in the sultanas, picked and blanched (i.e. put in cold water, and brought to the boil); cook for twenty minutes or so longer, add the glaze, with lemon juice to taste, and more seasoning if required. Turn out, and put a Pice Border round; sprinkle with coralline pepper, and put a few chillies in the curry. During the cooking add a hay leaf to the gravy, or put some powdered hay leaf in with the onions, &c. Another way.—If it is desired pale in colour, the above may he converted into cream curry, by omitting the frying of the meat, and using stock from mutton hones, instead of brown stock. Just before sorving, a gill of thick cream, heated, should be stirred in. Mutton Cutlets a la Russe. —Required: half a dozen cutlets, trimmed neatly, and the bones scraped, a gill of white wine, a gill of tomato pulp,half a pint of Brown Sauce, No. 2, a sprig of parsley and thyme, a slice each of carrot, onion, and celery, a tablespoonful of chopped capers, butter and seasoning. Cost, about 3s. Melt the butter, brown the cutlets in it; a minute on each side will suffice; put them in a clean pan, with the wine and vegetables; add the herbs and a few peppercorns ; when the wine is absorbed, take out the vegetables, &c., put in the tomato pulp and capers, and in ten minutes dish the meat, with the pulp spread over ; make the brown sauce hot, and pour it round the cutlets. Mutton Cutlets, with Hari- cots.—Kequired : mutton, beans, ham, butter, cheese, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Divide the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and grill or broil nicely. Boil a pint of white haricot beans (supposing six or seven cutlets) in the usual way, with a Spanish onion; it should be peeled and minced, and added when the beans are half done. When they are tender, put in two ounces of chopped ham, an ounce of butter, a table- spoonful of grated cheese, and seasoning to taste; shake the pan for a minute, then turn the contents on a hot dish, and place the cutlets round the pile. If liked, the cutlets can be egged and crumbed, and fried; then, after cooking, a little cheese should he sprinkled over, a salamander being held over to brown the surface; and the beans may he sieved, and re- heated before the ham, &c., are added. This treatment is a great improvement. During the latter part of the cooking, the pan should he uncovered, so that when done there is no moisture to pour off; only just enough to moisten the beans. MuttonCutlets,withOnious. —After cooking the cutlets, brush them with glaze, and sprinkle them with finely shredded onions, fried until brown and crisp. Dish them in a circle, with a brown onion puree in the centre. Mutton Escalopes, Fried.— Cut the under-meat from the loin in pieces, as directed for Cutlets, Loin, Fried, and cook them in the same way. They may he served in any of the ways given for cutlets, and take their name from the sauce or other accompaniment. Lamb may he simi- larly served. The sauces, &c., sent to table with it should he delicate in character. (See remarks at end of Cutlets, Loin, Fried.) Mutton Escalopes, withKid- neys.—-Required : six escalopes, three sheep’s kidneys, gravy and seasoning, forcemeat, &c., as under. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Divide the kidneys, skin them, take out the core and pepper them, cook them in any approved way, together with the escalopes. They may he grilled, or fried plainly, or egged and955 MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. crumbed; if the latter, a little nice forcemeat (any suitable kind free from suet) should be put in the hollow of < each half kidney. Dish them alter- : nately round a very hot dish, and serve a nice gravy round them. Fill up the middle with cooked Italian 1 paste (see recipes under the various headings), mixed with a little parsley, scalded and chopped, and a seasoning of pepper and mushroom powder. Another way.—Sprinkle the meat •with curry powder before cooking, and serve with curry sauce or gravy, and boiled rice in the centre. Mutton, Fillets, with. Kid- mey.—Required: nine thin shoes of mutton kidney, skinned and cored, twice the number of thin slices of : mutton, any lean tender part the size of the kidney, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of sauce. Put a piece of kidney between two : pieces of meat, and lard them light through with thin strips of bacon in five or six places. Then trim the .lardoons almost level with the meat. ! Broil or grill for about twelve minutes; or cook in a buttered .tin in the oven under a buttered paper, turning when half done. Glaze and crisp the surface, then dish with a pile of French beans, or a Puree of iFi.AGEoi.ETs in the centre, and pour ■round a sauce, made by mixing a gill ■and a half of brown sauce with half a ■gill of tomato pulp, a tablespoonful of wherry, and a few drops of carmine. Mutton, Kebobbed.—This is a favourite Oriental recipe, and with our English mutton, a dish superior to ■any found at Turkish or Egyptian tables ought to be easily obtained. A loin of mutton should be first jointed at every bone; all superfluous fat removed, particularly that of the kidney, and the skin taken away. ITho next thing is the seasoning. For '.this, a well-proportioned mixture ac- cording to taste must be made from the ’following ingredients Borne bread- crumbs, sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, ■ and salt; brush the mutton chops over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle the above mixture thickly over them; then tie the chops together in their original order, run a large skewer, or slender spit through them, and roast before a quick fire, basting them well with butter and the drippings from the meat, and putting more of the seasoning on them from time to time. Have ready a boat of gravy, to which has been added two tablespoonfuls of ketchup and a thickening of flour; let this boil; skim, and mix it with the gravy in the dish. Remember that all dishes ‘ of mutton should be served as hot as possible. Time, about twenty minutes per pound; rather less in warm weather. A nice vegetable should be served with this; stewed onions, with any dish of rice or macaroni is suitable. Cost, Is. per pound. The best end of the neck may be substituted for loin. Lamb or venison can be prepared in the same way, but for venison a higher seasoning is required; cloves, allspice, or. coriander seeds, finely ground, may be added to the rest, and powdered ginger is liked by some. Mutton, Leg of, with Rice.— Required: a small leg of mutton, Mushroom Forcemeat, rice, stock, and vegetables, &c., as under. Cost, about Is. 2d. per pound inclusive. The meat must be lean, and a nice shape at the fillet end; the bone should be removed, with the exception of the knuckle end. Then put in the forcemeat, and braise the meat with mixed vegetables, and a little stock made from mutton bones, adding more as it reduces. One or two mush- rooms, or some ketchup, should bo put in to flavour the meat. Dish and keep hot, glaze it if liked, then spread some rice, plainly boiled, on a hot dish ; mix some brown sauco with a glass of sherry, boil for a fow minutes, pour this over the rice, and dish the meat on it. I ho gravy from the stewpan should be boiled quickly, then mixed with more brown sauco to make a pintUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 256 and a half or more, and sent separately to table. Some Glazed Mushrooms should be used for garnishing'. Time, from three to four hours. Mutton, Leg of with To- matoes.—Use for this a good Veal Forcemeat, adding to each pound the pulp of a large tomato. Braise as above, but with no vegetables, except an onion, if liked, and a couple of tomatoes. Dish the rice, and pour over it some Tomato Sauce, and send more to table in a tureen. Note.—After boning and stuffing the meat, it must be fastened with tape and skewers to keep it a good shape, and a piece of thick muslin should be tied over the fillet end. Lamb may be cooked in the same way. Time must bo given for the gravy to cool, in order that it may be cleared of fat. These dishes are a welcome change, when cold, from a plain joint. Salad and sweet pickles should bo served with them, or a nice cold sauce. Mutton, Heck of, Stewed with Oysters.—Bequired : a piece of the best part of a neck of mutton, the middle, if possible, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Wash the meat free from blood; dry, and chop it ready for serving; then turn it about in a little hot fat in a stewpan, until brown. Pour over half a pint of mutton stock from bones, cold, this will throw up the fat; skim, and add the liquor from a score of oysters, a little anchovy essence, the juice of half a lemon, and a sprig of parsley. Bring to tho boil, put iu a dozen peppercorns, and cook until the meat is tender. Then put it on a dish, and keep it hot; strain and skim the liquor; make it up to a pint, then thicken with white roux, and add a score or more of oysters. Pour this round the meat, and serve very hot. Another way.—Brush the meat with glaze, and dredge it with bread- crumbs mixed with cayenne pepper, ground nutmeg, and a little salt and powdered herbs. Brown this before the fire, while the sauce is being made. Mutton, Ragout of, with Gniocchi.—Bequired : two pounds of mutton from the thick part of a leg, or the under-meat of the shoulder, six ounces each of onions and mush- rooms, wine, gravy, seasoning, and tomato puree, and some Gniocchi. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Cut the meat about an inch thick, and in pieces two inches long. Put an ounce or two of bacon in dice in a stewpan; add the chopped onions and mushrooms, and fry for a few minutes, then put in a gill of tomato puree, fresh or bottled, the same measure of claret, and half a pint of stock from mutton bones, or the gravy of a joint; add a little pepper, and put on the lid. Cook gently for an hour and three- quarters, turning a time or two ; then put in salt to taste, and a gill or so more stock, with a small quantity of roux or browned flour; boil up gently, and in ten minutes serve in a hot dish, and either garnish with the gniocchi, cut into squares, or send it to table in the dish it is baked in. Mutton, Shoulder of, Boned and Braised.—Take the blade bone from a small shoulder, freed from most of the fat, put any nice forcemeat in the place, then shape it, and tie it securely; also sew it up with thread. Braise in the usual way with vege- tables and stock. Glaze when done, and servo with the giavy thickened, and some Glazed Onions round (lie meat. Cost, about 9d. to lOd. per pound. Mutton, Shoulder of, Boned and Roasted.—Take the bone altogether from the meat, then put forcemeat in, and form it like a ball, or into a nice oval; tho latter is the easier. The forcemeat should be shaped in a roll, then the meat should be rolled like a galantine, and tied securely. Make the forcemeat by mincing a couplo of sheep’s kidneys; add them to half a pound of Veal257 MADE DISHES AND RELEVlis. Sausage Meat, a gill of Mushroom Puree, and some bread crumbs; just to give the mixture consistency while shaping it. Then flour and roast the meat; or it can be baked. Serve good gravy with it, made from the bones, and a dish of French beans or other vegetable. Cost, as above. Another way.—Use Mutton Sausage Meat, mixed with an equal bulk of chopped ham for the stuffing (or Oyster. Forcemeat is excellent; then Oyster Sauce is required). Another way.—Use Herb Forcemeat and serve Cucumber Puree with the meat. Bread crumbs and powdered herbs, with the rind of half a lemon grated, should be sprinkled on the meat after it is done, then browned well. Directions for the boning of meats will be found in the next chapter. Ox Palates a la Jardini- ere.—Kequired : two palates, and some vegetables, stock, &c., as below. Cost, very variable. Prepare the palates by cleansing and blanching (see Ox Palates) ; press until cold between two plates with a weight on. Cut them into rounds, and cover with any nice brown stock; lay them in a saucepan, and cook for three to five hours until quite tender. When nearly done, pour off any stock, add a glass of h'ght wine, and cook until it is all absorbed. Have a hot dish ready, covered with some cooked sparghetti; pour over it some Sauce Herbage and put the palates in a ring round the edge of the sparghetti, with slices of cooked cucumber and carrot in between. Prepare a little pile of the same with other vegetables, by cutting them in the proper shapes (kcc Vegetables for Garnish) ; put these on the top of the sauce, and add a few chopped capers or some sprigs of chervil, cress, &c. Send more sauce to table. The stock in which the palates were cooked will make good soup. Ox Palates an Gratin. — Required : two palates, two or three ounces of ham, seasoning and mixed herbs, two button mushrooms, a shalot, a tablespoonful of bread, and half as much cream. Cost, uncertain. The palates should be flrst cleaned, and then boiled and skinned. Make the above ingredients into forcemeat, scrap- ing the ham, and seasoning as if for veal, but rather more highly than ordinary veal stuffing. Cut tho palates in long slices, spread them with the mixture, roll each in a round, and tie it up. Bake them for half an hour in a buttered tin dredged with bread crumbs and sweet herbs; brush them with butter, dredge with crumbs, and put a few bits of butter on tho top. Serve plain or with sauce, any kind such as would be served with steaks, fillets of beef, &c. Gx Palates, Piquant.—After boiling the palates, cut them as above, and lay on each a small quantity of tomato pulp, bread crumbs, and a bit of cooked bacon in dice, mixed to a paste; roll up, and finish in the oven as above. Then serve them in a dish with Piquant Sauce to cover them ; put a few pickled walnuts in a dish in the oven, with stock to cover them ; when hot, use them for garnishing the dish ; serve Tomato Salad or Pickled Tomatoes separately ; the latter can be heated if preferred. In place of either, chopped pickled gherkins and capers will answer. Cost, uncertain. Ox Tail a la Nordica.—Re- quired : an ox tail, herbs, and vege- tables, claret, sauce, garnish, and seasoning as below. Cost of tails, very variable. Blanch an ox tail after jointing it; dry it well, and fry it until lightly brownedin a little hot butter, with a few bits of vegetables, and a bunch of herbs. 'Then drain it from the fat, and put it in a stewpan with a gill of claret, a gill of brown stock (No. 4), and half a pint of Brown Sauce. Put in (in addi- tion to the vegetables from the frying- pan) a tablespoonful each of minced onion, gratodcarrot, outer part only, and minced celery; a few black peppercorns,258 Universal COoKERV b661£. and a clove, a bay leaf, and a small to- mato ; put a sheet of buttered paper over, and cook in a moderate oven for three hours or more. During the cooking, haste and skim now and then. When tender, take up the pieces of meat with a perforated spoon or small slice; put them in a pile on a hot dish, and keep warm, whilo the sauce and vegetables are sieved and re-heated. Then season to taste, and pour over the tail. Have ready some rings of fried bread; they should be the size of a florin, the middle being removed with a small round cutter. Put these all round the meat, over- lapping, to form a border, and in each hollow place half a cherry, uncrvs- tallised, having first warmed them in a little wine or gravy to cover them. Then, round each half cherry, put a little chopped truffle. While garnishing, set the dish over boiling water. Ox Tail with Beetroot.— Make a puree of beetroot, or preparo some fancy shapes of boiled beetroot (sec Garnishes). Pile it up on a dish, and put the tail, cooked as in the above recipe, all round it. Preparo some ring croutons the size of a shilling; put them about tho puree in a pattern; and fill the centres of them with a little green vegetable pureo of any sort. Put some more croutons, rather larger, out- side the meat to form an outer border, and garnish them in the same way. Ox Tail with Oysters.— Required : an ox tail, a pint of Brown Sauce, a dozen oysters, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Blanch, joint, and fry the tail until well browned; cook it in stock just enough to cover it; by the time it is tender the liquid should he almost absorbed. Then add the brown sauce, and strained oyster liquor, with salt, cayenne, and a tcaspoonful each of lemon juice and anchovy essence. Beard the oysters, and put them in the sauce just before serving. Serve in a Border, of Potatoes, or garnish with Potato Chips. Ox Tail with Prunes and Sultanas {See Beef, Fillet, with Olives).—Cook the tail as directcdatthe end of the recipe, but instead of olives, add some French plums stewed in claret until it is absorbed, and the plums quite soft, and some sultana raisins, picked and cooked in the stewpan with tho meat. Serve with a puree of any vegetable preferred, and send sweet pickles separately to table. Cost, uncertain. Ox Tongue a la Belgravia.— Required: a collared ox tongue {see Joints), a dozen Foes a la Belgravia, and the same number of Chicken Quen - elles, some Ham Butter, and plain Curled Butter; pink and yellow aspic, parsley, and tarragon and chervil. Cost, about 8s. Cd.; more if a large tongue. Put the tongue on a flat silver or plated dish ready for serving; give it a quarter inch coating, top and sides, of pink aspic; place the eggs and quenelles round the base, after trimming it evenly, and cutting the eggs in two lengthwise. Put a border of the plain butter round the top edge of tho tongue, and a narrower row of ham butter on the top of the first border; a bag with a small rose pipe will be needed. In the middle of the tongue put more ham butter, form- ing a circle the size of a crown piece, to imitate a rose; use a large rose pipe for this : put some leaves of chervil or tarragon round it (or use Green Butter from a leaf pipe), then cover the space between the butters with chopped aspic. Form an outer border on the dish with the remainder of the eggs, some tufts of parsley, and blocks of aspic. This is a handsome and substantial dish for ball suppers, &c. In serving, a portion of egg should bo put on each plate, together with part of a quenelle; they should be moulded, and of good size. If half are coloured pink, the dish is more effective. A piece of beef may be cooked and served as above {sec Beef, Collared).MADE DISHES AND RELEVES. 259 Ox Tongue a la Calcutta.— Required: an ox tongue, butter, salad, curried eggs and quenelles and sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 8s. to 9s. Boil or braise an ox tongue, nnd dish it, after skewering it to a board to preserve its shape. It should be trimmed nicely, and any excess of fat removed. Glaze it thinly, and orna- ment the tip with sieved egg yolk, and green butter, or ham butter (see Gaulishes). The tip generally looks somewhat ragged, and is preferably covered by the garnish. Then ornament the rest of the tongue in rows, with the same garnish, and fasten a frill on. Put a bed of dressed green salad at the sides to fill up the hollow, and place in it some Ccruied Eggs cut in quarters (a dozen or more may be used). Then place chopped aspic round the dish, and lay on it a border of curried quenelles, with sprigs of parsley or chervil in between. When ready to serve, put some little blocks of Iced Sauce a i.a Calcutta on a dish; or use tiny moulds, allowing one for each person; and garnish prettily with green salad, and leaf-shaped pieces of pink aspic. For the quenelles, make the mixture as given for Veal Quenelles, or chicken may be used; and to half a pound, add a teaspoonful of curry paste; it should be pounded with the meat. Ox Tongue a la Cranleigh.— Required : a fresh tongue, two ounces of bacon, a small onion, a turnip, carrot, and leek, half a dozen celery stalks, a good bunch of herbs, some peppercorns and allspice berries, a gill of shorn-, and some stock, &c., as under. Cost, about Gs. 6d. First, wash the tongue, cover it with cold water, and bring it to the boil, then take it up and dry it. Put the bacon (cut in dice) in a largo stewpan, with the vegetables and spice; lay the tongue on the top, put a bnttered paper over, cover, and cook for twenty minutes, shaking tho pan often, then add half a pint of stock, as No. 4, or clear stock (No. 7 or 8) will be still better; add the sherry, cover, and cook gently for three hours, or more, according to size, basting every twenty minutes with the liquor, over the paper. Add more stock as it reduces, to keep up the quantity. When done, take the tongue up, trim it nicely, and skin it; brush it over with glaze, and put it on a dish. Reduce and skim the gravy, and mix with it half a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 2). Boil up, and pour a portion of it round the dish. Send any nicely dressed, seasonable vegetables to table, and garnish tho dish with small cooked tomatoes, mushrooms, or artichoke bottoms (sec Dressed Vegetables), together with glazed croutons, and scraped horse- radish. Ox Tongue a la Bresde.— Coat the tongue as directed for Ox Tongue a la Belgravia, using yellow jelly in place of pink. Round the base, put some Ham Butter and Sa- voury Eggs. Garnish the top of the tongue with Green Butter to form a wheel, and put over it some chopped truffle. The butter may be passed through a forcing pipe, or Curled Butter can be used. When serving the tongue, hand round somo Iced Sauce a la Dresde. Another way.—Instead of collaring the tongue, serve it in its original shape, and ornament with the same garnish, but before putting it on the dish, lay on it a bed of plainly dressed salad ; it helps to steady tho tongue. Ox Tongue, Sour (a German dish).—Required: an ox tongue, sea- soning, thickening, wine, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, from Gs. to 7s. 6d., according to garnish, &c. After trimming a fresh tongue of good size, lay it in a pan with tho following ingredients: a gill each of vinegar and light wine, a lemon in thin slices, a large onion, and morsel of garlic cut up small, a saltspoonful of ground cloves, twico as much black pepper and powderedUniversal cooRerv boor. 2G0 bay leaves, and a pincli of cay- enno. Turn and basto daily for four days, then melt in a stow- pan three or four ounces of butter; add two ounces of flour and brown it, and some bacon, minced, about four ounces; next put in a chopped onion and a grated carrot, add the liquor from the meat, after strain- ing, and somo plain stock to make up a quart. Boil up, then put in the tongue, and simmer with frequent basting for three to four hours. It may be served hot, in which easo add somo brown sauco to some of the gravy, with a glass of claret, and salt to taste; keep the tonguo warm whilo the gravy is boiled and skimmed, then dredge the tonguo with rasp- ings and pour the sauce round it. For a cold dish let it cool in the liquor, then skin, glaze, and gar- nish in the usual way. If thinly sliced, this is excellent for salad or sand- wiches ; and tho remnants will make a nice dish of potted meat, or come in for croquettes, rissoles, &c. Polish Buck.—This is a peculiar dish; those who mayhavoacquired atasto for Continental dishes in which sardines enter largely will enjoy it, but we may mention that filleted anchovies may be usod just in the same way if preferred to the sardines, llequircd : a thick slice, say an inch and a half, from a fillet of veal, some sardines (the bone- less should bo used), fat bacon, season- ing, onions, garlic, milk and butter. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. Gd. Skin the moat, beat it with a steak- beater or rolling-pin, then make holes in it with a wooden skewer, three-fourths the depth of the slice. Cut bacon into thick strips and sardines into thin ones; fill the holes, then rub tho moat over with somo sliced onion and next with a clove of garlic ; sprinkle with a half teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, tho same of salt, and a little white popper and cayenne, with a suspicion of ground mace, ltoll this up sausage shape, tie it with tape, and brush it over with clarified butter; then lay it in a stewpan with hot butter, until it is delicately browned. Put in a gill each of veal stock and milk, cover tho meat with buttered paper, and cook gently, basting sometimes, for two to two and a half hours. Then leave it until cold ; unbind, and servo in slices as a breakfast dish, garnishing with salad according to taste. Reindeer Tongue. — Before cooking, proceed as follows : —Put tho tongue in cold water for three or four hours, then leave it in an airy situa- tion until dry; soak again, and repeat the drying ; again soak and dry, making three times in all. Scrape it, and put it on to boil in cold water ; bring very slowly to the boil, with frequent skimming, and cook for throe hours or longer. Serve on a folded napkin and garnish with parsley, if for a plain dish for breakfast. For a moro elaborate one, the tongue can bo brushed over with aspic, and gar- nished in any of tho ways given for Ox Tongue. Tho remains of a tonguo may be minced, and served in any of the usual ways, or potted with somo Fio. GO.— Reindeer Tongue. ham or bacon; or, when dry, it can bo grated, and used for flavouring sauces and gravies. A nice breakfast relish can be obtained by heating thin slices of tho cooked tongue in good gravy, just to moisten, and serving with grilled tomatoes or tomato butter, or with horse-radish butter. Cost, from Is. 6d. to 2s. Salpicons in Sauce.—This is an exceedingly nice dish, and should261 made dishes AND RELEVlis. take its name from the sauce; the best is supreme, but good bechamel or veloute, or other kinds will do. Take the remains of a fowl (the whitest part), some sweetbread, tongue, and button mushrooms; all these must be cooked, and there should be equal quantities of each as nearly as possible. Put them in the sauce, enough to coat them, and make a thick mince, and when hot serve as they are, with any suitable garnish. The same mix- ture may be used for filling little vol-au-vents, &c. ; and when cold, owing to the nature of the sauce, it will be firm enough to shape into cro- quettes, small rolls, or other forms. These may be cooked in the usual way, and should be served with a little more sauce. In addition to the in- gredients named, truffles are added, or good forcemeat; all except the truffles must be in dice (that is the feature of this preparation), but the truffles may be in “ chips,” as the trimmings from sliced truffles are called. Again, game may be used instead of poultry for a similar mince. It often happens that portions of the ingredients re- quired are left over from a dinner; in such cases the dish is not extravagant, but is somewhat costly if they are purposely prepared. For an economical variety of this, a small quantity of cooked brains is sometimes used in- stead of sweetbread. Cost, variable. Sheep’s Head, Fried.—Boil a sheep's head in the usual way, after blanching it, then take the bones out, and press the head until cold. The tongue and brains will make a separate dish. Cut it into squares or fingers, and coat with thick batter, or with egg and crumbs, as preferred; fry brown, dish in a pile, and serve with vegetables as below. Boil young cairots and turnips, and some cucumber in dice, or peas in place of the latter. Cut the turnips through. Lake the insides out, leaving them like little cups; fill these with the peas, glaze the carrots, and place them round the dish; some can also be put in the centre. The meat should bo lightly fried, and well drained. Any white sauce is suitable, or a pureo of onions or celery can be served with it; or a turnip puree (using up tho portion scooped out) mixed with white sauce may be used [see Dressed Vege- tables). Cost of head, about 8d. Total cost, variable. Steak, Italian (Beef).—Re- quired : steak, butter, vegetables, wine, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. per pound, inclusive. Take two or three pounds of steak from the rump or fillet—let it be quite an inch and a half in thickness. Brown it in a stewpan with two or three ounces of butter, turning it frequently over a quick fire. When brown alike on both sides, remove the steak to a baking- pan, with a tight-fitting lid (earthen- ware pans are always used for this purpose on the Continent), and fry two medium-sized onions, sliced, a shalot, minced, and a bunch of parsley in the same butter. Add these to the steak in the pan. Add two large wineglass- fuls of port, and two breakfastcup- fuls of brown stock, with a few stalks of celery cut into pieces, two pickled gherkins, four or five cloves, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Cover down the lid tightly, that no steam may escape, and let it bake in the oven nearly an hour and a half, when put in a turnip and a carrot, quartered, and close as before. D’ the roots are young, they null be done in half an hour. Cut them into dice, and lay them over the top of the steak, which should be placed on a hot dish. Send to table with tho gravy strained over. It may be thickened slightly. Salt to taste should be added when the vegetables are put in ; a pinch may be put in after tho moat has cooked a short time. Another way.—After cooldng a beef steak of a pound or so in weight, by grilling or broiling, put it on a hot dish, and glazo it; then pour round it somo Brown Italian Sauce, and send vegetables separately to tablo. Steak, Italian, Veal. — ThpUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 262 meat may be cooked in a saute pan, or wrapped in an oiled paper and grilled, and served with White Italian Sauce. Or a thick piece may he taken from a fillet of veal, previously braised or roasted, and reheated in the sauce, and served with a garnish of small tomatoes, mushrooms, and rolls of bacon, all separately cooked. Sucking Pig, Galantine of.— Required: a sucking pig, forcemeat, seasoning, garnish, &e., as below. Bone a young pig, which, for this purpose, ought not to bo more than three weeks old. If this caunot be done at home, the butcher will do it. Lay it flat on the table, back down- wards, and spread on it alternate layers of good forcemeat, truffles, pink ham, tongue, or anything which will look and taste well when the pig is cut into. Season each layer with pepper and salt, and roll the pig tightly, binding it well with tape. It will be more succulent if a few slices of fat bacon are fastened on the outsido. Wrap it in a pudding-cloth, and simmer it gently in some good veal broth, in which may be put the bones of the pig, a large carrot, a blade of mace, twelve peppercorns, and some sweet herbs. When suffi- ciently cooked, let it cool in its own liquor, and when taken out, press it under a weight, and let it be eaten cold. Garnish the dish with aspic jelly, and salad, lemons, &c. It will be easier to make the galantine a good shape, if the head be removed. This will make another dish. Cost of pig, uncertain. Sucking Pig, Galantine of, Superior.—Spread the meat with a layer of Rich Veal Forcemeat, hard- boiled eggs in dice, truffles in slices, and chopped ham alternately: then put another layer of forcemeat. Finish off as above. Boil in stock to cover, with other ingredients, as in the pre- vious recipe ; add a gill of sherry, and some mushrooms (button ones must be used, the tinned ones do very well). Press as above, and garnish as follows : Give a plain coat of pink aspic, and sprinkle it in rows with chopped truffle, parsley, and sieved egg yolk. Pour more aspic over to set these, and garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs, whole or sliced truffles, and blocks of aspic, with plenty of fresh parsley, or other green garnish. Cost, uncertain. Sweetbreads, Calves’.—First wash them in tepid water, renewing it as required, then lay them in cold water to soak for a time. Put them on to blanch in cold water with a little salt and lemon juice ; bring this to the boil, and then rinse the sweetbreads in cold water. If they are to be braised or stewed, they can be so cooked without parboiling, but if to be fried, baked, &c., they must be cooked in stock until nearly done, for half an hour, or more, according to size. They should then be pressed between two Hat tins, with weights on the top, until cold, when they are read}', either for cook- ing whole or in slices. If to be larded for braising, &c., this pressing is necessary also. In the chapter on Hot Entrees recipes are given for the more elaborate ways of serving sweet- breads ; many can be considerably simplified by using a plainer sauce, and dispensing with expensive or trouble- some garnish. Sweetbreads, Pried.—The par- boiling process must be carefully at- tended to here, as the sweetbreads should require but little further cook- ing. They must be cool before pre- paring them for frying. This is done by flouring, and coating with Frying Batter, or by egging and crumbing; the crumbs should bo seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and cheese, or fine herbs can be added to givo variety, or according to tho sauce which is to be served with them. The fat must bo very hot, and enough to cover them, and a golden brown tinge is the darkest they should acquire. Fried parsloy and cut lemon furnish suffi- cient garnish for an ordinary dish. The sauce may bo white or brown, asMADE DISHES AND RELEVES. 263 preferred. Brown Sauce, with lemon juice to sharpen it, and a little sherry is an excellent one. Veal gravy, about as thick as good cream, and flavoured with sherry and lemon, or with herbal vinegar, is also very good; it should be pale brown only ; a little glaze and extract of meat improve it, but it should not be too strong of either. About a saltspoonful of tho extract, and a bit of glaze the size of a cherry, will suffice for two to three gills of gravy. Cost, variable. Sweetbreads, Mock. — Re- quired : a pound and a quarter of lean, raw veal, half a pound of veal kidney suet, grated lemon peel, salt and pepper, stock, sauce, bread, and eggs. Cost, about Is. 10d., exclusive of vegetables. Mince the meat and suet; soak a slice of white bread in hot white stock ; drain and beat it up finely, about a tea- cupful will be wanted ; add the meat and suet, and the seasoning; blend thoroughly, mixing in the yolk of an egg, gradually. Then use a small quantity of dry crumbs, just to shape the_ mixture, to imitate sweetbreads; coat them with beaten egg and seasoned crumbs, and fry them in hot fat to a delicate brown. Then pour round them the stock from the bread, with a little more; cook them, with frequent turning, for an hour, and add white sauce of any kind, such as could be served with veal or sweetbreads, to make up a pint and a half altogether. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with fancy shaped vegetables, or peas, or macaroni. Tripe and Eggs, Fricasseed. —Required : a pint of sauce, Parsley, or Plain White, twelve ounces of tripe, four eggs, seasoning, croutons, and vegetables. Cost, about Is. Cd. to 2s., according to the sauce. The tripe should be boiled, and left until cold, then put in milk just to cover it, with a bay leaf and a slice or two of onion, celery, and carrot; when it boils put the tripe on a dish, cover, and keep it warm over boiling water. Now strain the milk, and use it for making tho sauce. Boil tho eggs hard, quarter them lengthwise, dish them with the tripe, and pour the sauce over. Prepare some oblong croutons; spread them with a Puree oe Onions or Celery', sprinkle a little parsley over, and use them for gar- nishing. This is a Y'ery good dish; the bay leaf and vegetables improve the flavour of the tripe. Any white meat may bo served thus. For a richer dish, use a better sauce, and ■garnish the dish with any good puree of vegetables. Tripe and Liver, Fricasseed. —ITse tripe and liver, equal in weight; fry the liver in strips; cut some boiled tripe in the same way, flour it, when cold, and fry it also. Then cover with any good sauce of the brown class, or a thick brown gravy ; serve hot, and garnish with fried parsley, and little heaps of fried onions. This is a palatable combination. The tripe renders the liver more digestible, while the liver gives piquancy to the tripe. Green Gooseberry Satjce may be served with this; Cccumrer Sauce or puree is also suitable. Cost, vari- able. Veal, Blanqnette of. — Re- quired : one pound of fillet of veal, half a pint of sauce, veloute or supreme, an egg, a lemon, a truffle, some parsley, lobster coral, and potato puree, stock and seasoning. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. Skin a piece of meat three-quarters of an inch thick ; cut it into rounds or orals, then weigh the pieces; there should be a pound after trimming. Cover them with white stock No. 9, just warm ; add a strip of lemon peel, a sprig of parsley, and some white peppercorns, and stew until tender. Drain, and reduce tho stock until there is very little loft; add it to tho sauco, and season with salt and pepper, essence of nutmeg, and lemon juice. But in the veal, cover, and lcavo for half-an-hour, but it must not simmer. The potatoes should bo buked in theirUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 264 skins and converted into a rich puree, (see Dressed Vegetables). Put it in a bag with a rose pipe, and form a border on a hot dish, then pour in the moat and sauce; garnish with the parsley and truffle chopped, and sprinkle tho lobster coral on the potato. All tho garnish must he in roadinoss ; the truffle should he heated in stock, and tho parsley scalded, before chopping. Veal, Fillet of, with Ancliov ies. — Required : veal, anchovies, but- ter, and seasoning, as below. Cost,' about Is. Gd. Cut a slice from tho thick part of a fillet of veal (it should be about three-fourths of an inch in thickness) ; brush it with oil, and grill or broil it. Put two boneless anchovies in a mortar, with an equal bulk of chopped parsley, and a clove of garlic, minced; grate in the rind of half a lemon, and po-und well; then sieve, and mix with two ounces of fresh butter. Lay this on tho dish, and put the meat on the top. Serve cut lemon with it. Another way.—If a larger dish is required, cut two steaks, and cook them as described above. Prepare just double the quantity of anchovies, butter, &c. When the meat is done lay the butter on tho dish, reserving part of it; put one piece of meat on the dish, spread it with the rest of the butter, and put the other steak on tho top. A little glaze improves the moat. Beef-steak is excellent cooked as above, and the meat is delicious when cold. Sauce and salad improve it. Veal, Fillet of, Braised.— Required : a fillet of veal, four ounces of bacon, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a bunch of herbs, seasoning and stock. Cost, about Is. per pound. Cover the bottom of a braising pan with part of the bacon, sliced; the vegetables, prepared by washing, peeling, and slicing; if at hand, add a few celery stalks also, and a gill of stock made from veal bones. Make the incat firm and compact by binding it with tape; lay it on the bed of vegetables and bacon, and put the rest of the bacon on the top; add a few peppercorns, a clove or two, and put on the lid; simmer to reduce the stock, then add more stock to half tho depth of the meat; put some hot cin- ders in tho lid of the pan, and cook gently for two and a half or three hours (for five or six pounds), basting often. When done, take tho bacon from the meat, drain the latter, and put it on a hot dish; strain tho gravy, thicken it with brown roux to make it like cream in consistence, skimming it all the time it is boiling; season to taste, and add, if liked, a little light wine. If the meat is not brown enough, it can bo brushed over with glaze, and put before the fire, or in a hot oven, or put back in the pan, the lid being replenished with fresh cinders while the gravy is being made; but if it has been attended to, it will probably be brown enough. Pour the gravy round, and send to table very hot, with nicely cooked vegetables separately dished. Another way.—Send the gravy sepa- rately to table, and round the veal put a Puree of Endive, Spinach, Souuel, Cucumber, Carrots, or Mush- rooms ; or green peas, young carrots, glazed, button mushrooms, or small tomatoes, besides many other vege- tables can be used whole in tho samo way; recipes for all will be found in later chapters devoted to Vegetables. See that the drainer of the pan is kept very clean; if the holes are allowed to clog, the draining is re- tarded, and the meat will acquire an unpleasant flavour. A bone or two, or a strip of lean ham will improve the meat; they should be put under- neath, with the vegetables and bacon. Veal A la Dude.—Required: a veal cutlet of a pound, an inch in thickness, and free from skin; it should be trimmed to an oval shape; half a pound of rice, seasoning, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound, exclusive of garnish,MADE DISHES AND REDEYES. 265 Put an ounce of butter in u saute- pan, and when hot lay the veal in; cook it for ten minutes to a palo brown, then drain it. Meanwhile, wash the rieo (Patna), put it in fast boiling water with a pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of lemon juice, and boil for five minutes, then turn it into a colander, and pour plenty of cold water over. Take a clean pan, put in it half a pint of Chutney Sauce and the rice. In a second pan put another half pint of the same sauce, and the veal; cook for half an hour, letting the contents of both pans simmer only, and give them an occa- sional shake. Then take a hot dish, spread the rice on to cover it, make it smooth on the surface, and then lay the cutlet on the centre of the rice ; re- duce the sauce by boiling it sharply for a few minutes, and pour over the meat. Next, between the edge of the moat and the rice, put the following in- gredients, which must all be in readi- ness : little heaps of olive, minced, and warmed in stock; tiny tomatoes, cooked whole in stock; and little heaps of cooked ham and tongue, cut in thin shreds, and heated in the same way. Over the meat, put some chopped parsley and a dust of coralline pepper. Serve very hot. Veal Cake, — Required : two pounds of lean veal from the fillet, twelve ounces of streaky bacon, a good teaspoonfnl of salt, half as much pepper, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, half as much store sauce, the rind of half a lemon grated, a good pinch of grated nutmeg, a gill of veal stock, and a pinch of cayenne. Cost, about 23. 9d. Mince the meat and bacon very small, or pass through a machine ; add the seasoning, then the stock, and work well with the hand, just moisten- ing with cold water from time to time. Press firmly into a deep dish or tin, buttered, and tie a buttered paper over. Bake in a moderate oven, for two to two and a half hours. Turn out when cold. This is a good breakfast dish. Useful also for a picnic, or for making sandwiches, &c. Veal, Curried.—Required : two pounds of lean moat, three gills of Cukhy Sauce, a gill of cream, rice, and lemons. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Cut the veal into pieces of an inch and a half square (any gristly portions should be removed); just cover it with white stock, and cook very softly for half an hour. Then put it with the stock into the curry sauce, cover, and cook until tender. Then add the boiling cream, off the fire, with salt to taste. Serve with rice round it, and lemon in quarters. This is a very mild and delicate curry. Any other white meat can be cooked in the same way, which will be acceptable to those who find ordinary- curries somewhat hot, as the cream has a very- softening effect. Time, about an hour and a half altogether, to cook the veal. Another way.— Fry- the meat in a little hot fat, after frying an onion; add an apple and a tablespoonful of tomato pulp, an ounce of curry paste mixed with a pint of white stock (No. 9), and a little lemon juice ; put in a tablespoonful of grated cocoanut, and cook for an hour; add a teaspoonful of rice flour and a pinch of salt, cook for another half hour, then sieve the sauce, and finish off as usual. Add a little more lemon juice at tho end. The sauce must he skimmed well at starting; and in place of an apple, a tablespoonful of gooseberries can bo used. Veal, Cushion of, Braised.— Required: veal, bacon, vegetables, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound, inclusive. The cushion of veal, or the noix, as it is called in French cookery-books, is simply that part of tho leg which is covered by tho udder. It should ho separated fion the undor-purt of the fillet with a sharp knife, and tho udder should he left whole, closely adhering to the cushion in its original position. Tho sinewy parts may bo cut away. Take tho cushion thus prepared, and266 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. lard the fleshy portion evenly and neatly with strips of fat hacon. Butter a braising-pan, and cover the bottom with a layer of sliced vegetables (onions, carrots, celery, and herbs), put in the larded veal and any hones and trimmings of meat that may bo at hand, pour in as much white stock No. 9 as will just touch the surface of the veal, and braise it very gently over a slow fire. Butter a round of paper to fit the braising-pan, lay this over the meat, and cover tightly with the lid. Baste often, and stew very gently; this part of the leg needs long slow cooking. When done, brown the meat, slrim and reduce the gravy, and add a morsel of glaze or extract of meat to it. Garnish the dish with a variety of vegetables, cut in any fancy shapes, and send a rich Puhee or Sorrel or Spinach to table separately. Time, about thirty minutes per pound. Veal Cutlet, Stewed, a la Baginliurst,—Required: a cutlet, ham, sauce, broad, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Trim the cutlet into an oval shape, and saute it in a couple of ounces of hot butter. Drain and lay it in a clean stew- pan ; pass the meat that was cut from it through a mincing machine, then pound it with an equal bulkof minced ham, raw; season, and stir in some bread crumbs soaked in stock, and squeezed dry; thero should be a largo tablespoonful of each; add some of the yolk of a raw egg, and make into tiny rolls, like sausages, an inch long; Baute these in the butter also, for ton minutes. Then set aside, add to the veal cutlet half a pint of thin brown sauce mixed with the juice of half a lemon, and a little of the grated rind; a teaspoonful each of mushroom ketchup and tarragon vinegar, and half a glass of light wine. Stew gently for an hour, turning a time or two, and basting with the gravy. Then lay the little rolls round the cutlets, and give a quarter of an hour’s further cooking, keeping them turned constantly. Have a hot dish ready, lay on it a fried crouton, the size and thickness of the cutlet; put the latter on, and brush with glaze; arrange the rolls round, leaning on tho crouton; put a slice of lemon between each, and then boil up the gravy ; skin, and pour it round the crouton. Veal, Fricandeau of.—For this dish—a segment of veal, larded and stewed, with hacon, sliced vege- tables, sweet herbs, and seasonings— we are indebted to the age of Leo X. Fio. 07.— Fricandeau of Veal. The following recipe will ho found excellent:—Take about three pounds of the fat, fleshy side of a fillet of veal, of the best quality, or a slice about four inches thick. With one stroke of the knife cut it oven, trim it into an oblong or oval shape, then lard it thickly and evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Slice two carrots, two turnips, and two onions, and put these into the centre of a stewpan with two or three slicos of hacon, tho trimmings of the meat, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay loaves, and a little white pepper. Put the fricandeau on the vegetables, and pour in about a pint of stock. Cover the stewpan closely, and let its contents come slowly to tho boil, then stew very gently by the side of the fire or in the oven, till the meat is quite tender. Baste frequently with its liquor. A short time before it is to be served take it up and put it into a well-heated oven to crisp the bacon. Strain the gravy, skim tho fat from it, boil quickly, and add a little glaze, and baste the fricandeau with it till it looks bright and glossy. Serve with the larded surface uppermost, in the centre of a267 MADE DISHES AND RELEVES Puree of any vegetables that are in season—Sorrel, Spinach, Endive, As- paragus, Peas, &c. If liked, the gravy may be simply strained, skimmed, and poured over the meat, and then the dish is frieandeau with gravy. Some- times as a matter of economy the lean part of the best end of a large neck of veal is used instead of the prime part of the leg, and does nearly as well. Truffles, mushrooms, and arti- choke bottoms may all be served with this dish. Time, thirty to forty minutes per pound, according to thick- ness. Add salt as soon as the meat is tender, not before. Cost, variable. Veal, Haricot.—Required : veal, gravy, vegetables, bacon, forcemeat, Ac., as below. Cost of meat, about 9d. per pound. Take the best end of a small neck of veal. Shorten the bones, and divide the meat into cutlets. Put them into a stew- pan, pour over a pint of good brown gravy, and let it simmer gently. Boil in a separate saucepan a pint of freshly- gathered and shelled young peas, half a pint of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, a small cauliflower, divided into sprigs, half a dozen yonng onions, a sliced cucumber, a cab- bage lettuce cut into quarters, or any other suitable vegetables. Before the haricot is served, put the vege- tables with the veal, and let all simmer gently together for ten minutes. Put the veal on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, and garnish with Forcemeat Balls. Send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. If more convenient, some of these vegetables may be omitted, and it should be remembered that somo kinds will need to boil longer than others, according to their nature and age. The appearance of the veal will bo improved if it is brightly browned in hot fat before being stewed, and a little acid will improve its flavour for many. Time to simmer the veal alone, about an hour and a half. The liquor from the vegetables will make nice soup. Veal in Jelly.—Required: two pounds of cooked veal, four eggs, four ounces Of boiled ham, a quarter pint of freshly picked sin-imps, a pint and a half of aspic jelly, and half a dozen veal sausages; garnish as below. Cost, about 4 s. 6d. Line a plain, deep mould, round or oval, with a thin layer of aspic; set on ice, then decorate the bottom and sides with the ham in strips, some leaves of chervil, a few shrimps, and the white of one of the eggs, first boiled hard, and cut into rings or thin shreds. Set this with a little more aspic. Then fill the mould up with the rest of the shrimps, eggs in slices, veal in dice, the sausages, previously eooked, skinned, and sliced, and some chervil or parsley. The whole should bo put in in layers, and aspic added, and allowed to set after each layer. Turn out when cold, and garnish with watercress, shrimps, and cut lemons. Or some savoury eggs (for which recipes are given in a later chapter) may be cut in halves and placed round the mould, each half resting in a little bed of dressed salad. They should bo placed alternately, i.e. the white side, then the inside. Over the white a pinch of lobster coral has a pretty' effect; the savoury' insido needs no decoration. This is an excellent dish for an al fresco gathering, as it is quickly' served, and most inviting in appearanco. Veal in Jelly (German).—Re- quired : a shoulder of veal, some ham and bacon, vegetables and herbs of the usual kinds for braised meat, a gill of white wine, a pint and a half of white stock (use the bone, and make this as given in stock No. 9), the juice of half a lemon,, and seasoning to taste. Cost, about Is. per pound, inclusive. Cut the bacon in slices ; make a bed of it in a stowpan with the vegetables; lay the meat on a board and roll it up, making it into a nice oval shape, then tie and make holes in it with a skewer. Cut the ham in strips (it should bo rather fat), season these, and push them in the holes. Cover with a buttered paper, after laying the meat in thoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 268 pan with, the liquid ingredients, and cook for three hours, hasting now and then over the paper. Brown the meat after draining1 and sot asido to cool. Meanwhile, reduce the gravy, and skim it well ; let it cool, then remove any fat and add a little dissolved gelatine in hot weather; strain it through a cloth and colour it with beetroot juice a deep rod. When the moat is cold, take oil' the binding, and coat the surface thoroughly with the jelly, letting each layer sot before the n ixt is added. Cut up any surplus jolly into shapes, and use them with slices of beetroot and lemon, and pickled cherries or plums for garnish- ing. Other joints may be boned, and similarly treated. Veal in Tomato Juice, American.—Required : a pound of veal, small chops, or a largo cutlet as convenient, half a pint of juice from cannod tomatoes, some bacon, season- ing, and watercress. Cost, about Is. 9d. Molt a bit of butter in a pan, put tin moat in, and turn it every minuto for ten minutes until brown, then pour the fat off, wipe out the pan and put in the tomato juice with a little salt, popper, and lemon juice. Lay the veal in and stow for twenty minutes. Season some small pieces of bacon with pepper and chopped herbs, roll them up, and broil them until crisp, l’ut the moat on a hot dish, boil the sauce quickly for a minute with a littlo white thickening, and pour it over, then lay the bacon round, with w atercress salad between. Note.—The exact time for the cooking of the meat can only be determined by its thickness and quality. 11 may tako thirty or forty minutes to stow. Veal Olives.—Required : slices of moat from tho fillet, three inches long, and two wide ; bacon cut in the same way, rich forcemeat, some olives, gravy, &c. Cost, about 3s. for a dish of nine. Tho meat must bo thin ; bat out the pieces, put tho bacon on, then the force- meat (see Forcemeats) ; stone the olives and put in tho hollows some chopped capers; lay ono on each, roll up, and tie with thin twine or tape. ' Put them into boiling veal stock to cover, and let them simmer for an hour very slowly. A squeeze of lemon should bo added, and the olives turned about as required. Tako them up and pour over some thick Bechamel to coat them with; sprinkle some with lobster coral, others with chopped tarragon, chervil, or parsley (a pinch only of tarragon, the flavour is strong), and the rest with trulilc. Reduce tho gravy they were cooked in, add a littlo thick Celery Pcree, or mushroom, artichoke, or asparagus may bo used, then pour it round tho veal and garnish with stoned olives or button mushrooms. Veal, Roasted (a French recipe).—Take a piece of three or four pounds, loin, neck, or any part; lard it, and put it in a marinade of oil, sliced onion, tarragon and chervil, powdered mace, and vinegar equal in moasuro to the oil; turn and baste now and then, and leave for six hours; cover with buttered paper, roast and baste with the marinade. Take tho paper off for the moat to brown, mako gravy in the pan and pour round tho moat, and send a sorrel or spinach puree to table with it. If tho flavour is liked, some leaves of tarragon may b’o put in with the larding needle, as well as tho bacon, and tarragon sauce may ho served with it. Cost, variable. Veal Roasted, with. Sauce Supreme.—Required : veal, sauce, and vegetables. Cost, varying with tho part selected, &c. Roast any part of veal, to a pale brown. When done pour the sauce all round it. Heat some artichoke bottoms; hollow them a little, anl fill up with Peas Puuke, Rich. Place these round tho dish, with small Braised Carrots in between them. If from the neck or breast, the meat may be cut up, and dished round a puree of peas, with the artichoke bottoms put in a ring round tho meat.MADE DISHES AhTD RELEVEg. 2G0 In this case, some of tho sauco, left white, should he poured over the meat; and more, coloured a pale green, is required for the artichoke bottoms. It should he thick, just to coat them. This is a very good dish, and if the meat is boned it can be served as an entree. A pint of sauce will be wanted for about two and a half pounds of meat. VealRoularde,—Required: veal, bacon, eggs, gherkins, bread, seasoning, and garnish, as below. Cost, variable, according to the garnish, &c. Bone a breast of veal without cutting the upper meat; beat it well with a roll- ing pin, then mix the following ingre- dients : half a pound each of lean veal and bacon, passed through a sausage machine, a chopped shalot, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, the samo of capers, a pinch each of winter savoury, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pep- per, the same of thyme, a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, a pickled gherkin in strips, and the yolks of three eggs. Spread this over the veal, then proceed exactly as for Polish Buck, but giving longer time, about three hours; more if a large breast. When ready to serve, the meat may be glazed, or coated with aspic, after trimming the ends of the roll. Gar- nish with fancy blocks of aspic, and little heaps of dressed salad, with some olives, capers, and pickled gherkins, cut into strips. This is a German recipe. It is a good breakfast dish, plainly served; garnished as above, it is excellent for tennis parties, &c. Directions for boning are given in the next chapiter. Veal, with Chestnuts. (Are Bp.r.r, with Chestnuts). — Substi- tute veal for beef, and cook it by braising, or lay it in a buttered sauli piaa, squeeze some lemon juice over, cover with buttered paper, and took in a moderate oven. Then lay it on a hot dish, and coat it with thick Bechamel. Boil the chestnuts until both skins will come off, then cover with white stock, and finish off as in the recipe above referred to, but add a small quantity of White Sauce or cream, or an ounce of butter, to each pound. The mixture should be coloured pink. Cream Sauce is very good with this, and if made thick it can he used for masking the veal. Veal a la Guernsey, — Re- quired : a fillet of veal, some sauco, and garnish as under. Cost, about lid. per pound, exclusive of sauco, kc. Tho meat may be braised or roasted, as preferred, but must not be cut while hot. Place it on a dish for serving, and glaze it with pale, thin glaze; then put fancy shapes of Tomato Aspic on the top, with Green Butter between, to form any pretty design ; put a rim of curled green butter all round tho edgo of tho meat, and sprinkle it with tomato aspic, chopped very small. Glaze the sides of the meat, and put a border of plainly-dressed green salad all round, with Tomatoes a la Gueuxsey hero and there amongst it, and blocks of yellow aspic in between. Make some Sauce a la Guernsey (double the quantity given in the recipe) ; freeze as directed, and serve on a separate dish. If more convenient, a shoulder of veal may bo boned, and substituted for the fillet. The latter must ho very tightly rolled and bound after boning, or it will lose its shape, and bo unsightly when cut. Veal a la Pousfoate.— Re- quired : two pounds of veal, breast cu' neck, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a dozen little onions, the same number of young carrots and turnips, a bunch of herbs, a clove of garlic, threo tomatoes, stock and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. Gd. Cut the meat in pieces of an inch and a half square, cook in the oil for a short time until browned a little, then drain; lay in a stewpan, with tho peeled onions, and scraped carrots, tho tomatoes in dice, herbs, and a pint of stock from veal or chicken bones ; cover, and cook for an hour, then put in tho270 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. turnips, and cook for another hour; add salt to taste, and moro stock, thiokonod with wliitc roux, and sea- Boned. Servo altogether on a hot dish. Veal a la Ransforde.— Cook tho meat as above, but instead of putting carrots and turnips in, proceed as follows :—Divide somo turnips,scoop out the halves cup-shaped, cook them carefully, and till them with shredded carrot, separately cooked, and minced truffle, heated in wine or stock. Before tilling, tho turnips should be coated with white sauce. For this dish, tho meat may bo from any part of the calf. Veal, Breast of, Stuffed and Stewed.— Roquirou : a breast of veal, a sweetbread, some forcemeat, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Tako some rich veal forcemeat ; add tho sweetbread, finely minced; raiso the skin, and put tho mix- ture under, in a thin layer only; sow tho edges, and put tho meat in a stewpan. Pour in half a pint of veal stock (see No. 9), and any odds and ends of poultry that are available ; add a gill of white wine, cover with a paper buttered on the upper sido; put tho lid on, and cook for an hour and a half. Then add somo button mush- rooms and young carrots (failing these, some old ones must be cut to imitate young ones, but then longer time is needed); cook until the carrots are done, take tho meat up, and lay it on a hot dish; pour some thick Bechamel or Supreme Sauce over, and sprinkle it with chopped truffle, parsley,and grated ham or tongue, in a pattern, Reduco the gravy, season and thicken a little ; pour it "round, and garnish with tho vegetables. A breast of lamb is equally good thus prepared; peas can bo used instead of carrots. Veal, Fillet of, in Jelly.— Required: a fillet of veal, aspic, and other garnish, ns undermentioned. Cost of meat, about Is. per pound. Stuff a fillet of veal, and roast it well, but keep it a pale brown only. The shapo should bo compact; to ensure this, bind it with broad tape, and tie greased muslin over to protect tho stuffing. After cooking, leave in a cool plaeo until quite cold, then tako off tho tape, and coat the meat with liquid aspic; sprinkle so as to form a pattern, with chopped parsley and sieved egg yolk when tho jelly is firm, then pour more jolly over to set tho garnish. Trim the meat round tho bottom from any jolly, put it on a clean dish, and garnish with tho following, placing them in the order named :—Small raw tomatoes, fancy shaped blocks of aspic, slicod an inch thick, beetroot (cut with a small round, crimped cutter), and little heaps of dressed green salad. Cut some eggs, boiled hard, into quarters, and put them (yolk side up) on small, oval slices of ham or tonguo; place these about tho dish to form an outer border, with a little chopped aspic between tho slices, and servo for any cold collation, as ball supper, or for a tennis or other al fresco party. Venison, Hashed, Plain.—See various recipes given for mutton; or make somo plain gravy (see Gravy for Hashes), and season and colour it rather moro highly than for mutton. Heat tho meat without boiling, and serve in the usual way. Venison, Hashed, Rich. — Required : meat sauce, wine, and gar- nish, as below. Cost, variable, about 2s. 6d. Make brown sauce No. 2 ; add a glass of wine to a gill of strong mutton stock; pour this over two pounds of cold venison in neat slices; cover, and leave for an hour with a seasoning of nutmeg, cloves, and cayenno. Then put all into the sauce, just enough to cover, and when hot through serve. Garnish tho dish with croutom. and place one on tho top with a plated skewer. Some cray-tish or prawns can also bo used for garnish. si not her uni/.—Use any nice gravy or sauce given for game; or make a thickened gravy from stock No. 16271 COLD ENTREES. or 17; heat the meat in it, and serve with a garnish of Glazed Mushrooms or Fried Potatoes. Put little crou- tons in between, first coating them with glaze and melted jelly ; red or black currant, or tomato will do. Venison, Jugged.—Required : venison, a marinade, stock, wine, roux, seasoning, &c. Cost, variable. Cut up the meat, and put in a marin- ade as given for Roast Hare. For each pound of the meat, allow half a pint of stock No. 5, a tablespoonful of red wine, a good teaspoonful of brown roux, sea- soning, &c., as for Jugged Hare. Boil up the stock, put the meat in, with the seasoning, &c.; cook until tender in a jar set in a pot of boiling water, or in a gentle oven. Then take the meat out, and thicken the gravy (after straining) with the roux ; add the wine (after the gravy bas boiled and been skimmed), then pour it over the meat. The marinade should be added to the stock for cooking the venison. Garnish with cut lemons and small round croutons spread with dissolved jelly; red currant or tomato can be used. A Cherry Salad can be served with this; or a dish of sweet pickles of any kind. Venison, Jugged (Plain).— Cut up any part of the meat, and sim- mer in some stock made from venison or mutton bones; or use stock No. 5 if at hand; a few vegetables, and a bunch of herbs, with a clove or two, and 6ome allspice berries should bo added. When tender, skim, thicken, and add salt to the gravy ; pour it over the meat, on a hot-water dish, if possible, and serve with French beans, or nicely-cooked floury potatoes, and currant jelly. Cost, variable. Venison Steaks, Grilled.— The steaks should be from the leg or loin, and at least an inch thick. Make the gridiron very hot, lay the meat on, and expose to fierce heat for a few seconds, to close the pores on both sides; then turn every two minutes, and cook more gradually, for twenty minutes or thereabouts. A little pepper should be put on the meat, but no salt. The gridiron must be greased, or the meat may be oiled. Have a dish ready heated, and serve with a. pat of butter only; or with a spoonful of currant j elly dissolved in port; or any sauce can be served separately (see recipes for the sauces to be served with game and dark meats). Some- times thin slices of lemon are put on the meat, towards the end of tho cooking, and served with it. We can also recommend Brown Sauce, flavoured with orange juice, and lime or lemon juice mixed; or orange juice with a dash of Madeira or sherry will be preferred by some. (See also Gravy for Venison.) Cost, variable. COLD ENTREES. Cot d entrees are now very popular, and it is likely that their popularity will increase, for the points in their favour are many. The scope which they afford for variety and decoration is great, and no dish will more readily ternpt tho appetite in warm weather than a nicely prepared cold entree, while their cost need not lie excessive. In many cases, where forethought holds sway, a very small quantity of meat or poultry, with suitable decorative media, and some good sauce, may readily be’trans- formed into a really dainty dish of this class. For, although in tho concoction of cold entrees, a number of ingredients are enumerated, the quantity of each is sometimes so minute as to be hardly worth con- sideration ; and it is just the morsel of truffle, pinch of lobster coral,272 UNIVERSAL CdOKERi? BOOIf. sprig of chervil, or an ounce or two of savoury butter, as the case may be, that raises the dish above the commonplace, to the rank of an entrco proper. The list of dishes given under this heading may seem somewhat short; the reason for this may bo readily explained by the fact that they aro selected by way of illustration only, mainly because, in so many other chapters, hosts of dishes equally suitable for the entree course will be found. Amongst others, we may instance dressed fish, salads of all sorts (the most elaborately dressed ones), small savoury pastries, aud iced souffles of the savoury order; besides which, a number of game and poultry dishes may become entrees by the addition of a little suitablo garnish; while some of the hot entrees will readily suggest themselves as suitable for serving in the cold state, to those who are accustomed to what may be termed “ decorative cookery; ” garnish must, of course, bo added at discretion. In speaking of the scope afforded by cold entrees for the exercise of the decorative powers of the cook, a word of warning on this point may not be out of place. Some err on the side of over-elaboration, and it should be remembered that the dish itself should always stand out, so to speak, clearly from the garnish; whereas, it is sometimes difficult to determine which is the entree and which the garnish. Then, every- th) ug which can be called in any way a concomitant of the dish, should be eatable. “ Of course, everybody knows that,” says the experienced cook. The novice may not know it, however, aud we have hoard so- callea good cooks declare that it does not matter about the taste of certain garnishing media, notably aspic, because nobody eats it. This is a sweeping assertion, and calculated to mislead. As a matter of fact many people do not eat aspic, and all which comes under the head of savoury jelly, but some do, and find it very refreshing and palatable; aud guests ought to be able to assume safely, that sufficient care has been exercised in the preparation of such dishes as to render them fit to eat; the experience of many will, however, prove the contrary to be true. We would boro point out that all the dishes we aro now dealing with, and referring to as entrees, can be served for ball suppers, alfresco gather- ings, and cold collations generally; indeed, whenever a spread of pretty dishes is required. Others will be found under Eggs. In conclusion, we would draw attention to what is, perhaps, the greatest advantage of cold entrees, viz., the facilities they afford for getting some of the dishes out of hand early in the day. This, in a house where the cook works perhaps single - handed, aud is inexperienced, and therefore unable to cope with the difficulties of dishing up, is not to bo despised. The worry of sending to table several hot dishes in perfection, in rapid succession, is greater than can bo imagined by those who have every facility for the cooking and serving of a large dinner; and to reduce tho hot dishes even by one, is often quite a boon. For tho various adjuncts to cold entrees, reference must bo made to tho index: tho majority aro given under Garnishes, Adjuncts to Entrees, &c. ; others aro in Forcemeats, Dressed Vegetables, &c.273 COLD entrees. Ballotines of Hare, with Cherry Salad.— Required.: hare, forcemeat, sauce, and garnish, as be- low. Cost, variable. The legs of a hare will make a small dish ; they should be boned, then filled wit h any game forcemeat, or with a puree of foie gras or game; or a rich mushroom forcemeat can be used; it should be mixed with a few pieces of cooked sweetbread or brains, if possible. The legs should then be sewn up, and braised in stock for an hour or more. When cold, cut them into slices, and mask with good supreme or bechamel sauce, or with white chaudfroid; let it set, then pour some liquid aspic over ; this should be pale pink or deep yellow. Trim the edges when firm, and dish straight down a block of aspic cream, of a contrasting colour—a white one if pink aspic is used, or a pale green looks pretty. Put little heaps of the cherry salad down thesides, withblocks of aspic cream, or clear aspic jelly in between. Prepare a ballotine of rabbit in the same way. Or, if liked, either can be braised, then finished off in the oven, and masked with brown chaudfroid only. Ballotines of Pheasant (see recipes under Forcemeat).—Stuff the legs of one or more pheasants with any rich forcemeat; braise as above, and when cold slice them, and brush over with thin glaze; then sprinkle with chopped jelly, truffles, and chopped white of egg, with here and there a pinch of chopped chervil and tarragon. Dish straight down a block of rice, and garnish with cherry or currant salad. Cost, variable. Ballotines of Turkey.—Re- quired : turkey, forcemeat, stock, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, variable. Bone, the legs of a turkey, and stuff thorn with veal or herb forcemeat; sew the skin over to keep in the farce, and sprinkle the outside with lemon juice; then tie up in buttered rnuslin, and boil in white stock until quite tender. When cold, take the skin off, slice them, and pour some white sauce over —supreme is best. Let this set, then garnish the top with ham butter, using a bag with a leaf pipe ; or take a rose pipe, and form a rose in the centre, with leaves of chervil round it. Cut some slices of lemon and beetroot, and divide some hard-boiled eggs in quarters; ornament the latter on the yolks with ham butter. Take an aspic border made in a fancy mould (see Garnishes) ; arrange the slices of turkey on the top, and put between the slices some of the lemon and beetroot. Put a dressed salad in the middle, and lay the eggs in a pattern on tho top. Put more lemon and beetroot round the base of the border. Another way.—Instead of a border of aspic, take one of salad mayon- naise in aspic; lay the meat on as above, and put a beetroot salad in the centre (supposing a pale salad to have been used for the mould). Garnish the base with eggs, lemons, and beetroot; or in place of beetroot, use little rounds of ham and tongue, coated with aspic or chaudfroid. It is very necessary that only young birds be used for the above, or any similar dish. Bombay Creams, Iced.—Re- quired : two eggs, a small tomato, an onion, a teaspoonful of mulligatawny paste, a gill of white stock (No. 9), a gill of whipped cream, a teaspoonful of Bombay chutney, colouring, season- ing, and six ounces of any cooked white meat, or poultry. Cost, about Is. 8d. Peel and mince the onion ; fry it in hot butter, then drain ; add the pulp of the tomato, paste, stock, ehutnoy, with a pinch of cayenne, and grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Cook until all can be passed through a hair sieve; then stir in the sieved yolks and whites of the eggs, first boiled hard, tho meat, pounded and sieved, or very finely minced, and a little yellow colouring. Whip tho cream stiffly; add it lightly ; then fill some little paper cases—round, square, or oval—using a bag and pipe, and making tho mixture stand higherUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 274 than the edge of the cases. Cut some chillies into shreds, and chop some pistachios and French gherkins ; sprinkle these over the surface, and set tho cases in an ice cave for half-an- hour, or rather more. Bombay Cutlets, Iced.—Make a mixture as for Bombay Creams, Iced. Add a little strong aspic to it, just to set it when cold; this can ho tested by pouring some on a plato. Spread tho mass in a smooth layer, on a baking sheet with turned-up edges, and set it by until cold and firm. Then cut out with a cutlet cutter. Put a small quantity of mayonnaise in a cutlet- shaped paper case; mix a little green salad with it, then put in one of the cutlets, with more mayonnaise on the top. Proceed until all the cutlets are used up, then set the cases in an ice cave for half an hour; dish them on a lace paper, and garnish with green salad. Should any difficulty be ex- perienced in detaching tho cutlets (or any similar ones) from the tin, wring a cloth out of hot water, and place it underneath for a few seconds, taking care that it is not left long enough for the cutlets to get warm and run. Cost, about 3s. per dozen. Bombes de Foie Gras.—Lino some bomle moulds (see page 146) with pale yellow aspic ; put about it some star shapes of truffle, rings of white of egg, poached, and little strips of French gherkin; set the garnish with another layer of aspic; then put some brown chaudfroid sauce at the bottom of the moulds, and fill up with foie gras (free from fat), divided into small pieces, and pour in more aspic to set it. Turn out when quite firm, each on to a cooked artichoke bottom, coated with becha- mel, or coloured chaudfroid sauce. Put some chopped aspic and fancy slices of truffle about the dish, with little piles of cooked beetroot in dice shapes. The moulds should hold about half a gill. Bombes (or Darioles) of Game.—Line bomle, or plain dariole moulds with tomato aspic, thinly; when set, put in a puree of game (as directed for Canapes de Game en Meringue), and pour more aspic over; turn out when set, and garnish tho tops with chopped pale aspic, and truffles. Have some slices of ripe tomatoes, rather larger than tho moulds; coat them with sauce, brown chaudfroid for choice; set a bombe on each, and servo on a flat dish, with little piles of red currants on slices of dressed cucumber as garnish. (See Bed Currants, Spiced, in Sweet Pickles). Cost, variable. Canapes de Foie Gras en Meringue.—Kequircd : custard, foie gras, eggs, sauce, quenelles, salad, and aspic. Cost, about 3s. 6d. per dozen, or more. First make a savoury custard with half a pint of stock No. 16, the yolks of four eggs, and a pinch of salt and cayonne (see Savoury Cus- tards in Garnishes for the method). When cold and set, cut it in round slices, two inches in diameter. Cut some foie gras in small pieces; moisten it with brown sauce, and lay a little heap on each round of custard. Then boat up the whites of four eggs, with a pinch of cayenne and salt; when stiff, put it over tho foie gras from a bag and pipe, sprinkle with fried crumbs, and hold a heated salamander over to lightly brown tho surface. Put tho canapes on a dish, and garnish with more of the custard, cut into fancy shapes; and some small game or chicken quenelles, coloured pink, and little heaps of salad and chopped aspic. The meringue should entirely cover the custard rounds ; and tho salamander should be held a distance above, to cook as well as colour the meringue; otherwise it would have a raw taste. Canapes de Game en Merin- gue.—Required : game, sauce, jelly, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Make a puree of game by mixing six oimces of sieved cooked game (any kind), with a tablespoonful each275 COLD ENTREES. of tomato conserve and brown sauce, and a teaspoonful of rod currant jelly. Proceed as above directed, but coat with brown chaudfroid sauco before tho meringue mixture is put on. Dish and garnish as above, and sprinkle the tops with corallino pepper. Cannelons of Beef, with Iced Sauce.—Required : beef, stock, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, varying with the garnish. Cut some thin slices from a fillet of beef: bat them out and stuff them with any suitable forcemeat. Roll and tie them up, and braise instock; each should be in a little piece of muslin ; then leave until cool, untie, and glaze them. Set them upright round a dish, and put some Iced Sauce a la Barbe, or other kind preferred, on the top. It may be cut in a round, or some little dice shapes may be piled up. Put a border of the same sauce, also in tiny dice, round the base of each. Tho centre of the dish can be filled up with a cronstade of bread, or a block of rice ; either must be coated with chopped aspic, or with a nice vegetable salad; or some artichoke bottoms, masked with white sauce, and garnished with little blocks of the iced sauce, can be used. Cannelons of mutton can be simi- larly served; this dish will suggest others of the same kind. Cannelons of Veal, with Iced Sauce.—Prepare some small cannelons of veal as above directed, using rich mushroom, veal, or other forcemeat preferred. Roll and tie them up, and cook in white stock flavoured with vegetables. When cold, mask with veloute or supreme sauce, and sprinkle with alternate rows of sieved ,;gg yolk, grated ham or tongue, and coralline pepper. Serve with a tomato salad in the centre of the dish, with a border of Iced Sauce a i.a Baiuib round the salad. Lay the cannelons on, or round the border, and garnish with sprigs of chervil and chopped aspic. Chartreuse of Chicken and Tomatoes.—Required : aspic, toma- toes, eggs, beetroot, cucumber, salad, a chicken, puree, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. to 4s., according to garnish, &c., and the season. Line a plain Charlotte mould, round or oval, thinly, with pale aspic. Cut ripe tomatoes in thin slices, and uso them, together with shreds of hard- boiled white of eggs, fancy shapes of beetroot and cucumber, and chervil or other green salad, for decorating the bottom and sides of the mould; any pattern, according to fancy, may be formed. Set this garnish with a second layer of aspic, and when firm, fill up with a creamy puree of chicken. This is to be made with the white meat of a braised or boiled chicken, pounded after chopping, then minced with a little butter, seasoned delicately, and moistened with thick bechamel and cream ; about a gill and a half to half a pint of chicken mixture. The whole should be blended over ice before it is put in the mould, and tho cream should be beaten until stiff. The top should be made level with a palette knife, and coated with more aspic; and the mould set in an ice cave until the contents will turn out firmly. The garnish should consist of small green salad, aspic, chopped and in little blocks or leaves, and the yolks of the eggs that were boiled for the interior garnish, together with beetroot or cucumber; and by using aspic of various colours the dish is more effective. Any white of egg left over can also be used up ; lemons are a suitable addition; or olives can be employed. The dish may be varied to taste. (See Coloured Plate, No. 3.) Chicken and Ham Cutlets.— These may be simple or elaborate, economical or costly, just according to tho kind of sauce used and the garnish employed. Tho foundation is cold ham and fowl, and white sauco to hold them together. Cut thin slices of ham, lean and mild, and see that no gristle or skill is left on tho fowl. Dip tho slices in white sauco, and put a layer of each on a baking sheet: first fowl, then hum,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 576 then fowl again; put a layer of sauce over all, and smooth it; then leave until cold, when a cutlet cutter, or an oval cutter (plain or crimped), should he used for stamping out the pieces. A little more sauce should then be spread round the edges. A small piece of pipe macaroni will serve for the bone, and a centre ornament of truffle, or the skin of a pickled walnut, with a sprinkling of lobster coral round, has a pretty effect; or the simple addition of some pickled gherkins or cucumber with the skin of a bright chilli or cap- sicum is not to be despised, while even a sprinkling of chopped parsley will serve to take off the “ bare look.” Remember that the whiter the sauce, the nicer the cutlets. These may now be dished on a flat border of savoury custard, pink or green, with a salad in the middle; or they can be put in the centre of an aspic border, decorated in various ways (see Garnishes) ; then some garnish should be put outside the border; this should consist of the same materials used for the interior. Chicken Mayonnaise, in Shells.—Required : chicken, mayon- naise, salad, and garnish. Cost, from 2s. Gd. to 3s. per dozen on an average. Mix together some minced cooked chicken, and mayonnaise (the meat only requires to be thickly coated with the sauce). First put a little heap of dressed salad in each shell; cover with the above mixture, and level the surface with a knife. Rut some fancy shapes—as leaves or stars—of tomato aspic round the edge of each shell, and cover the centre with chopped truffle and parsley, or with sieved egg yolk and cooked ham or tongue, either grated or sieved. Tile on a dish covered with a lace paper. Another way.—Mix the chicken with pink mayonnaise ; smooth the surface, then ornament it with ham butter and green butter round the edge, and put a little pile of chopped capers and beetroot in the middle. Chicken Mayonnaise, with Quenelles.—Required : aspic, aspic cream, chicken as above, quenelles, and garnish. Cost, variable, about 4 s. to 5s. Line a border mould thinly with pink aspic; when set, fill up with yel- low aspic cream, put in a cool place until firm, then turn out, and fill the middle with chicken mayonnaise (sec recipe above). Make some chicken quenelles, moulded; coat them with pink aspic, and put them round the base of the mould, and place a few on the top, intermixed with slices of tongue, cut in fancy shapes; truffles, in crescents or stars; and slices of cucumber, cut with a crimped cutter. This is a very effective dish if the ingredients arc tastefully arranged. Co quill es of Beef.—Required: beef, foie gras, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, about 3s. per dozen. Mix some braised or roasted beef with a fourth its weight of foie gras; pass through a fine mincing machine, and then moisten with brown sauce No. 2. Take some china or plated shells; put a teaspoonful of horse-radish sauce in each, fill up with the beef, and level the tops. Then coat them with pink chaudfroid, and garnish with horse- radish butter from a bag and pipe, to form any pretty design, so that the pink shows between. Serve piled on a dish covered with a lace paper. Coquilles of Mutton. — Re- quired : mutton, mint sauce, aspic, salad, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. Gd. per dozen shells. Cut some lean, cooked mutton into dice shapes. Mix some good mint sauce with strong liquid aspic; the latter should be twice the usual strength, then equal measures of the two can be used. Stir them together over ice until on the point of setting, then pour into a shallow mould, and set on ice until Ann, when it must be turned out, and cut in dice the size of the meat. Ar- range some cucumber salad at the bottom of some shells,as above described; fill up with the meat and sauce, and pom- salad cream over all. Chop moreCOLD ENTREES. 277 of the sauce, and put a little heap in the centre of the cream, with tomatoes in little squares, dressed with oil, &c., as for salad, all round. Serve as cold as possible. Braised meat is better than any other for this dish. Cream cf Chicken and Ham. —Take a square copper baking-sheet with turned-up edges, and line it with tomato aspic. Mix a puree of ham and chicken (see Ham and Chicken Pc itee. Iced), with a little chopped parsley; spread it over the aspic when set. Coat with more aspic, then set on ice until cold. Garnish the top with alternate rows of green butter and egg butter, using a bag and pipe. Leave a clear space between the garnish, so that the cream can bo cut neatly into squares. Serve one to each person. They may be on little plates, or in paper cases. Garnish with chopped tomato aspic, or small salad. Cost, variable. Cutlets in Aspic Cream.— Required : seven or eight lamb cutlets (or veal can be used in the same way), some sauce, asparagus puree, and gar- nish as under. Cost of meat, about 3s. Grill the cutlets, and leave them until cold. Put a pile of iced aspa- ragus puree in the centre of the dish, an t put the cutlets round it. Prepare some aspic cream (see Cold Sauces) and whip it over ice for a short time; then ornament the cutlets with it, and put some round the base. Cutlets in Chervil Cream.— F r this, a piece of lamb or veal, either roasted or braised, may be used. It should be left until cold before it is divided into cutlets. Substitute chervil cream 'see Coi.d Sauces) for that given above, and use it in the same way. In the centre, put some whole dressed asparagus (sec Dressed Vegetables), the best part only; every bit of the hard stalk must be removed. This should be placed in a border of rice, high enough to keep it in shape; the cutlets resting against the border. Fancy slices of cut lemon and little blocks of aspic should bo used as garnish. For the rice border see Garnishes ; if preferred, a border of aspic can bo used in place of rice. Cutlets, with Queen’s Own Sauce.—Take as many cutlets as may be required; they may be mut- ton, lamb, or veal, and grilled, fried, or broiled ; or braised meat is equally good. Lay each singly in an oval paper case, on a bed of cress and shredded lettuce, or any other salad preferred; mask with bechamel or supreme sauce; then ornament the top with queen’s own sauce (see pago 112). Garnish the surface with chopped parsley and coralline pepper; or the sauce may he coloured pink, and sprinkled with chopped truffles. Cost, variable. Duckling, with Fruit Salad. —Required : duck, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, variable, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. The breast of a duck is required for this, and one that has been braised is to be preferred to a roasted one. Slice it when cold, and see that the slices are even in size. Dip each into tomato sauce, made by mixing the pulp of a ripe tomato or two with sherry and glaze, in the proportion of a quarter of an ounce of glaze and a tablespoonful of sherry to a gill of the pulp, and a tablespoonful of good brown stock or gravy, and the same of very strong aspic. Cut some pieces of pale aspic, a little larger than each slice of duck; lay one on each when the tomato sauce has become cold, then dish on a bed of watercress salad straight down the dish. In between the slices put some cherries, drained from the salad dress- ing, and cut in four, mixed with a small proportion of chopped olives. Put a spot of white mayonnaise on each slice of duck, with a fow hits of olives in the middle. More cherry salad (the fruit left whole), with a fow olives, complete the garnish for tho sides of the dish. Another way.—Use orange salad,UNIVERSAL CbOKE-RY BOOK. 278 both on tho top and round tho dish, instead of cherries; chop the fruit for the top decoration, and leave the rest in the usual sectional divisions. Escalopes of Pigeon in Cases.—Prepare as many birds as are required, by boning them and filling them with rich forcemeat (any suitable). They may then be braised or roasted and loft to cool, when they should be cut in slices the third of an inch thick. Have ready some paper cases, and put in each some nice salad, one of artichoke bottoms is suitable. Lay a slice of pigeon on each, and mask it with mayonnaise or chopped aspic. If the cases are square, put a slice of egg (plover's are most suitable) at each comer. Cost, variable. Escalopes of Pigeon, with Truffles. — Prepare the cases as above; mask the slices with good chnudfroid, pale pink or green ; sprinkle with chopped truffle, and cover with pale aspic. Hound the escalopes, in the cases, put a border of chopped aspic, with little rings or other devices of truffles, and small pieces of foie gras ; tho latter should be put in the centre of some little rings cut from hard-boiled white of egg. Cost, variable. Another way.—After the escalopes are cut from birds that have been boned, but not stuffed, spread them with foie gras, then mask this with brown cliaudfroid; when set, sprinkle pink aside, chopped into pea- sized pieces, all over it. Put into the cases, and garnish the edges with aspic cream, cut in fancy shapes, with here and there a shred of truffle, and a sprig of cress or chervil. Fillets of Beef in Jelly.— Required: beef, sauce, aspic, cherries, and salad. Cost, according to garnish. Braise or grill some small fillets of beef (see preceding chapters); leave them until cold, then coat them with brown sauce, mixed with strong aspic, suf- ficient to set it; or use, instead, brown stock No. 16, mixed with dissolved gelatine, about half an ounce to three gills of stock. When firm, cover the fillets with chopped pale aspic in the centre; then lay some glace cherries round the edge; they should be halved. Place the fillets in a row, overlapping, down the centre of a dish, and down each side put some nice green salad— flageolets, cucumbers, haricots, verts, &c.—and garnish with more cherries. (See Cheeky Salad.) Fillets of Mutton in Jelly. —Prepare the fillets as above; they should be in ovals, cut from the leg or loin. Mix some chopped mint in the aspic used for them, and garnish with an iced cucumber purfie. Put cheirics about the dish, and on tho meat, as above directed. Cost, variable. Fillets of Mutton with Foie Gras.—When tho cooked fillets are cold, cut them round the edge, and put in some sieved foio gras, press them together, and coat them with brown chnudfroid; then, when set, with yellow aspic. Before the jelly sots, coat it with chopped cherries and truffles. Glace cherries are best for the purpose. Dish as above, and garnish the sides with Sauce Vehte. Cost, about 3s. to 4s., for a dish of nine. Fowl a la Parmesan in Aspic.—Required: three ounces each of cooked ham and fowl, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. ,6d. to 3s. Pound and sieve the fowl and ham ; stir the cheese into a gill of creamy bdchamel while hot; when cool, mix it with the meat, thon add a gill of aspic mayonnaise, and stir until it begins to set. Have ready a plain mould lined with pink aspic, and garnished at tho bottom and sides with sprigs of chervil, cooked tongue, and ham in littlerounds, chopped capers or gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Set the garnish with more jelly, fill up with the cheese mixture, and pour jelly over the top. Set in an ice cave for an hour or more, thon turn out and garnish with theCOLD ENTREES. ■270 same materials used for ornamenting the mould. Ham and Chicken Puree, Iced.—Mix together three ounces of boiled chicken, and the same weight of cooked ham ; pass them through a mincing machine, and mix with them a gill of liquid aspic, and a gill of whipped cream and mayonnaise stirred together. Season with cayenne and a pinch of salt: colour a pale pink, and stir over ice for a short time ; then fill any fancy moulds, and freeze in an ice cave; or pour into sandwich moulds, or a large plain mould, and cut into small blocks. In either case, dish with a border of green salad, plainly dressed; sprinkle with finely chopped pickled gherkins, and put small strips of cooked ham, coated with pink chaudfroid, here and there about it. Cost, about Is. lOd. to 2s. Ham and Veal Puree, Iced. —Required: four ounces each of cooked veal and ham, a gill of thick supreme sauce, half a glass of sherry, and a gill of white stock No. 9, firm enough to set into a jelly when cold; or aspic may be used instead. Seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to 2s., ex- clusive of quenelles. Prepare the meat as for quenelles; add a little celery salt, cayenne, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg. Fill a plain border mould—after whisking the mix- ture over ice—then freeze in an ice cave for an hour or more. Turn out, and fill the centre with a rich vegetable salad, and garnish the top of the mould with quenelles, masked with aspic, or coloured chaudfroid sauce. Indian Cutlets.—Remove the white meat of a young chicken which has been parboiled in white stock; free it from skin, then mince, and mix it with the following ingredients: a gill of fine bread-crumbs, soaked in white stock and beaten finely ; a salt- spoonful each of Xepaul pepper, grated lemon peel, white pepper, chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil; a tea- spoonful of mulligatawny paste, the yolks of two eggs and the wliito of one, a gill of thick bechamel, and a little salt. Put the mixture into but- tered cutlet moulds, and poach for fifteen or twenty minutes. Turn out when cold, and coat them with white chaudfroid sauce. Round the edge of Fin. 6S.—Cutlet Mould. each put some chopped pink aspic, mixed with clear mixed pickles, finely chopped, and sprinkle tiny' strips of red and green capsicums ower the entire surface. Dish the cutlets on a border of pink aspic, and fill the middle with salad. Cost, about 2s. fid. to 3s. per dish of nine or ten, exclusive* of salad. Fig. G8 shows the shape of the moulds. They are made in copper, and are very useful for various kinds of entrees and made dishes. lamb Cutlets a la Brad- leigh.—Required: the best end of a neck of lamb, braised and left until cold, pureo, and garnish as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3.S. fid. Cut tho lamb into neat pieces, take the bones away, and coat the meat with palo aspic; sprinkle it with finely chopped mint. Dish in a circle over- lapping, and put some iced cucumber purfie all round each, using a bag and pipe. A block of rice, or a croustude, may bo used to rest the cutlets against. Round the base put moro of the cucumber puree, sprinkled with chop- ped mint and beetroot in thin strips or tiny dice. Lamb Cutlets a la Taunton. —Required: cutlets as abovo, vege- tables, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. Od. Divide tho meat, glaze it, and lay on tho glazo, on ono side only, someUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 280 star-shaped pieces of cooked carrot, turnip, beetroot, and cucumber; or little rings, or othor devices will do. Then pour pale aspic over to set the garnish. Dish as above, and round the base put more of the same vege- tables in olive shapes, mixed with any nice salad dressing. Garnish with olives and capers. Small mutton can be used just as above directed. Little Bouchees of Beef en Chaudfroid.— ltequired : half a pound of cooked beef, a gill of brown sauce, No. 2, half a glass of sherry, a gill of stock, No. 16, and a quarter of an ounce of French gelatine. Cost, Is. 6d. to 2s., oKclusive of salad and vegetables. Prepare the meat asfor beef quenelles; add a little pepper and nutmeg, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Mix in 1 he brown sauce ; dissolve the gelatine in the stock and sherry, add it when rather cool, then whip the mixture over ice and fill some little bouehS moulds, using a bag and pipe. Set them in an ice cave for an hour, then turn out and mask them with brown chaudfroid; put them back to set, then pour pink aspic over; return to the cave for a short time before serving. Dish them on a border of rice, and fill the centre with a nice iced sakid. Serve with dressed vegetables. Little Timbales of Hare.— Required: hare, liver, kidney, wine, sauce, and garnish, as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to :1s., according to salad used, &c. Chop and pound some cooked hare -; (o six ounces add the liver of a fowl or the hare, and a sheep’s kidney, both braised in stock, then pounded and sioved; stir in a gill of good aspic, well flavoured with sherry; the same measure of thick brown sauce, and a teaspoonful of chopped truffle. 1* ill some timbale moulds and set them on ice ; turn out, and fill up the centres with tomato aspic in little block's, and tiny fried forcemeat balls, coated with chaudfroid or aspic, with little sprigs of chervil or tarragon in the centre. Serve a salad of tomatoes in a separato dish. Mousse of Fowl a la Lil- lington.— Substitute fowl for the veal as above, then proceed in the same way, except that cooked ham or tongue may be used instead of cocks’ combs or sweetbread. When turned out of the mould, garnish w’ith a let- tuce or cress salad and omit the truffles and aspic. Put a few' fancy-shaped slices of ham, coated with aspic, about the dish. Mousse of Pheasant.—Re- quired : half a pound of cooked phea- sant, a gill of brown sauce, the same measure of stock from the bones of the bird, half a gill of Madeira, half a gill of cream; garnish as below. Cost, variable. Skin and pound the meat, add the brown sauce, rub through a sieve; mix in the pheasant stock—this must bo strong and clear, but need not be clarified—whisk for a few minutes, then add the cream and whisk again. Have some little fancy moulds, with pink aspic to line the bottoms, and sprinkle them with truffle shreds and chopped white of egg boiled hard. Line the sides of the mould with aspic cream, palo yellow ; fill up with the mousse mixture, and set on ice. When finn turn out, and dish with green salad round each, and a cherry salad in the centre of the dish. Mousse of Veal a la Lil- liugton.—Required: three ounces of cooked voal, two ounces of foie gras, half a pint of stock, No. 6 or 7, a glass of sherry, half an ounce of sheet gela- tine, a border of aspic cream {sec Gau- nisiies), jelly, and garnish as below. Cost, varying with the garnish. Line an oval Charlotte mould with yellow' aspic; garnish with slices of truffle and cooked cocks’ combs; or instead of these, stamp out some sweet- bread in the same shapes. Pound and sieve the veal and foie gras; mix it with the stock and sherry in whichPlate III. CHARTREUSE OF CHICKEN.281 COLD ENTREES. the gelatine has been melted: then stir in a tablespoonful of trutllo essence, and whip the mixture until it looks spongy. The stock should be cool before it is added to the foie gras and veal. Put it into the prepared mould; pour more aspic over the top, and set in an ice cave, or on ice until firm. Turn it out on to the oval border of aspic cream, and put a few slices of truffles and blocks of aspic round the base. Pheasant, Chaudfroid of.— Required : pheasant, sauce, foie gras, aspic, truffle, and watercress. Cost, about 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d., but variable. Take the breast from a brace of roasted pheasants; cut into fillets, and mask them with brown chaudfroid sauce. Place them in a ring round a dish. Then pass some foie gras through a sieve: mix it with an equal bulk of semi-liquid aspic, and whisk together ; put this mixture on the top of the fillets. Next pour over some white chaudfr oid, and sprinkle with chopped truffle. Or put a star-shaped slice of truffle in the centre. Fill up the dish with water- cress. Pheasant in Surprise.—Re- quired : a pheasant puree, tongue, and ham, aspic, sauce, salad, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, on an average, from 4s. to 03., but variable. Linea plain mould with yellow aspic; when set, coat it with a garnish of foie gr&3 in thin slices, cooked tongue and pink ham in fancy shapes, and strips of hard-boiled white of egg. Then pour in a coating of thick brown chaud- froid. “When set, fill up with a ptireo made by mixing a gill each of brown sauce and liquid aspic with half a pint of pounded cooked pheasant; stir over ice until it begins to set before filling the mould. Then smooth it, place the mould in ice, and turn out when firm. Itound the mould put a vegetable salad. Sprinkle a chopped truffle and some »fived egg yolk over, and serve as cold as possible. Quail3 en Chaudfroid.—Re- quired : quails, sauco, salad, and garnish, as below. Cost of quails, uncertain. Bone and stuff some quails {see recipes under Game), and braise them; then divide when cold. Spread the outer part with brown sauce, good chaud- froid, and when firm garnish it with green chaudfroid, fr om a leaf pipe down the centre, and put some white or pink down the sides from a smaller pipe; leave the brown edge visible all round. The sauce must be used for this pur- pose before it sets; or, instead of coloured chaudfroid, somo thick may- onnaise sauce, or whipped cream seasoned with cayenne pepper, can be used. Have ready some paper cases; half till them with watercress salad, lay half a quail in each, and put round a flat dish. Quails with Foie Gras.—After boning and cooking the birds as above, cut slices thinly after the birds have become cold, and have a similar supply of foie gras in slices. Lay these in cases, one slice of foie gras on the top of the quail, and garnish with chopped jelly of two colours, pale in the centre, and a deep pink for the edges, or vice versa. Salad can be put in the cases, as in the above recipe, and should also be used for garnishing the dish; or olives, sliced beetroot, and plovers’ eggs may be used instead. Ragout of Game a la Finch- dale. — Required: four ounces of cooked game, two ounces each of boiled ham, truffles and foie gras, all in dice shapes; two eggs boiled hard, three gills of stock, No. 6, clarified, half an ounce of gelatine, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, from 2s. to 3s. Dissolvo the gelatino in a glass of Madeira, add it to the stock and stir in the meat, &c., and the eggs in strips—whites only. The stock should bo on the point of setting when they are put in. Lino some sandwich moulds with pink aspic, then put in a layer of the above, then more aspic, another layer of the ragout, and aspic again ; five layers in all. Turn them out when firm ; they should bo put oq282 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. ice, or in the cave for a short time. Garnish with green salad, sprinkled ■with the egg yolks, sieved. Stock No. 7 or 8 may be used in- stead of No. 6; in fact, any kind suitable for clear soup answers. Supreme of Veal a la Trego. —Required: nine or ten thin shoes from a fillet of veal; garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 3s. The shoes should be about three inches long, and an inch and a half wide, and batted out evenly with a wet knife. Put them on a buttered tin, sprinkle them with lemon juice and a spoonful of white wine, then pour a gill of white stock over, and cook, covered, in a gentle oven, for five minutes. Then put a pinch of salt and pepper on each fillet, and cook for five or seven minutes more. When cold, mask with pink and green chaud- froid, half of each, then dish them alternately on a border of aspic—this should be pale yellow. Put a row of the same aspic, finely chopped, between the fillets where they overlap, and fill up the middle of the mould with a mixed salad of cucumber and tomatoes. Over the centre surface spread some mayonnaise; the foundation should be white; colour a small quantity green and pink, and uso for ornamenting from a bag and pipe. Supreme of Veal a la Stock- dale.—Cook the meat as above, but mask with pink chaudfroid only. Sieve some yolk of hard-boiled eggs, and cut the whites into diamonds; lay them on the top of the meat to form a pattern, and dust them over with lobster coral or coralline pepper. Coat the surface of the salad dressing with the sieved yolks. Sweetbread Bouchees a la Husse. —Required : aspic and other garnish, sweetbread, ham, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. per dozen, or more. Lino some little deep dariole moulds with pale yellow aspic, and sprinkle it with chopped parsley and chervil, with some tiny stare of truffle at the bottom. Mix together some cooked sweetbread and ham in tiny dice shapes; moisten them with creamy bechamel and may. onnaise in equal parts; fill up the moulds and pour more aspic on the lop. Turn out when set, and dish each mould in a little bed of “ macedoine of vegetables ” tossed in mayonnaise. Sweetbreads with Foie Gras in Aspic. — Required: aspic, foie gras, sweetbread mixture as above, and garnish as below. Cost, variable, ac- cording to sweetbreads used. Line a square tin, with deep turned- up edges with pale aspic, then cover it with thin slices of foie gras; next put the mixture as given in above recipe; then more foie gras; then aspic again, making five layers in all. When set and cold, divide into squares or fingers, and dish nicely in a pilo, with a garnish of chervil and tarragon, and fancy shapes of beetroot and cucumber. The part that was bottom in the mould should be the top in serving. Lamb’s sweetbread does quite as well as calf’s for dishes of this kind. Sweetbread and Tongue Cutlets.—Required: some thin slices of cooked tongue and sweetbread, thick white sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, varying with the gar- nish. Put the slices together in four layers, dipping them in white sauce; tlm top layer should be tongue, and that must bo dipped in sauce on the under side only. Coat these with very pale aspic, and lay in the centre a star cut from a truffle or pickled walnut; put tiny shreds of tarragon round, and a leaf or two of small cress or chervil. Round the edges of the cutlets put some pale aspic, chopped small, and passed through a bag and pipe. Put a block of rieo down the centre of a dish, and put the cutlets in a row overlapping. Garnish the dish with olives, green salad, and prawns; or with cut lemons and beetroot, and hard-boiled eggs, with blocks of aspicCOLD ENTREES. 283 in between; or put a cherry or cur- rant salad round, with little quenelles of white meat on the edge of tho dish. These should be masked with chopped truffle. Timbale of Hare, Iced.— Required: a puree of hare, aspic, salad, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. Line a timbale mould with aspic, flavoured with a spoonful of dissolved currant or tomato jolly; pink aspic should be used, and the colour should be deep. Fill up with a puree of hare, and set on ice for a few hours. Turn out, and garnish with blocks of yellow aspic, and little heaps of currant jelly which have been on ice. In between these put some dressed salad and stuffed eggs in slices; coat the latter with a puree made by mixing sieved foie gras with brown sauce, No. 2, and liquid aspic, equal measures of each, well whisked over ice before using. Make the hare puree in the same way, using cooked hare in place of foie gras; but after the puree is put into the mould, pour a layer of aspic, half an inch thick, over it, so that when turned out the puree will be completely covered with the jelly. Garnish the top of the mould with the ingredients used for the base, mixing them so that tho colours contrast well. Tomatoes Stuffed, in Aspic. —Cut some plum-shaped tomatoes in two, lengthwise, scoop out tho pulp, and rub it through a hair sieve. Mix all that goes through with an equal bulk of sieved foie gras. In the toma- toes put a spot of mayonnaise, fill each half with the above mixture, place them together again, and put them singly into little oval paper eases, as shown in Fig. 69, with a bed of small salad at the bottom. Chop some aspic, put it all round the fruit to fill up the cases, and coat the top of each tomato with coloured mayonnaise, or a little pile of Iceo Sauce X la Raiioe (plainly frozen, not moulded) is better still. Cost, variable. These may bo served at dinner, or for ball suppers, or any outdoor gather- ings. They must be thoroughly cold. Instead of the purfie given above, some mince of chicken or game may be used, Fic.. G9._Paper Case. and the savoury pates sold in tins come in for such dishes. Many potted meats can be similarly utilised. Veal Chandfroid a la Lil- ling"ton.—Required: half a pound of cold veal, from a braised fillet, ham, vegetables, aspic, garnish, and sauce as below. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 3s. 6d. Cut the meat into thin slices, and then into ovals; all skin must be re- moved. Cut some ham into the same shape, but smaller. Mask tho veal with white chaudfroid, lay the ham on, and mask that with the same sauce coloured pink; sprinkle the white sauce with chopped truffles and capers, and the pink with truffles and cooked turnips in tiny strips, or with hard- boiled white of egg. Toss a tin of “ macedoine do legumes ” in mayon- naiso until well coated; pile them in the centre of a dish, and put a border of chopped aspic round. Dish tho meat on the border, and put little quenelles of veal or chicken round tho base; those should be pink and white. In between them place some rich forcemeat balls, made small, and mask them with brown chaudfroid. This is done very easily by holding them on a palette knife and pouring tho sauco over, then laying them on a wire sievoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 284 or pastry rack to set. Or they can he taken up on a fino skewer, and dipped in the sauce, then smoothed with a knife. The first is the better way. The balls may be fried, or stewed in gravy. Veal Cream in Jelly.— Re- quired : six ounces of cooked veal, two ounces of cooked ham, two tablespoon- fuls of thick bechamel, a gill and a half of aspic, and the same of whipped cream, a truffle in shreds or dice, and garnish as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 3 s. Lino a mould with aspic, and then coat it entirely with cooked vegetables —carrot, turnip, beetroot, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, &c. The shapes should be as fanciful and varied as possible, and the colours nicely ar- ranged. Set these with more aspic, then make a puree of the above ingredients, fill up, set on ice until firm, then turn out Cut some iced sauce a la barbe into dice, or any desired shape, and garnish the top of the mould; put a few more pieces round the base, with any of the vegetables used for the garnish, in little heaps, first dressing them with oil, &c., in the usual way. Some fancy- shaped slices of lemon should divide the vegetables from the iced sauco. A timbale mould, or any mould with a sunk top, can be used. If a “sunk top border mould ” is used, the centre must be filled with chopped aspic after it is turned out, and this should be pale to contrast with the vegetable garnish in the mould.JOINTS AND PLAIN MEAT DISHES. {For Braised Meats, see Entrees, Made Dishes, and Removes.) GENERAL HINTS ON MEAT. The choice of food is one of the most important of the duties of every housekeeper; much of the requisite knowledge involved in the judicious selection of wholesome fare, and the careful avoidance of what is bad or doubtful, can result only from practical experience. "We will first point out the leading features of good meat generally. Further details of each kind are given under their respective headings. One of the surest sigus of a healthy auimal is the condition of the tongue; this should be plump and clear skinned, the fat at the root being fairly plentiful and of good colour, with no unpleasant odour. A shrivelled tongue, with rank smelling fat, may not indicate actual disease, but goes far to disprove perfection. Then the internals. These—viz., the heart, liver, kidney, &e.—furnish an equally reliable test. A bright, clear kidney, with firm clear fat round it; a smooth-looking liver, uniform in colour, and free from blotches on the surface ; or a heart, clear and bright-looking, are prominent sigus of a healthy condition. On these points the highest authorities are agreed. As to the flesh itself, we must refer to our remarks under the separate headings for Beef, Yeal, &c. &c., for details; but speaking generally, it should be firm, free from flabbiness—i.e. pleasant both to the sight and smell—and when cooked should neither shrink, nor separate when cut to any great extent. A certain loss of weight is unavoidable, given the priinest meat and the most careful cooking; we refer rather to the dry, shrivelled appearance of poor meat; whereas good meat, to use a homely phrase, will “plump.” But to ensure good results at table, the great thing is personal inspection: one soon becomes acquainted with the outward signs of good, indifferent, and bad meat; and the lines of demar- cation are many; while as to the choice of joints, a so-called inferior ono from a first-class animal is to bo preferred to a prime cut (?) from a poor, badly-fed one. Meat should always be hung up as soon as it comes from the butcher, after careful wiping with a damp cloth, then with a dry one. Kernols, marrow, kidneys, and other parts which taint readily should be removed; a good dust of pepper, round the shank bone of a leg or shoulder of mutton, or other meat, is a simple preservative ; and some flour should be dredged all over. The cellar or larder should be cool, airy, and dry; damp, lack of ventilation, or proximity to open drains will render the meat unwholesome; and those who have not facilities for hanging itUniversal cookery book. 28(3 must either eat it iu a fresh condition, or get the butcher to hang it for them. Should a joint become tainted, owing to sudden change of temperature or any other cause, the best restorative is, we think, permaugauate of potash—enough being added to give the water a pink tinge; both must be renewed until the meat ceases to discolour the water. After this treatment, thorough drying is important, and for baking or roasting the meat must be floured. With regard to frozen meat, now largely consumed in this country, certain rules for its treatment must be carefully followed by those who would serve it in its best condition. Like fresh meat, it needs to be hung for a time to become tender. Supposing a butcher cuts up one of these sheep in the morning, and it is bought and cooked for the mid-day dinner, the result will be very different from that of the same meat cooked two to four days (according to the weather) later. But it must be remembered, both in hanging it before cooking and for cooking, that the cut end must be upwards, or a good deal of the juice will run out; where two ends are cut, as a loin or neck, the position must be horizontal. The time required is rather longer than for home-fed meat, as, after the usual preliminary closing of the pores, the cooking should be very slow. We may here repeat the reminder to bring into the kitchen, a few hours before cooking, any joint, whether English or foreign, in cold, frosty weather. It is astonishing what an improvement will thus be effected, both in flavour and the tender juicy condition of the joint. Frozen meat should not be floured during the hanging, it is apt to turn sour; but it should bo dredged with flour for baking or roasting. It is admirably adapted for stews, pies, and puddings, on account of its tenderness; boiling is the least satisfactory way of cooking it, and for beef tea or mutton tea, frozen meat is not suitable; this is explained in the chapter on Invalid Cookery. carving. That carving is an art none can deny, but whether the bad carving so often met with is really due, as is sometimes said, to stupidity, awkward- ness, or laziness, is an open question. Practice has much to do with it, and a good knife much more; given both, no one need carve badly, assuming that the general principles are rightly understood; and these are embodied in cutting fairly, so that the prime portions are not dug out, and the inferior ones left bodily on the dish; and in the retention of the gravy as far as possible. It is not possible to carve meat iu any way without the gravy escaping; the point is to avoid the hacking and chopping, which results in a dish full of gravy, and dry chunks of meat on everybody’s plate. There are many reasons why a bad carver should endeavour to perfect himself (or herself, as the case maybe); foremost, perhaps, are the palpable ones that meat has a very different flavour and appearance when nicely carved, and that a good deal of waste is prevented. A joint cut fairly to begin with can reappear a greater number of times as a joint than if spoilt in the first cutting, and fag ends only are left upon the dish.287 JOINTS AND 1>LAIN MEAT t)I§HE§ There is, however, much in custom, and with respect to carving, many chefs, and others who can speak authoritatively, argue that the ordinary methods, even when most carefully performed, might with advantage be altered. For example, one writer points out that a loin of mutton suffers by being jointed before cooking, and served in chops, and advises that it be cut just as a saddle, which consists of two loins. He asks, too, why should not a leg be carved as it is when joined to the loin, and served as a haunch? Perhaps tire question with regard to the homely neck of mutton is still more pertinent. Why, it is asked, if it is ruinous to a neck of venison to cnt it in chops, should not mutton be subject to the same rule ? If one gains by being cut saddle-fashion—i.e. from end to end—the other will be the better. But these points must be left to individual decision, and while one might easily bring forward other arguments in favour of different methods, it is likely that the majority will cling to the more familiar ways. Therefore, our diagrams for the most part are illustrative of the modes of carving as generally practised. But as it does not fall to the lot of everyone to meet with “ saddles and haunches” in daily life, we indicate also how the neck, loin, or leg, should be dealt with, where the desire exists to put into practice the suggested alterations. BONING. On this point there is much to be said on both sides. That a boned joint goes farther is obvious to all. The ease with which it is carved, and the fact that the bone in the fresh state can be utilised for soups, &c., prove this; but there is no denying a loss of flavour to some extent. We urge the importance of every housekeeper making herself proficient in the art of boning, because we think that the gain— notably in the case of a loin of mutton—outbalances any loss; at the same time, we do not think that the meat is as rich in flavour. But here, again, opinions differ. We once knew a man who could tell, after a mouthful, whether a helping of meat was from a boned joint, and his palato was equally keen with regard to fish. But for one such, there are scores who would detect no difference; and in such cases, where economy has to be studied, a boned joint might with advantage bo served for the family dinner. Besides the economy, a pleasant change may be obtained by inserting some forcemeat in place of the bone. How to acquire the art is the question for any who may be disposed to try, and here again certain underlying principles must be understood; briefly, avoid hacking the meat; remove it with a clean cut, so to speak, and leave as little as possible on the bones. If it be true that the nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.it is a misfako to leave the sweet meat behind. It is also a mistake to leave on the meat anything which would • be better in the stock pot; paxy waxy, “— and other portions that would, if Fig. 70.—Boxing Knife. served with the meat, be left upon the plates, should all be removed; a little piece of fat can bo dexterously slipped in the vacant places. A boning knife, as illustrated, is a necessity, and the cost is trifling.288 universal Cookery Sook. To attempt to bone with a table knife is useless. The knife must be kept close to the bone, the point being used carefully round corners and in hollow parts to avoid cutting the meat. Patience and care and a few experiments will bring about the desired results; and one practical lesson, if obtained only by watching the butcher at a distance, will be a great lielp. Don’t leave the bones lying about; they rapidly deteriorate. Put them on at once with any other odds and ends, and so make the most of the entire joint. EXTRACT OF MEAT. It is doubtful if there is any more useful invention in connection with the table than the substance which bears this name. First introduced as invalid food, its use is now fully recognised in the kitchen, where it conies in handy for all sorts of purposes. With the few writers who assert that it is better than fresh meat, we do not agree ; but for saving time, when circumstances do not permit of due attention to stock of the ordinary sort, or when a sauce or gravy is hardly as good in colour or flavour as it should be, or for the hundred and one dishes that may be wanted on the spur of the moment, then it proves a real boon. It is worthy of note that many persons who are prejudiced against every other sort of preserved food, have no objection to the use of extract of moat. Some, however, while owning its utility, dislike what they term the “ burnt taste.” This is often the result of using it in excess, a common error in dealing with concentrated foods of all sorts; the fact should be grasped that one pound represents many pounds of meat in the fresh state. The large jars are much cheaper in proportion than the small ones; and where it is used regularly they should be bought, as it will keep well in a cool place. This is not the place to argue the question as to whether extract of meat is a food proper or only a stimulant; further remarks are made on this point in a later chapter; we aro here referring to its usefulness as a food adjunct, and of that there is no doubt. When glaze is not handy, a good substitute is made from extract of meat with a little gelatine and water. (See Glaze.) The extract is also a very valuable addition to the traveller’s store, since it occupies but little space ; with hot water a basin of soup is ready in a moment; or a satisfy- ing snack is made by spreading it on bread and butter. In many small savouries throughout this work, for which a spoonful of brown sauce, thick gravy, or stock is recommended as an ingredient, should neither bo handy, by mixing a morsel of the extract with water, and thickening with flour or roux, the deficiency is supplied.MIXED MEAT DISHES. 289 MIXED MEAT DISHES. The recipes under this heading are separately grouped, for several reasons. The meat dishes, many of which are cheap ana simple, aro for the most part made from mixed meats, or one recipe stands for several more; therefore, to place them under any one kind of meat would considerably limit their sphero of usefulness. Bread and Meat Baked.— Required : half a pound of stale bread, the same weight of raw meat, four to six ounces of scalded onions in thin slices, salt and pepper, dripping, and water or plain stock. Cost, about 6d. Grease a baking dish, cut the bread very thinly, spread with the dripping, slice and season the meat, and fill up the dish alternately, having bread top and bottom, and onions over the meat. Pour the stock over, about half a pint, and let it stand an hour or two, that the bread may soak; then bake for an hour or two: it depends on the kind of meat. Cover the dish for three parts of the time it is in the oven, then uncover for the surface to brown and crisp nicely. Many children would enjoy a dinner of this in preference to roast meat. The remains of a dish of cooked rice or macaroni can be used up in it, allowing more stock in proportion to the quantity. Bread and Meat Steamed.— Required: equal weights of bread and meat, or liver and bacon in place of meat. For half a pound of each, re- quired also an ounce of shredded suet, or beef marrow, seasoning, and a gill of stock, one egg, and a small onion. Cost, 6d. or 8d. Use a basin instead of a dish ; make this as directed above, and pour the egg and stock over last. The suet or marrow Dikes the place of the dripping. Steam it for four hours, as directed for Puddings. If the full time cannot be given for steaming this, some other fat must take the place of the suet; three hours will do if marrow or dripping be used. The outside fat of a cooked piece i of baked meat will do for this and similar dishes; it should be cut up very small, and used like suet. Heart Roasted in a Sauce- pan.—Prepare the heart in the usual way—it may be stuffed or plain—then dry it well by rolling it in flour. Put a quarter of a pound of beef dripping in an iron saucepan; when hot, lay the heart in and baste it for several minutes; on this its tenderness, or otherwise, mainly depends. Then grease a thick sheet of paper and put over it; put the lid on and cook gently, allowing about the same time as for roasting, or rather longer ; baste often, over the paper. When done, take the paper off, and put the heart on a hot dish in front of the fire for a minute and pour round it some sauce or gravy. During the cooking, the heart must be turned about every twenty minutes, that it may be evenly brow'ned. This is a useful method of cooking, when it is inconvenient to heat an oven, or make up a fire for roasting, as only just enough heat is required to keep the fat hot. Cost, variable. Heart with Digestive Sauce. —Required: a heart (pig’s, lamb’s, sheep’s, or calf's), half a pint of Diges- tive Sauce, and some stuffing and stock, or liquor from boiled meat. Cost, variable. Cook the heart by boiling in stock until almost done; or follow the directions given for Heart Roasted in- a Saucepan ; then take it up and slice it; put it in a saucepan with tho sauce, add a gill of stock (No. 1 or 2), cover, and lcavo for half an hour, below boiling point. When ready,290 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. put on a very hot dish, with a ring of fried onions and apples round it, or an onion or celery puree. The forcemeat may be “ plain veal.” If boiled, tie the heart in muslin or a thin cloth ; if roasted, tie a piece of greased muslin over it. Many other sauces may be used in just the same way. Hotch Potck (Cheap and Good).—Required: the scrag'end of a nock of mutton, say two pounds, an ox foot, two quarts of cold water, a large carrot, an onion or two, a small cabbage, and a pound of dried green peas, or split yellow peas. Cost, about 2s. Prepare the meat by washing and cutting it up ; the foot may bo bought at the tripe shops ; cut it up and put it with the mutton and cold water; bring to the boil, add the sliced vege- tables and a little pepper ; cook gently in a covered jar for three hours, then add the cabbage, boiled separately for a fow minutes, drained and shredded. Give a quarter of an hour’s further cooking, then season to taste, and sta- in the peas, which should be cooked in another vessel. Before adding the peas, draw out the bones from the mutton and the foot. Another way.—Use boiled lentils instead of peas, either plain or curried; the latter make a savoury hotch potch, very acceptable on a cold day. Kidneys Roasted in a Sauce- pan.—Take two ox kidneys, or three or four pigs’ kidneys, and after washing and drying, flour them well, and pro- ceed as directed for heart, on page 289. Be sure that the cooking is slow. Give beef kidneys about forty minutes; pork, being smaller, will be done in less time. Serve with gravy or sauce, with a dish of filed or stewed onions or any other vegetables. Cost, variable. Iiivex”, Moulded. - A breakfast dish. Required : half a pound of fat pork, two pounds of calf’s or sheep’s liver, a quarter of a pint of bread crumbs, a raw egg, a dossertspoonful of salt, a chopped onion, a tablespoon- ful each of brown sauce and tomato pulp, a teaspoonful of pepper, a salt- spoonful of grated lemon peel, half the measure of ground cloves and nutmeg, and a little cayenne to taste. Cost, about 2s. 2d. Pass the meat and onion through a sausage machine, add the crumbs and sauce, mix well; put in the seasoning, which should be blended first in the dry state. Press the mass firmly into a buttered mould, with a lid, and steam it for a couple of hours. As soon as done take the lid off : turn out when cold, and garnish with cress, parsley, celery or beet leaves, nastur- tium loaves, or anything of an equally simple kind. Salad should be served with it. The egg should be beaten and strained beforo adding it; it should be mixed in last of all. Pickled pork may be used, or bacon instead of fresh meat, then the salt must be decreased. Meat in a Mask.—This is a simple and good way of heating a cold joint from any animal. Some mashed potatoes must be prepared, with which the meat is to be covered until even in shape ; a knife should bo dipped in hot water for smoothing the surface If brushed over with beaten egg it will look nicer, or it may be dredged with raspings. A quick oven is needed, and as soon as hot through and brown, the moat is ready. Gravy or sauce should be served with it. Cost, vari- able, according to circumstances. Discretion is needed in preparing this. If the joint is large and under- done, the potato covering may be thick; but a small joint, well cooked, must be thinly coated, as it is not desirable to expose it to the heat of the oven longer than may bo necessary. If their flavour is liked, a layer of cooked onions, sliced, can be put underneath the potatoes; this will improve a piece of pork, and sage is a suitable addition. The remains of a tureen of sauce can be used up on the top of the meat nndor the potatoes.MIXED MEAT DISHES. Meat with Macaroni.—It sometimes happens that the centre of a joint is found to ho insufficiently cooked, and some way of re heating, other than mincing or hashing, &c., would he welcomed. In such a case we advise a trial of this dish. Sup- posing the meat to be mutton or veal, say the fillet, about a pound or rather more. Put it on a plate, and sprinkle it with pepper and chopped herbs; pour over a gill of stock and cover it for a short time. This will give it flavour and prevent dryness. Have for it a deep dish, grease it, dredge it bottom and sides with bread crumbs. Boil some macaroni until half cooked, quantity according to taste—about half a pound will do. Make a good supply of plain forcemeat—a little onion should be added if for mutton—and put it at the bottom and sides of the dish; then line the dish with a few slices of ham or bacon, cooked. Put in the piece of meat, place a few more slices of bacon over, then another layer of force- meat. Cover the dish, and set in a tin of hot water in a moderate oven for half an hour. Then take away the tin, and give it another quarter of an hour, or thereabouts. While this is cooking, finish the macaroni in stock or sauce. (See Brown' Macaroni ) Turn the moulded meat on a hot dish and put the macaroni all round it. It is necessary that the dish he but little larger than the meat. The latter should touch the bacon; if a space is left between it will not turn out so nicely. The forcemeat must he free from suet. Cost, variable. Meat with Spinach and Batter.—llequired : a pound of steak, a dish of spinach, and a pint of hatter made as if for Yorkshire Podding. Cost, about Is. 8d. Cook the steak in the usual way by broiling, grilling, kc., or stew it. After cooking and pressing the spinach, put it on a plate, and cut up the steak ; Lay the pieces on and pour the gravy over. Bake the pudding batter in a round tin, and cut it in four pieces; 2!)1 la)r these on the meat in their original form, and serve with more gravy. This can be varied by using various sorts of moat; and cabbage, turnip tops, or other green vegetables. The batter, if preferred savoury, should be made by one of the recipes given for Savoury Batter Puddings Meat with Vegetables and Rice.—Required: half a pound of rice, two pounds of meat, a carrot, a turnip, an onion, and a few stalks of celery, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 2s. 2d. The meat may bo any kind, and from any lean part of the animal; it should bo cut up and stewed with the sliced vegetables and some gravy (see Gravy for Stews), then thickened and seasoned with a teaspoonful of curry powder and a little pepper and chopped herbs. Boil the rice by the directions for Saffron Rice, and serve in a pile, the rice over the meat, &c. Garnish the dish with fried onions and fried parsley. This is very savoury, and generally liked. Mixed Meat Stew.—Required: half a pound each of lean pork, mutton, and beef kidney; three pounds of potatoes and a pound and a half of onions, seasoning and water. Cost, about Is. 6d. Cut the meat and kidney up, slice the vegetables, put onions at the bottom of a saucepan, then meat, then potatoes, and stf on until full, having onions at the top. Season each layer and pour half a pint of water over. Cook slowly for three hours ; or if the vegetables are parboiled first, two hours will do. Shake often to prevent burning. Herbs may ho added, or a spoonful of ketchup, or a inusluooin or two when they are plentiful. Instead of pork, lean ham or bacon, cut into strips, can bo used; and veal is nice in place of mutton. Some sheep’s feet, boiled separately until nearly done, or tho remains of cooked calf’s or ox fee);, will he a valuable addition. This may he said of any sort of gelatinous meat; it gives body to the gravy.292 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Potato Pasty.—This is a very economical dish. To make it properly, a pasty-pan must be procured which has a well-fitting; perforated plate, and a valve-pipe to screw on. This can be had of almost any ironmonger, and will cost from 3s. to 5s. The meat, seasoning, and gravy are put into the lower part. The plate is then laid on the meat, the valve-pipe screwed on, and mashed potatoes spread equally on the top. The pasty should be baked in a moderate oven and sent to table in the same tin in which it is baked, which should have a neatly-folded napkin pinned round it. The cover should not bo removed until the meat is to be served, and an empty dish should bo placed in readiness for it. If properly baked, the potatoes will be nicely browned, and will be flavoured like the meat. The contents of this pasty may be varied indefinitely. Mut- ton or veal cutlets, pork chops, chickens or rabbits cut into neat joints, or beef cut up as for stewing, will all be found excellent. The meat should be neatly trimmed, and nicely seasoned, and a Fig. 71. -Potato Pastv Pan. small quantity of gravy poured over it. The mashed potatoes should form a crust at least three inches thick. Two pounds of meat and three pounds of potatoes will make a moderate sized pasty. Cost, from 2s. to 3s. Care should be taken that the gravy boils up before the potatoes are laid on the top, and it should not be thickened much, or it may burn, as it cannot be stirred while coolring, and a moderate heat only is required. If preferred, it can be steamed until half done, thon put in the oven to finish and brown the top. A little beaten egg "brushed over the potatoes will ensure their browning, though this is not necessary. Sea Stew.—Required : a pound of buttock steak, half a pint of com- mon stock, a large onion, a pound of potatoes, some dumplings, and season- ing as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Reel and slice the onion, brown it in a bit of hot dripping; cut the meat up in squares, brown it also; sprinkle with flour, pour in the stock and boil up, then skim well. Make the dump- lings by either of the recipes for suet crusts, either plain or savoury ; a dozen little ones are best. While the meat is cooking, parboil the potatoes, thon slice them, and add to the meat; stew until done, about two hours altogether. The dumplings should be steamed separately, and put round a hot dish, with the meat, &c., in the centre. (See also Sea Pie.) Any other kind of meat, or a mix- ture can be used for this; or some cooked beef, if underdone, can be put in to heat through. Chopped parsley improves it. Stew for Cheap Dinners.— Required: three pounds of cuttings and scrapings of bones, such as may often be had for fourpence per pound, half a pound of milt, half a pound each of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, n tablespoonful each of brown sugar, salt, and chopped parsley, four ouncos each of nice beef dripping, maize meal, barley meal, and broken rice, half a gill of vinegar, and a good teaspoonful of black peppercorns. Cost, about Is. lOd. Prepare and slice the vegetables. Brown the meat in the hot dripping, add the vinegar and two-thirds of the water, and bring to the boil. Put in the carrots, onions, and celery, the peppercorns, and a spoonful of brown- ing, and boil for an hour; then put in the rice; boil, or rather simmer, for another hour; add the potatoes, turnips, and the meal mixed with the rest of the water, and give another hour oiBEEF. 293 more. It may take nearly four hours in all; add the salt and chopped parsley a short time before serving. Of water, use from three to four quarts. (See remarks at foot of rccipo for Mixed Meat Stew.) Toad-in-the-Hole.—Required : a pound and a half of lean meat (mutton or beef), a pint of milk, two eggs, half a pound of flour, a little salt, pepper, baking powder and dripping. Cost, about Is. 9d. Melt the dripping in a baking tin, let it get hot, and grease it well. Make a hitter of tho milk, flour, &c., as if for Yorkshire Podding. Pour it in the tin, then pepper the meat a little ; lay it in the batter and bake. The oven should be quick at first for the batter to rise, then rather slow for the meat to cook. Time, about an hour. If the meat is cut up into four or six pieces it is more conveniently served, but if in one piece, the gravy is better preserved. Tender meat is a necessity for this dish. Kidneys and liver can be cooked as above, and sausages make a savoury dish of the kind, though somewhat rich. For other dishes of this sort, see Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery. Tongues, a Cheap Stew of. —In some towns sheeps’ tongues may bo bought very cheaply of tlio dealers in American and Australian meat. For half a dozen tongues take three quarts of water, three ounces of pearl barley, salt and pepper, and a pint, after cutting up, of the usual vegetables, thickening and colouring. Cost, vari- able. Soak the tongues in the cold water for an hour or two (first wash them well) ; then bring to tho boil, put in the barley and vegetables, and cook for about three hours. Take up the tongues and skin them; keep them hot and thicken some of the liquor (strain it off through a sieve) with browned flour, an ounce to the pint; boil it up and pour over the tongues. Then take up some of the barley and vegetable, and serve round the tongues. Some chopped parsley is a great improvement. The liquor, Ac., left can be served next day as bioth. (See remarks under the recipe for Mixed Meat Stew.) BEEF. Beef is considered the most generally useful meat for the family meals, and it is the most economical also. It can be obtained all the year, but is in perfection in the winter, because the joints can then be hung long enough to become quite tender. In summer, wipe off any moisture which may arise (if it hangs but a night the joint will be improved), but do not wash meat for roasting imless quite necessary. If the dies have touched any part, rub it with a cloth dipped in vinegar, then dry it and sprinkle with flour. The lean of good beef is bright in colour, and the fat whitish and firm ; very lean beef is always inferior, while, if too fat, it is far from economical. Ox beef is tho best of all; the ilesh is smoothly grained, and will rise when pressed with the finger in a young animal, Heifer beef is smaller and better suited for small families; tho meat is somewhat paler, and closer in tho grain. Bull beef is dark in colour, with little fat, a coarse grain, and a strong smell, and should never bo chosen. Butchers in good localities do not, however, oxposo it for salo. Very rank smelling, highly coloured, and greasy looking fat is indicative of oil-cake feeding, and although not necessarily unwholesome, it is far from economical, and tho flavour is not liked by many people.UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 294 An ox is usually cut. up and dressed as follows :— Rump.—The silver side is salted aud boiled; the middle part cut into steaks ; the chump cud is roasted or braised. Sirloin.—Prime roasting part; the steaks cut from the fillet (or undercut) are very tender, and are preferred by many to rump steaks, but the latter are more fully flavoured. Buttock, or Round.—This is cut into steaks, or may be boiled or stewed; the upper side is sometimes roasted, but should bo well hung, or will not be tender. Mouse Round.—This may be. boiled or stewed. Flank.—This, whether thick or thin, is excellent when boiled, especially if rolled and pressed. Veiny Piece.—This is cut into steaks, but thoy are of inferior quality, and are best stowed, or used for pies aud puddings. Aitchbone.—Usually salted and boiled, or may be stewed or roasted. Leg.—Stewed or used for soups and stocks. The top part, cut thickly, is very good braised. Shin.—This has the same uses as the leg. Shoulder- or Leg-of-Mutton Piece. —This can be boiled, braised, or stewed; it makes good gravy. Neck and Clod.—These parts are mostly used for gravies, soups, &c., or may be rolled and boiled. Ribs.—The fore ribs are the prime part, aud should be roasted; the middle ribs aro also roasted; from the chuck ribs second quality steaks are cut. Brisket.— Tliis can be stewed or cooked like the Hank. Cheeks.—Very good stews and soups aro to be had from these, or they may lie made into brawn. Tail.—Excellent when stewed and makes very good soup. Tongue.—Generally salted and boiled, or may be braised or stewed while fresh, or parboiled and roasted. Heels.—Theso make good stock, or may be boiled or stewed. Liver.—Often fried ; may be baked or stewed; the latter is best. Ox. a Ilunip. u Mouse Buttock, or Round, c Leg, or Hock, i) Buttock, or Round. e Aitchbone, or Top. f Sirloin. 0 Fore Ribs. u Middle Ribs. 1 Chuck Ribs. j Neck, Clod, or Sticking Piece. k Shin. l Shoulder- or Leg-of-Mutton Piece. m Brisket. n Thin Flank, o Thick Flank, p Veiny Piece.295 BEEF. Palate.—This can bo cooked iu various ways; it needs long cooking ; and when fried should be first parboiled. Heart. — This may ho roasted or baked, but is more digestible if first partly stewedi may also bo braised. Skirt.—This makes good gravy, or can bo cooked like steaks, used for puddings, Ac. It should be skinned. Tripe and Sweetbread are cooked iu various ways. The various parts of an ox are, however, subdivided somewhat dif- ferent! v. and called by various names, in different conuties, and this is somewhat bewildering to the purchaser. For instance, it is quite possible to meet with a butcher who makes no distinction between thick and thin flank and brisket, but classes them under one heading; while, as to the “ shoulder-of-mutton piece,” a writer asserts that the inquiry for that was met with the reply, “ that there are no shoulders of mutton iu cows! ” This, however, was ignorance of a rare kind wo should say. We would also add, that in the diagram wo can only indicate iho parts of the ox from which the joints are taken ; for, setting aside the fact that the methods for cutting up arc not uniform, it is not possible to show the exact shape of the several joints here. They are more clearly given, with directions for carving them, under their separate headings. See Cold Meat Cookery, Invalid Cookery, Entrees and Made Dishes, and Meat Pies and Pdddings, for other dishes from Beef proper to those headings. Aitchbone of Beef.—We advise that this be boiled; it is excellent boiled fresh, but recipes for salting will be found under Brisket, Rump, Ac., which answer equally well for this joint. If it be allowed to boil fast at first, no after-care can make it Pin. 73.—A itch bosk or Beep. tender. Vegetables (carrots, turnips, and parsnips) and suet dumplings are the usual accompaniments, 'll10 soft, marrow-like fat is generally enjoyed while hot, but the hard fat may he left nntil cold. From the remains, very ! good potted meat may Is; made. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. per pound. In carving this, cut across the grain, the knife following the lino from A to n, as illustrated above. The slices should he even and moderately thick. If extra fat is required, it should ho taken horizontally from the side of the joint. If roasted without pre- liminary hanging, toughness is almost certain; hut a well-hung joint, from a prime animal, may ho roasted or slowdy baked. It can be stowed also, but the fat should be removed. Bachelors’ Stew.—Required : four pounds of lean beef, from the rump or buttock, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. 3d. Slice some carrots, one for each pound of meat if large; brown them in hot dripping, with the moat, first tied in shape. About twenty minutes must be given ; the moat should le a rich colour all over. Add a pint of stock (No. 1 or 2), just warm ; let it boil up, then skim all the fat off; add a bay-loaf, some herbs and spice, and put tho lid on ; keop a weight on it296 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. to prevent escape of steam as much as possible, and in an hour turn tho meat, hut lcoop tho carrots on tho top. Then add to the gravy a dozen little onions and mushrooms, and half a dozen turnips, all sliced. Simmer for another hour; turn again, keeping up tho quantity of stock, and in three hours thicken, colour, and season to taste, adding more gravy if required. The vegetables may he sieved, or added just as they are round tho meat. A squeeze of lemon juice improves the dish. This is excellent, very little trouble, and is economical. Chuck ribs may bo used for it, and will bo found very tasty. Baron.—This is a double sirloin; tho weight varies considerably accord- ing to the size of the animal. It is always roasted, and served only on festive occasions at - the tables of tho rich, or at great public entertainments. Beef Cheese.—Required : throe pounds of steak, half a pound each of veal and ham, half to three-quarters of a pound of bacon (fat), seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. 6d. Put tho steak, ham, veal, and four ounces of the bacon through a mincing machine; mix with this about a dessert- spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a chopped shalot, a tablospoonful of chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, fresh or dried—in fine powder, if tho latter; add a gill of brown stock (No. 4 would do), and half a glass of light wine. Mix very thoroughly, then lino a dish or an oval jar with the rest of the bacon in slices, leaving some for the top ; press the mince in firmly, cover with the bacon, and then with a flour-and-water paste. Bake it in a very slow oven, three or four hours, and set it in a cold place for twenty-four hours before removing the paste. It is then ready to serve, and forms a very economical and convenient dish for a number of guests on any occasion; it also makes very good sandwiches. Boiled Beef (improved Gorman recipe).—Choose fresh, lean beef; cover it with water or stock from bones, a few whole spices, some chopped onion, celery, and carrot, and a spoonful of grated horse-radish. Boil, and after skimming well, cover, and simmer very gently, giving thirty minutes per pound if thick. Half an hour before it is done add a little salt, and a small bunch of herbs. Reserve the liquid for soup, after taking from it enough to serve with the moat as gravy. It should also be accompanied by horse- radish sauce, and a dish of dressed beetroot or fruit in vinegar. For the latter, see rocipcs for Sweet Pickles. If not wanted hot, put aside all the liquor for soup, &c., but leave tho meat in until cool, first pouring it in an earthen pan ; then, when tho meat is cold, glazo or brush it with aspic jelly, garnish with salad, &c., and sorvo as a breakfast or luncheon dish. It also makes tasty sandwiches or potted meat ; and may he added with advantage to hashos, &c., to give piquancy. Brazilian Stew. — Required : two pounds of beef, cut from the leg or shin in pieces, about two or three ounces in weight; they should be in lumps, not slices; half a pint of sliced vegetables ; seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Dip each piece of meat in vinegar, and put in a stewpan with the sliced vegetables, and a few peppercorns and allspice berries. Add no water; put the lid on, and lot the contents of the pan heat very gradually, then put in a tablespoonful of store sauce, a few drops of browning, and a squeeze of lemon juice. In two to three hours the meat will have yielded a good supply of gravy, and will be tender, if from the best part of the leg, and well hung; but the shin will take four hours. Add salt, and serve in a hot dish. The meat may be cooked in a stone jar in a slow oven, or in a “ water bath” over the fire. (Sec JfoGEi) Hare.) This is a good dish for busy days. Savoury dumplings, or rice or macaroni can be served with it.Brisket Stewed.—Take a piece of fresh brisket, of any required weight; take out the flat bones, wipe and flour the meat, and fry it brown in an ounco or two of dripping [see Ox Cheek,Rolled) ; and finish the cooking by the directions given in that recipe. If for a cold dish, the meat should be pressed. Few people, comparatively, are acquainted with the merits of a piece of beef of this description, stewed and served cold, boiling being so much more general; a moment’s considera- tion will, however, suffice to convince anyone that the chances arc in favour of the stewed joint being more tasty and tender. Brisket is often rolled; it must then receive double the usual time for cooking, whether fresh or salted ; it is then carved like a round of beef. It is desirable, in railing it, that a pickle containing sugar should be chosen. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. per pound. Chuck Ribs.—This is an excel- lent piece for boiling; and in the opinion of an American writer it is also one of the best pieces for braised, rolled, piquant, savoury, and a hundred other beef dishes, all familiar to thrift}' German housewives, and which should be more generally known, as they add variety to the daily menu. This may also be larded and served as is fillet of beef. It is quite acceptable as steak, with sauce Bordelaise, or any other, while the most exacting epicure would probably be content with chuck rib bones, when grilled or devilled. W'e would also recommend a trial of it, boned, rolled, and stewed; whether simple or elaborate, it will be found full of flavour, and very tender if the j rinciples of the method are carried out. bleaks may Ik: cut from chuck ribs after the part ha.s hung, but take caro that the steak does not hang after it is cut. A favourite* dish with some is a rib covered both sides with slices of raw bacon. laid in a stewpan with an ounce of melted butter or dnpping, and ex- posed to a quick heat fora few minutes; the pan is then removed to a cool part of the stove that the meat may cook gently. All sorts of herbs and spices arc sprinkled on, together with chopped onions or slialots; and sometimes a suspicion of garlic and a spoonful of flavoured vinegar are put in. Collops (German).—Required: ten ounces of lean beef, six ounces of young pork, two ounces of bread crumbs, an ounce of butter, a small shalot or a chive, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and an egg. Broth or bone stock in which to cook them is also wanted. Cost, about Is. Dissolve the butter, stir in the crumbs, seasoning, and a spoonful of broth, take from tho fire, and add the minced meat; stir well; the shalot should be chopped and browned in the butter, or some parsley can bo substi- tuted for it. Then bind with the egg, and form little balls, using the yolk only; beat up the whito and dip tho collops in, then put them into the broth, which must be boiling, and simmer them for half an hour, turning them as required. When done, thicken the sauce—there should bo a pint or more—and season it; then put in some sharp pickles, and sliced lemons in dice. Boil it up and pour round tho collops. KLores is the German name for these. Another way.—Flatten the balls into little cakes and cross-bar them with a skewer; brush over with the white of an egg, and cook in a mixture of light wine and broth. Dish in a wreath, with the gravy thickened and poured over, and some fried potatoes in the centre and round tho collops. These may be in any desired shapes. Collops, Savoury.—Required: two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and onions, a good pinch of powdered thyme and bay-leaf, tho juice of half a lemon, a tablespoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, a tcaspoonful of salt, and half as much popper, and a pound and half of tender beef steak. Cost, about Is. 8d.208 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Dissolve tho butter (or clarified dripping), add tho flour, and brown well; stir in all tho other seasonings, salt excepted, then put in tho steak, cut in half-inch squares ; stir it about to brown it, then pour in half a pint of hot stock (No. 1, 2, or 4), or the water from boiled meat, with a few drops of colouring. Cover the stew- pan, and simmer as gently as possible for about forty-five minutes. Add salt and servo on a hot dish. Cooked vegetables may be cut in fancy shapes, and used as a border to the dish. Unless first-class meat is used for this, much longer time must be given, and the steak should be beaten before it is cut up. Fillet, Roasted.—Take the fillet from a sirloin of beef and remove the fat; trim it noatly, and tie it in shape, then cover it with a sheet of white paper, spread with beef dripping, and roast or bake in the usual way, taking the paper off for tho meat to brown. Make gravy in tho tin, and put in a little glaze; the meat should bo brushed over with thin glaze, and garnished on tho top with scraped horse-radish. Horse-radish sauco should bo served in a boat. Cost of tho fillet separately, rather uncertain. Another way.—This is a savoury roast. Sprinkle some chopped herbs over tho paper after greasing it (say parsley, thyme, and bay-loaf, with a chopped onion, some colory and carrot, also chopped or sliced). Wrap the meat in the paper and tie it up ; lot it brown as above directed, then glaze it and serve some good gravy with it and any suitable vegetable puree ; or some braised or stewed vegetables can bo put about tho dish. Tomato sauce is excellent witli this dish ; then tomatoes should be used for garnishing. It should be remembered that when meat is wrapped in paper for cooking, tho basting process is reduced; but, unless tho paper is taken off in good time for the browning and crisping, there will bo a certain amount of greasiness. Flank, Boiled. — If the thin flank bo chosen, and it is not rolled, it will not take long to cook ; it is, there- fore, a good part to seleet if time be limited. It should bo put into boiling water, or weak stock, with the usual vegetables, and well skimmed; then simmered until done, about twenty minutes per pound ; a little salt should bo put in towardstheend of thecooking. Flank, salted and rolled, is excel- lent. Dumplings are suitably served with dishes of boiled beef, and rice boiled with it is very good; the flavour of tho rico is improved, and there is no waste, as what the rice yields to the. liquid is not thrown away (as is the case when boiled in water) but serves to enrich tho next day’s soup. Complaints of the insipidity of boiled meats are often heard, owing to the custom in some families of ser- ving them minus sauco or gravy, with no addition but tho pot liquor. This arises, perhaps, from the popular idea that it is not worth while to go to the trouble of making sauce for so plain a dish. We advise a trial of one of the many that will be found in the section devoted to Ghavies and Sauces; or, at least, of one made by thickening and flavouring some of tho meat liquor. The dish will then be vastly improved, at a very slightly increased cost. (See recipes later on.) French Ragout.—Select some of tho cheapest parts of beef for this, and for a pound, take also half a pound each of onions, carrots, celery, and po- tatoes, an apple, some stock, &c., as under. Cost, about Is. Cut up the hoof tho size of a walnut; lay tho pieces innate w-jar with the apple, chopped, the celery in dice, and the potatoes parboiled; put in a sprinkling of herbs and pepper, half a “ pastille de legume ” dissolved in a pint of any plain stock, and the onions and carrots, sliced, and fried brown in hot drip- ping. Cover the jar with a sheet of greased paper, then put the lid on, and cook in a gentle oven for three or four hours, according to the quality of thoBEEF. 209 meat. Add stilt to taste, and browned flour to thicken; boil up tiro gravy, and serve the whole in a hot deep dish. For a better dish, use double the quantity of meat to the samo weight of vegetables. A few chives, or a leek or two will improve the ragout. The scrapings of a bone from which steaks have been cut can often be bought cheaply, and answer admirably for such dishes as the foregoing; then less time is needed for the cooking. Frico (Spanish).—This is a very excellent dish, though it is a most economical one; care is needed in the preparation, then success is certain. Required: two pounds of lean beef, fillet, or any other juicy part if well hung and lean; two pounds of pota- toes, and one pound of Spanish onions, seasoning, butter, stock, and claret as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Cut the meat into thick pieces, of a couple of inches square: parboil the potatoes, and slice them thickly : slice the onions, and fry them a yellow colour in butter, for ten minutes or so, then put all into a jar, with onions top and bottom, together with the butter they were cooked in ; add pepper, no salt, and half a pint of stock, as No. 1 or 2, and a glass of claret; tie down with greased paper, and cover the jar with the lid. Cook in a “ water-bath ” (tee Jl'ogeii Hake), or in a gentle oven, setting the jar in a pan with hot water half the depth of the jar, the contents of which must not reach boiling point. In two to three hours the meat will be tender, then add salt to taste, nothing else, unless more pepper is needed, and serve in a hot, deep dish. If the meat is good, and the cooking slow enough, there will be plenty of gravy. Heart, Roasted. —After the heart haa hung for a day or two, wash it well, removing the pipe, and all trace of blood, then dry the cavities thoroughly, and fill with forcemeat; the plain herb, or veal stuffing is suit- able. (See Forcemeats.) Hew it up securely, and wrap it in a sheet of paper, well saturated with warm drip- ping. Hang it to roast, and cook slowly, with very frequent basting. Time, from three hours, according to size. Brown sauce or gravy, onion, celery, or tomato sauce or purfie may be served with this, and the dish garnished with vegetables, or they can be served se- parately. Bacon and forcemeat balls may be added. Another way.—This is very superior. Parboil the heart in weak stock before baking or roasting it. It can be stuffed as usual, and should be tied in a cloth. Take it up when half done, dry it, and wrap it in paper as above. Finish the cooking, and serve -with brown sauce or gravy, and red currant or any other fruit jelly. Or the boiling may be kept up until the last half hour: then the heart should be put before the fire until brown, and basted and floured like a joint. Kidney.—This makes a nice dish, if cire be exercised in its preparation and the length of time that is given to the cooking ; one extreme is as bad as the other, for if overdone, although less indigestible than when underdone, a kidney is very tasteless. Whatever the mode of cooking, the core must be removed (the core is the hard, fatty meat which runs along the kidney). After this, the kidney must be washed in cold water and vinegar, a table- spoonful to the pint, then dried. This treatment removes a certain strong, and rather unpleasant flavour, always to be found in an unwashed ox kidney. Cost, about 8d. per lb. Kidney to Broil.—Follow above directions, then cut the kidney into slices a quarter of an inch thick; brush both sides with warm buttor or clarified fat, pepper each piece, but do not salt them, then cook them in a Dutch oven, very gently, turning every minute, and servo each on a crouton or sippet of buttered toast: fir place the slices in a circle round a pile of mashed or fried potatoes. Any sauce which is suitable for steaks can300 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. be served with Ibis, or a tiny pat of maitre d'hotel butter may be put on each slice. Time, about a quarter of an hour. A much more digestible dish, as well as one of bettor flavour, may be ob- tained by soaking the kidney in a little warm stock, before cutting and broiling it. Kidney with Haricots.—Re- quired : a beef kidney, a pint of small, white haricot beans, a carrot, an onion, and tho outside sticks of a head of celery, seasoning, thickening, and a little vinegar and dripping. Cost, about Is. 2d. Soak the beans, put them in an earthen stew-jar, with a quart of cold water, or stock No. 1 or 2, an ounce of dripping, and a sprig of parsley and thyme. Cook them in the oven for an hour, then add the celery and onion, very finely sliced or minced, and tho carrot, grated ; return to the oven for another hour, then put in tho kidney in thin slicos. Give about tliroo quarters of an hour more cooking, then season to taste, and serve in a deep, hot dish. Tho vinegar is to be added to the water for washing tho kidney, and instead of slicing it, it can bo cut into thick pieces, and added with tho vege- tables to the stew; in this way it is loss likely to become hard. A small apple, grated, is a further improve- ment. Kidney with Peas. — Some peas-pudding and pork should be pre- pared in tho usual way, and for each two pounds of pork an ox kidney should be allowed. In dishing, turn the pudding on a dish, and put round it the kidney, first cut in slices, and stewed in stock, which must be seasoned, browned and thickened. Serve some of the gravy in a separate tureen. Liver, for Gravy.—Mi* half a pound of moist sugar with two tablespoon fills of salt, llub tho liver well with this mixture, lay it in a shallow pan, and turn it and rub it every day for a week. Make a pickle by boiling a pound of Balt and an ounce and a half of saltpetre in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour. Pour it when cold over the liver, and let it remain in the pickle for six weeks, turning it every other day. Take it out, drain it well, and hang it in a cool place. When dry, it is ready for use. The liver should be cured in cold weather. When gravy is required, cut about four ounces of the liver into thin slices. Add a quart of cold water and any other suitable ingredients, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Strain and serve after thickening it. Salt will not bo needed. Instead of using the liver in this way for a se- parate gravy, a small quantity may be added to plain stews, to flavour and colour the gravy; the liver must be taken out before the meat is dished. Drain tho liver from the salt aud sugar, before pouring tho brine over it. Liver, Stewed.—This can be fried in tho same way as tho liver of tho calf or sheep, but is hard to digest; if that method is adopted, wo advise that it be stowed until nearly done, then floured, and plunged iuto hot fat to brown and crisp it; but if the “dry” method be more convenient, the cooking must be very slow. To stew it, cut it after washing, in half- inch slices, and put it, with half its weight of fried onions, in plain gravy [.see (inaw roil Stews), and give it from an hour to two hours. It is not desirable to overcook it, and it is sometimes done in an hour. After the gravy has been finished off, it should be served, preferably with bacon, and a wall of mashed potatoes or other vegetables round tho dish. Cost, about 4d. or 5d. per pound. Parsley or sage will improvo tho stew, and a bay-leaf is a good addition. Marrow Bones.—Saw the bones into equal lengths, and secure both ends with a flour-and-water paste ; tie a floured cloth over, and boil for two hours. Tho water should bo boilingBEEF. 301 when thej’ go in. The doth and pasto should then be taken off, and a napkin pinned round tho bones, which should be put upright on a hot dish, covered with a napkin. Serve quickly, and as hot as possible. Marrow is much relished by epicures; it is, however, very often digested with difficult}’. Its nourishing properties are the same as those of fats generally. There are other ways of serving marrow than in tho bones. (See recipes under Sa- vouries.) Marrow bones are generally weighed and sold with the silver-side of the round. Olives.—Required : beef, season- ing, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Cut two pounds of rump-steak into thin slices, and beat well with a rolling- pin to make it tender. Lay over each a seasoning of chopped herbs, pepper and salt; roll up the pieces separately, and tie round with a narrow tape. Put in a stewpan one ounce of butter, two ounces of bacon, cut in thin slices, some chopped parsley, and enough stock to make gravy. Put the rolls of steak in the stewpan, pressing them closely together; cover with a piece of white paper, and stew gently from two to three hours. When sufficiently tender, thicken the gravy with brown thicken- ing, or flour and serve. A few drops of mushroom ketchup, or good store sauce, will improve this dish. If inferior steak, or freshly-killed meat is used, sprinkle it with vinegar a few hours before cooking. (For other recipes see Entrees and Made Dishes.) Olives with Hominy.—Boil some hominy as for Porridge: pour some plain stock over, and cook until it lees absorbed it; season nicely, and put the olives, as above, in tho middlo of a dish, with the hominy round it. Over the latter put a little Cheese Sauce, ami coat it with browned crumbs. This is a very savoury dish. An ounce of hominy should be allowed for every two olives. Bice can be used in the same way, and various other sauces will serve. By some a nice brown sauce flavoured with cheese would be relished. Cost, about 2s. 9d. Ox Brains.—After very careful washing and drying, these may be boiled in seasoned stock until firm enough to slice; they should then be egged and crumbed, and fried. The stock in which they are boiled may be freed from fat, and converted into gravy to serve with them. Ox Brains, Baked.—Skin the brains, and steep for half an hour in a little warm stock; then dry, and bake in the oven, or before the fire with a little chipping or bacon fat to haste with, for about half an hour. If par- boiled, less time will do. Serve with fried potatoes and bacon, or with fried mushrooms or tomatoes, and strips of ham or bacon. Ox Cheek, Boned and Boiled. —Required : an ox cheek, seasoning, dripping, vegetables, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s., hut variable. After the cheek has been washed and soaked, take the eye out, dry the cheek, and take the moat off the hone neatly. Then lay it outside down on a hoard, scrape the hone, if any bits of meat are sticking to it, lay these on the cheek, then dredge it over with pepper, a dust of grated nutmeg, and powdered herbs; half a teaspoonful or so mixed, together with a tablespoon- ful of freshly-chopped parsley. Roll it up tightly, and bind with tape; string is often used, but tho shape suffers, and the meat is not so nice. Next, melt four ounces of beef dripping in an iron saucepan ; when hot, put the meat in and brown it well; give it a quarter of an hour, and turn it often. Then pour off the fat, add stock (No. 1 j or 2), just warm, to cover tho meat; boil up and skim, thon put in vege- tables, herbs, and spices of tho usual kind for stows, and simmer steadily for three to four hours. Thicken and flavour some of tho liquor for gravy, 1 and serve the vegetables with thoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 302 moat; or reserve them, with the rest of the liquor, for soup, &c. Brown Rice or Macaroni, Hominy Fritters, or Suet Dumplings may be put round the dish; or pickles of any kind can be sent separately to table. The moat is excellent, when cold, for breakfast, &c. If time is limited, the cheek may be cooked unboned. It must be laid in a large boiling pot. For a very plain dish, water can be used instead of stock. Ox Cheek, Potted. —See Ox Cheek Sour. Put the meat (or as much as may be loft over after serving it either in the soup, or as a sepa- rate dish) on a warm dish, and cut it up small; keep the dish over hot water, or set it near the fire—the pro- cess is thereby assisted. Mix on a plate, supposing a pound to a pound and a half of meat, a small teaspoonful of salt and celery-salt mixed, a good pinch each of black pepper, ground cloves, and allspico, a small pinch of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of herbs in fine powder; mix this thoroughly with the moat. Put a gill and a half of stock in a saucepan, boil it down to a third; moisten the moat with it, and press it in a mould or brawn tin. (See Brawn.) Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. This is nice for making sandwiches or for breakfast. Horse-radish scraped, and fresh parsley, aro suitable for gar- nishing it. In all dishes of this kind, “ second stock,” or some equally strong, should be used if possible. If not firm when cold, the meat will not keep so well, especially in warm weather. Ox Palates.—Ox palates may be served in three or four different ways, but they always require the same pre- paration. They deserve to be better known than they aro, as they are both inexpensive and wholesome. Three or four are enough for a dish. To pre- pare them, dissolve a handful of suit in a gallon of lukewarm water, put in the palates, let them lie for several hours, and press them frequently with the fingers to draw out the mucus. Drain them, and put them in a sauce- pan of cold water over a gentle fire. Let them heat gradually, and before the water boils lift them out and scrape off the horny skin which covers the roof-part until they look white and clear. If the water boils, the skin will be difficult to peel off. (See Made Dishes. ) Ox Tails.—These are so dirty as a rule, that they need soaking as well as washing; a rub with salt assists in removing the dried blood. They should bo dried with a cloth before cooking in any way, and for delicato dishes they must be blanched by put- ting on in tepid, or if very dirty, cold water, and brought to the boil; this water is then to be thrown away ; the slight loss of nutriment entailed by this process is sometimes really neces- sary. When the tail is to be fried before stewing or braising, the washing should be done some time before that the tail may be dry ; it will then brown well. When tails are cheap, as they aro in some towns, they afford a vory nourishing and economical dish ; when two or three shillings is asked for them they become a luxury for the few. Ox Tail, Broiled.—After wash- ing and jointing, boil the tail in the stock-pot until it is quite tender. The tail will taste better than if boiled in water, and the stock will be improved. Then take it up, and after it has drained, season it, and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; put a few bits of butter or dripping on, and cook in a Dutch oven until brown. Serve a nice sauce, gravy, or vegetable puree with it. Cost of tail, very uncertain. The thick joint of the tail is best cut through; sec below. Ox Tail, Stewed.—This is a plain method. Just cover the tail with stock No. 1 or 2, while warm; add a nice mixture of the usual vegetables, sliced or in dice, and somo herbs, and after skimming, cook for about three hours; some cloves and peppercornsBEEF. 303 should be put in at first. Then season and thicken, put in a little sauce, and boil up; the vegetables can be sieved, or left behind, just as preferred. If the tail be Homed and fried a little with an onion bofore stewing, it will be much better. Another way.—Fry tho tail, and 11 cook it in stock No. 4; then, when done, thicken the gravy, and garnish the dish with vegetables cut in dice and boiled separately. Or serve a puree of onions, mushrooms, celery, or tomatoes with it. It is desirable that the thick part of the tail be cut through in the contrary dhection ; otherwise, the thin pieces will be done too much by the time that is ready. Ribs, Roasted. — The best piece to roast is the fore-rib, and it should be hung for two or three days before being cooked. The ends of the ribs should be sawn off, the outside fat fastened with skewers, and the strong Fio. 74.—Kies or Beer. sinew and chine bones removed. The joint should first be placed near the fire, and drawn further back until done. Haste'freely with clarified drip- ping at first, as there will not bo suffi- cient fat when first put down ; dredge with flour a quarter of an hour bofore taking it up. Care must bo taken not to allow it to bum, as it is very easily spoiled. Serve with horse-radish sauce. Probable cost, lUd. to Is. per pound. Time, about fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over. To carve ribs of beef, a sharp knife is necessary, and if it is run along between the meat and the bones, tho carving will bo more cleanly and quickly done. The slices should be thin, and out from a to b as shown in tho illustration. Unless this is well carved, it is a wasteful joint, and it is more economical to cut the end off to a greater extent than is usually done, or it becomes dry and overdone by the time the thick part is cooked. This can be boiled fresh, or may be salted separately, or with another lean piece of meat, and if the two are cooked and eaten together a very good dish for breakfast may be had at little cost and trouble. If, however, the butcher is requested, he will cut the rib short | before sending it home, but a trifle | more per pound must be paid for it if tho thin end is not taken. [See dotted line in the illustra- tion. It indicates the portion which may advantageously be removed.) Rolla Cheese.—Pequired: two pounds of tripe, the same weight of beef skirt, seasoning and stock, vegetables to flavour. Cost, about Us. 9d. The tripe must bo prepared in the usual way, then cut into pieces about three inches square, and laid on a board, the rough ^ side of tho meat upwards; sea- son with salt and pepper, first mixing them, allowing a lon- spoonful of salt and half as much popper to each pound of meat. Then out tho skirt into pieces rather smaller, take the skin off, lay a piece on each piece of tripe, season it, and roll up; tie the rolls with twine, and drop them into hot stock, with a bit of fresh vegetable to flavour. Boil gently until quite tender, then put file rolls on a board, and press them until cold. Serve with any sharp sauce, and keep tho rolls in a dish304 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. with a little vinegar, if not all required at onco. Round, Roasted. — Hang the meat as long as possible ; the upper side ; the silver side is to be removed. The fat must be drawn over, and skewered, or bound with tape. For the cooking, see the following recipe. This may be baked, so may the rump, quite well with care. (See chapter on Bakino.) In localities where coals are very dear, a large joint, roasted at an open fire, is in some families an almost unknown luxury ; and many, under the impression that baked meats are not good, confine themselves al- most entirely to boiled joints. Every day brings some improvements in ovens, and many quite large ones may be economically heated. Those who can indulgo but seldom in a roast should, therefore, take pains to perfect their baked meats. The above, baked, and well basted—it cannot be basted too much—served with a large thin Yorkshire Pudding, and some sauce, hot or cold horse-radish, and plenty of gravy, is a most excellent dish while hot, and a very useful one when cold. Rump, Roasted. - Take as much as may be wanted from the chump end ; tie it evenly, and cook ns a sirloin. It can I e boned and rolled, bill will take much longer. 11 requires a steady fire, lots of basting and good gravy, and must be from a prime animal. The longer it can hang tho more tender it will bo. It can also bo baked. (‘See remarks above; serve it with the same adjuncts.) Savoury Beef, Stewed.—Re- quired : some lean beef, six pounds or so, from the top of tho leg, a teacupful of brown vinegar, bacon, Ac., as below. Cost, about 3s. fid. to 4s. fid. Cut the meat in a neat square shape, boil the vinegar with a bit of mace, a dozen allspice berries, and black pep- percorns, an inch of stick ginger, and a few cloves ; after boiling, let it stand till cold, then strain tho vinegar over tho beef on a dish. Turn and baste daily for four days, then lard it, by rolling some bacon, cut in thick strips, into ground herbs and mixed spices, and pushing it into holes made with a wooden skewer all over the moat. Lay it in a pot that will just hold it, put in three ounces of blitter, and a good plateful of vegetables, mixed as for soup, and some herbs ; cover, and cook for twenty minutes, turning a few times, then add a pint of stock from beef bones, and some whole spices, and stew for nearly throe hours, turning and basting every half hour. If to be served hot, add more stock, thicken and serve round it. If for a cold dish, let it cool in the gravy, then set aside until quite cold and set,when it can be glazed, or served plainly for breakfast. It makes excellent sandwiches, salads, ire. During the cooking, more stock must be added to keep up the quantity. This is a German dish. Fig. 75.—SincoiN of Beef. Sirloin, To Carve. —A sirloin should be cut with one good firm stroke from end to end of tho joint, at the upper portion, making the cut very clean and oven from a it to c. Then disengage it from tho hone by a horizontal cut exactly to tho bone, it to n, using tho tip of tho knife. Even- slice should bo clean and oven, and the sirloin should cut fairly to the very end. Many persons cut tho under side whilst hot, not reckoning it so good cold ; but this is a matter of taste, and so is the mode of carving it. The best way is first of all to remove the fat e, which chops up well to make puddings, if not eaten at table. Thenr.KF.F. 305 the under part can be cut, as already described, from oud to end, f to g, or downwards, as shown by the marks at h. The latter is the more general method, and the slices should be rather thick; those from the top should be thin. If only the fillet is eaten while hot, the top of the joint should be glazed, and the dish garnished with fresh parsley and scraped horse-radish ; it will then furnish a most appetising cold dish. Sirloin, To Roast.—The time given to this joint must depend mainly on the taste of those who partake of it, for while many prefer it very much under-done, others like every part thoroughly cooked : in the latter case, it is then not easy to prevent the end becoming rather over-done. If the fire is fierce, a piece of greased paper should be tied over the end at first, and removed in time for the meat to brown nicely. With a moderate fire, or if the meat is baked, this precaution is not necessary. The meat should be dished with a little gravy round it, the rest served in a tureen; some horse- radish sauce, and a Yorkshire pudding, with sprouts and potatoes, are favourite accompaniments for a plain, family dinner. The top of a sirloin is sometimes taken from the hone, and rolled; the Hap should be inside, and the meat tied with tape, and skewered firmly. It is then e;isy to carve, hut will take rather longer to cook, about twenty to twenty-three minutes per pound. In serving it, proceed as if cutting a round of beef. The fat and lean being fairly distributed, there is practically no waste, and the meat can ho evenly carved to the bottom. The remains will then make a nice jar of potted meat, or a little dish of mince. Shirts. — These are very good grilled, fried, or stewed: they should always be skinned. liy either of the first named methods, they may be quickly cooked. If dipped in oil before grilling or broiling,and sprinkled with pepper, they are very delicious. If fried, they can he cut in strips, and cooked by immersion in fat, or left in large pieces, and cooked by the Day Fuying process. If the gravy is made in the pan, a little ketchup or sauce can be added. Some will prefer them plain, or with a pat of butter only. An entire skirt, skinned and peppered, and folded over a time or two, then tied up to resemble a little joint, and cooked before the firo or in a sharp oven, is very delicious with horse- radish sauce, and mashed or fried potatoes. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. per pound, and wo would strongly advise the purchase of skirts if it is a ques- tion between them and inferior steaks ; for the skirts will he tender and of good flavour; the same cannot be said of steaks, unless of the best. Skh’ts with Kidney and Mushrooms.—Kequired: an ox kid- ney, a pound of beef skirts, a pound of mushrooms, seasoning, and a quart of plain stock, or gravy, as given for stews. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. fid. Cut the skirt and kidney up, and brown them in a spoonful of melted dripping; add the stock, skim, and putin the prepared mushrooms, broken up; stew for forty or fifty minutes, thicken, season, and add a few drops of browning, and serve hot, with a border of toasted or fried bread cut in triangles. To increase the flavour, wash the peelings of the mushrooms, and boil them down in a little stock or water; strain, and add to the stew. This dish will prove that a small quantity of meat may be made to go a long way by judicious treatment, and will be all the nicer if some fried bacon be used in garnishing it. Steak.—This can only bo eaten in perfection in cold weather, because in summer the meat cannot he hung long enough to become tender. The chief faults of steaks are insufficient thick- ness, and an over-cooked condition; indeed, some steaks can only he de- scribed as horny; the dish is then very wasteful, and extremely indigestible.306 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. The most economical way for a family to obtain steaks, is to hang tho meat, and cut it as required; and when joints aro kept hanging, this can easily be done, and the required thickness and tenderness are assured. Yet, as it is possible to spoil an otherwise tender steak in the cooking, care is always necessary. Under the head of Grill- ing we have given instructions for that process, and we would here repeat the advice that when the frying pan is resorted to, the aim should be to imitate as far as possible the grilling process. (See Dry Frying.) It is always an improvement to give a steak a coat- ing of oil, or clarified fat, good beef dripping for instance, before cooking ; needless almost to point out, the fat should be liquid and quite hot. Steak and Onions.—In many cookery books the recipe for the above dish directs that tho steak be fried, then kept warm, while the onions are fried in the same pan. Bearing in mind, however, the universally ac- knowledged fact that a steak, like a chop, should be served as soon as done, wo think that tho better way is to fry the onions in one pan, while the stoak is cooked in another; or to broil or grill the steak, while tho onions are fried; so timing them, that both may bo done together. (See Onions, Fried.) Anothor way is to fry the onions a little, then take them up, and fry the meat a little, just to brown the sur- face ; then to drain off tho fat, and put a layer of onions at the bottom of the pan, then tho stoak, and a thick cover- ing of onions on the top. The addition of a gill of stock, supposing a pound each of meat and onions, and a sprink- ling of salt and pepper, and an hour’s gentle simmering (more or less accord- ing to the ago of the onions, and the quality of the steak) will convert this into a very tasty and digestible dish. Still another way for this old-fashioned favourite is to cook the sliced onions in a shallow tin, in a sharp oven, while the meat is cooked: or small onions, baked or stewed, may be served instead, Many other combinations of steak and vegetables may be prepared on the above lines. Steak, Fried.—Cut the steak an inch or a trifle less in thickness ; if too fat, trim off any that is not likely to be eaten, and add it to the fat which is to be used for frying, &c.; pepper and flour it a little, then lay it in a clean frying pan, in which an ounce of clari- fied fat has been heated. It must be quite hot, but not burnt; a watchful eye is very important, as so small a quantity quickly changes from the right degree of heat to a burnt condi- tion. After a minute or less on one side, turn on the other, then raise the pan, and turn often until done. Bo- member that the better the meat the quicker may be the cooking. Give from eight to fifteen minutes, accord- ing to thickness, quality, weather, and whether liked well-done or much under-done. Generally, it is right when the gravy clots on tho surface, and the meat is firm to the touch. (See Dry Frying for further details of the final treatment.) Steak in Gravy.—This has the merit of extreme simplicity, and is usually much enjoyed. Take a thick steak, not less than an inch and a half, and a pound or rather more in weight: pepper it on both sides, and flour it slightly. Then put it in a firo-proof china stew jar, with two or three tablespoonfuls of beef gravy. Cook it in a gentle oven for an hour and a half, more or less according to quality, &c. It should be turned when half done, and salt added ten minutes before it is taken up. A thick mutton steak from tho leg is excellent in the same way. A simply-cooked vegetable should be served with this, and if there is any suspicion of toughness, a toaspoonful of French vinegar should be added to tho meat, but if well hung, and cooked gradually, it is almost certain to bo tender. Steak. Roasted. — In smallREEF. 307 families, where little joints aro the rule, a nice, thick steak, say two inches, and two pounds in weight, will afford a nice little roast, or it may bo baked. In either case, pepper and flour it ; baste it well at starting; give it a few minutes’ sharp cooking, then reduce the heat. It will take about forty minutes, less if liked under-done. It can also be nicely cooked in a saucepan. (See Heart Roasted in a Saucepan.) If cut rather thinner, it may be spread with veal stuffing, then rolled and tied with tape, and covered with a buttered paper-, and cooked as above. A morsel of anchovy paste, or a spoonful of essence will improve the stuffing. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. Stewed Beef.—This is an ex- cellent recipe. Required : six pounds of lean meat, half a pound of fat salt pork, a turnip, a carrot, a parsnip, an onion, an apple, a tablespoonful each of salt, French vinegar, store sauce, and tomato pulp, six pints of hot water, a teaspoonful of mixed spice, a sprig each of thyme, parsley, marjoram, and a bay leaf, and a saltspoonful of celery seed. The last named, with the herbs, to be tied up in a muslin bag. Cost, about 4s. 6d. to 5s. Cut the meat fr om the shoulder, and divide the pork into strips; push them in the meat until lost to sight, and brown the vegetables in a little hot dripping. Put in all the rest, salt excepted, bring to the boil, and put in the meat; give it three hours’ cooking, or more if necessary. The apple can be grated, or cut up. Cover the stewpan, and put an iron or weight on the lid to keep in the steam ; when half done turn the meat, cover again, and at the end of the time thicken the liquor with browned floor, until like good cream ; add the salt and a little cayenne, and serve some of the gravy with the meat. Keep the rest back ; with the sieved vegetables it will make a nice tureen of soup. A teaspoonful of brown sugar may be added when there is fear that the meat will be tough ; it will improve it considerably. If from the leg, or | shin, longer time must be allowed than for the shoulder. Stewed Beef, Welsh. —Re- quired : meat, vegetables, &c. Cost, variable, but an economical dish. After bringing the meat and gravy to the boil, in the proportion of a pint to a poimd, some leeks and young turnips should be put in, in time to be tender by the end of the cooking : chopped parsley is essential, and a thickening of rice or barley must not bo forgotten. All stews containing barley need care- ful watching and stirring, to prevent burning. If convenient, the barley may be separately parboiled, in plain water or stock, and added to the stew to finish, with the liquid in which it was cooked. A grated carrot is a * further improvement to this. The stew should be quite thick with vege- tables. It resembles the Scotch dish called Hotch Potch. Stuffed and Stewed Beef.— Required: meat, stuffing, and vege- tables, &c., as below. Cost, about 3s. 3d., exclusive of adjuncts. Take the bone from a piece of beef of four pounds weight, the upper part of the shin, then fill it with ve;il stuffing, or use any other kind preferred. Put the meat on a soup plate, and set it in a large saucepan on the top of a weight, or any- thing that will raise itafow inchesabovo the bottom of the saucepan. Then poui- in hot water, just to create steam. On the top of the meat put some slices of Spanish onion, and a few ounces of bacon cut in strips; just moisten with a tablcspoonful of vinegar, and a little bone stock. Cover, and cook until tho meat is done, about four hours, then serve with any nice gravy or sauce, and the liquid from tho plate added to it. The water must bo renewed as required, and must bo kept out of tho plate; a round shallow baking tin answers equally well. This is a most excellent dish, tender, and of good flavour; a dish of rico or vegetables should bo served with it. instead of a weight, a moat stand can bo used, or a stand such as is usedUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 308 for irons, and an oval tin will serve instead of a round plate or tin. In short, the materials employed are capable of variation ; the thing to grasp is the principle. The water should boil steadily the whole time, and if of sufficient depth, dumplings may be boiled, and served with the meat. Marrow dumplings are very good. Sweetbreads. — Much depends upon the condition of the animal, whether those are, or are not, worth the cooking ; sometimes they are good if carefully cooked, but, at the best, are naturally of a stronger and coarser nature than those of other animals. They must ho trimmed, and boiled in • a little stock, seasoned with herbs, vegetables, and spice ; then they may be fried or broiled. The juice of a lemon may bo served with them, or a piquant gravy or sauce. Or they can be curried, or added to a dish of stewed ox cheek, or some similar preparation. They can also be served with liver. Tripe.—There are five kinds of tripe, viz., the blanket or double, the honeycomb, monk’s hood, reed, and another, oaten only in Scotland. The double and honeycomb are generally most highly esteemed, and sold at the highest price. Tripe is nourishing and very easily digested. As sold at the tripe shops it is usually dressed, and only requires re-heating, or rather re-cooking (in one of the various ways in which it may be served) as it is seldom boiled enough. If bought in the raw state, it must bo soaked in salt and water for some hours, then steeped for a short time in hot water with a morsel of soda in. It is then ready for scraping, after which it is blanched, then boiled. In our recipes, dressed tripe is referred to ; i.c. tripe cooked until almost done. Cost of tripe varies ; it is generally from Gd. to 'Jd. per pound, according to kind. {Sec Index, for recipes other than the following.) Tripe and Onions. Uoquiiod: tripe, onions, seasoning, milk, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. inclusive. Have ready a couple of pounds of tripe, with enough of the liquor to cover it; bring to the boil, and add a pound or more of onions in quarters or halves, and cook until they are tender. If very large, parboil the onions separately. Add towards the end of the cooking about half-a-pint of milk, mixed with an ounce and a half or more of flour; boil up, cook for ten minutes longer, season to taste, and servo on a hot dish. The tripe should be in convenient pieces for serving, and the onions and gravy poured over it. For a plainer dish, thicken the tripe liquor, and omit the milk. Celery can bo used instead of onions. Another way.—Boil the tripe in its liquor until done, and have ready a pint or more of onion sauce for each pound. Drain the tripe, and pour the onion sauce all over it. Serve as hot as possible. Another way.—Prepare onion sauce as above, hut make it a trifle thinner, and simmer the tripe in it for about a quarter of an hour, after it lias been previously boiled until tender. This dish is excellent; the tripe gains in flavour, and the sauce is improved by the tripe. Fried onions, mixed with thickened brown stock, may be used instead of ordinary onion sauce for a change. In this form, a little piquant store sauce or ketchup improves it. Tripe, Baked.—Required: tripe, vegetables, and stock as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. Cut a pound of parboiled tripe into fingers, pack in a jar with minced celery and onions (the latter fried a little) ; add herbs, and pot liquor to cover, and cook for an hour or more, liice is a good thickening medium. Season nicely, and add a dash of vinegar and browning. A few strips of lean ham or bacon improve this dish. Tripe, Fried.—Cold tripe, cut into fingers and coated with baiter, or beaten eggs and bread crumbs, thenBEEP. ?09 fried ci'isp and brown in enough hot fat to cover, is a very good dish. Fried onions are a common adjunct, hut other vegetables may bo usod. A piquant gravy or sauce may bo served, together with sweet pickles or chutney. This is less digestible than boiled tripe. Tripe in its own liquor.— This is a simple and favourite mode of serving. Tire tripe i3 re-heated in tile liquor, just as it comes from the shop ; onions are boiled in the liquor, or apart, or baked, or fried, and served with it; potatoes are also a common accompani- ment. The liquor is often made piquant by vinegar, mustard, and herbs of some sort, such as sage or parsley. Some per- sons prefer to dispense altogether with the original tripe liquor, and re-heat it in fresh stock, mixed with a small quan- tity of milk ; a bay leaf and an onion, with a sprig of thyme and parsley, improve tire flavour. Tripe in Savoury Batter.— This is very nice. (See Toad in the Hole.) Use about a pound of cooked tripe in fingers, to a quart of hatter, made savoury with salt, pepper, and herbs. (See Puddings.) When baked, put a layer of fried onions on the top, and serve hot in squares. Cost, about Is. 6d. _ Tripe with. Tomatoes and Spinach.—Required : two pounds of tripe, a tin of tomatoes, a Spanish onion, and someplainlydresscdspinach. Cost, about 2s. 4d. The tripe should he boiled until done, and cut in pieces ready for ser- ving. l’ut the contents of the tin of tomatoes through a colander into a suticejian; add salt and pepper after the pulp has boiled up; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and put in tiic onion, first chopped vory small, and scalded : boil for ten minutes. Then thicken with an ounco of Hour and butter, lay in the tripe, and in a quarter of an hour dish it, with tho spinach in little heaps round tho dish. For a superior dish, lay a poached egg on each hod of spinach, and put little rolls of fried bacon in between. Tx’ipe with Vegetables.— Required : tripe, vegetables, apples, seasoning, &c. Cost, about Is. (id., for a pound of tripe, &c. An American breakfast dish. Tho tripe must ho boiled the day before it is wanted, and pressed between two dishes. When required, cut it in strips or squares, season with salt and popper, and then dip in beaten egg, in which a little French mustard has been mixed. Coat with cracker crumbs, and fry in hot fat until brown. Have the vege- tables ready, round a hot dish. They should consist of sliced, grilled toma- toes, see Grilled Tomatoes, Ameri- can ; and carrots and turnips, par- boiled and fried; see recipes. These may he in slices or any fancy shapes. Here and there, amongst the vege- tables, put a little heap of apple puree, prepared as follows:—Bake two large apples in their skins—supposing a pound of tripe—scoop out the pulp, and mix in a little white sugar, a pinch of allspice, and ground ginger, and a dust of cayenne. Or, instead of the above way, spread the slices of tomato with this mixture. Serve very hot, and send chutney to table with it. We need scarcely say that this dish is as palatable at any othor meal as at breakfast; and would add that fried onions, in place of tho carrots and turnips, furnish a pleasant variety, which will commend itself to thosu who indulge in our well known dish of tripe with onion sauce.310 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. VEAL. Veal is considered best when the animal is from two to three or four months old. The flesh of the bull calf is most suitable for joints, being firmer in grain, and fuller in flavour, but the cow calf is whiter, and there- fore preferred for many dishes; the fillet, too, is esteemed on account of the udder, which is largely used for forcemeat, particularly by French cooks. In choosing veal, look out for a nice coloured flesh, freo from bruises, and the fat of a pinkish white; a small kidney, well surround 11 " ‘ sweet to the smell, and firm to the touch, with no spots or blemishes: the same remarks apply to the sweetbread. Veal has a tendency to turn very quickly, and is most unwholesome if the least tainted; it should not be kept- more than a day or two in hot weather, though, if eaten quite fresh, it is apt to be tough. To assist it in keeping, the pipe should be taken from the loin, the skirt taken from the breast, and the inside wiped and floured. It is a good plan to put it in boiling water for a few minutes, then in cold, until it is cool; dry it, and hang it in the coolest part of the house until wanted. No meat is more generally useful for gravies, soups, and made dishes; and none is more insipid in itself, and consequently more dependent upon judicious seasoning. With regard to the digestibility of veal, the opinion amongst medical and other authorities seems to be almost universal, that the suffering proves good condition. The suet in the region of the kidney sometimes caused by it is duo, for the most part, to its highly gelatinous nature, as this renders mastication difficult: and thero seems good reason for the belief, when one remembers that many people can eat braised or stowed veal without discomfort, who suffer from a meal of roast veal, particularly if eaten cold. At any rate, there seems no reason to think that there is anything in the composition of the flesh itself which should give rise to suffering, where it can be perfectly mas- ticated. Here, as elsewhere, each must be a law unto himself. (See also Invalid Cookery.) 1. The Loin. 2. The Chump, consisting of the rump and hock bone. 3. The Fillet. 4. The Hind-knuckle. 5. The Fore-knuckle. 6. The Neck. 7. The Breast. 8. The Shoulder. To these must bo added the head and feet, and the pluck, which consists of the heart, liver, lights, milt, skirt, nut, and the sweetbreads : of the latter there are two, one from the throat, and the other called the heart sweetbread, the larger and dearer, if sold alone. The annexed diagram shows the usual method of cutting up a calf:— rump and hock bone. Hind-knuckle. 5. Th Pio. 76.—Calf, Joint- ing OF. .311 VEAL. Wo would Again urge tint importance of long, slow cooking. A joint of veal, with the slightest appearance of rawness, will prove unwhole- some ; it should bo of au uniform whiteness right through to tho bone; and, in order that the colour may be preserved, veal should never be laid upon a dish before cooking for any length of time; the very pressure causes, not only discolouration, but taint. This may be said to au extent of all meat, lint especially emphasised in the case of veal. See also Stocks, Soups, Sauces, Entrees, &c., Cold Meat Cookery, Pastry, Pies and Puddings, and Invalid Cookery. Calf’s Brains.—See page 237. Calf’s Brains, Cakes of.— See Sheep’s Brains, and make tho cakes as there given, using the herbs that are generally employed for veal force- meat. (See also Brain Fritters.) Calf’s Chitterlings (Praise or Crow).—These are the different names given to the fat round the stomach of the calf, which forms in some parts a favourite dish First wash and cleanse them very thoroughly ; leave them for twelve hours in salt and water, then put in boiling water for twenty minutes, dip in cold water, and drain them. Cut them up in small pioces, and put in a boiling pot, with a few slices of bacon, a small onion, a clove or two, a little salt, some peppercorns, and a hay leaf. Add some weak stock, and boil until done, then reduce the gravy, thicken and flavour with vine- gar or lemon juice—or make parsley sauce, or any other kind preferred— and serve very hot. Cost uncertain, often very cheap. Another ica>j. When nearly done, take up the chitterlings, and coat with thick, plain batter ; fry crisp, and serve with fried paisley. Sometimes they are Liken up when half boiled, then brushed with bacon fat or drip- ping, and baked brown. Brown gravy should be served with them, or a brown sauce. Calf’s Bars. — Take as many' ears as may he wanted; they should be cut rather deeply, then scalded to remove the hair, and most thoroughly cleansed. For a plain dish, they may be boiled until tender in water or stock, or in equal parts of milk and water; or, when half done, they can be taken up, and stuffed with any forcemeat suitable for veal, and tied up with thread. Then put them in a stewpan with some of tho liquor in which they were parboiled, and finish the cooking, flavouring and thickening in the usual way. Or they can be put hack in the pot, and finished off, then drained, and served with a nice sauce, or puree of vegetables and gravy, and tho liquor reserved for soup. AVhcn elaborately dressed they are served as an entree. Calf’s Feet. — Calf’s foot aro generally prepared for boiling by the butcher; but if this is not done, they should be put into water j list upon the point of boiling, and kept in it for two or three minutes, when the hair must be scraped off, tho hoofs knocked off on the edge of the sink, the claws split, and the fat that is between them taken away. They must then bo washed with scrupulous care and nicety, first in salt and water; they should then bo loft under running water for a time. When required very white, they should bo bleached, by putting them in cold water with a pinch of salt, and bringing them to the boil, then rinsing them in cold water. This is also called blanching. Itemombcr in cooking by boiling, &o., to put them on in hot or boiling stock or water, if tho nutriment is to hoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 312 retained ; when for jelly, they must go on in cold water. They cannot bo boiled too slowly, and tho time should bo from three to four hours when tho meat is to bo served, and much longer when the extraction of all the golatino is the chief object. Cost, from 4d. to od. each generally. Calf’s Feet with Sauce. {See the Kecipes for Calf’s Feet Soup.)— Serve tho feet, or part of them, and make a sauce by thickening a portion of the soup, and adding any nice store sauce, or some pickles ; or servo either of the brown piquant sauces given in Hot Sauces. If white sauce is pre- ferred, fennel, parsley, caper, lemon, celery, or onion, may bo used. It should be poured over tho feet, and bo thick enough to coat them. If the bones are all removed tho feet are more con- veniently served. Remember to give tho bones a further cooking for “ socond stock.” Calf’s Head.—For the prepara- tion of this, see tho recipe for Mock Turtle Soup. If the head is wanted for dinner, put it, after washing, in a saucepan, with well cleansed vegetables in slices (as tur- nips, carrots, onions, and celory), a bunch of herbs, and some white pep- percorns, and enough boiling water to cover it. Boil up, adding a pinch of salt, and carefully remove any scum. Then cook steadily, skimming as re- quired until done. A very largo head may take four hours or more; a very small ono may be dono in less than three hours. Tho part called tho horn, as shown in tho engraving, and marked c to i>, takes a long- time; when that is tender, the head is ready to take up. It should not be allowed to fall from tho bones, but should leave them readily when carved. The meat is improved in colour by blanch- ing, i.c. putting it in cold water, and bringing it to the boil, then rinsing it, and covering with the boiling water. Tho tongue should bo skinned, and dished with tho brains round it, and the head may bo covered with plain melted butter, parsley sauce, or other suitable kind. Or tho bruins can bo beaten up, and added to a pint of parsley or cgg-sauco, some of which should bo put round the tongue, and the rest over the head. To prepare tho brains sec Calf’s Brains in Made Dishes. The bones should be put back in tho pot, and cooked for a few hours longer for soup. The meat will look nicer if the head be tied in a clean cloth; great earo being taken that no soap is left in it. For purposes of this kind special cloths should be kept, and separately washed, or the meat will acquire a most objectionable flavour. We would remind tho reader that a head with a skin on will be most nutritious, but will take longer to boil. During tho boiling, nearly a tablespoonful of salt may be added, a little put in from time to time will assist the scum to rise. For a perfectly plain dish, no vegetables need bo put in, but they are a groat improvement to the flavour of tho meat. Cost, about 3s. or 4s. when in full season. Sometimes, from 5s. to 8s. may bo given. To carve the head, commence with long slices, shown by tho dotted Fig. 77.—Calf’s Head, to Carve. lines a to n. With each of these, serve a cut of what is called tho throat sweetbread; this lies at tho313 VEAL. fleshy part of tho nock end. Out also some slices from c to n ; they are very gelatinous and delicate; a small portion should be served to each person. Tho tongue and brains are, as a rule, put upon a separate dish; thin slices of the tongue should be given to each, together with a spoonful of tho brains. The flesh round the eye is considered the tit-bit by some people, and deep in the sockets are other choice bits. To remove these, make a circular cut in the part marked e. First put the knife in slanting at r, insert- ing the point at tho dotted line, and driving it into the centre under the eye: then turn the hand round, keep- ing the circle of the dotted line with the blade of the knife, the point still in the centre. The eye will come out entire, cone-shaped at the under part, when the circle is completed by the knife. The lower jaw must next be removed, beginning at o; and to do this properly the dish must be turned. The palate is also considered a dainty, and a little of it should always be offered to each guest. Some people find it easier to carve a calf's head if divided, and each half laid flat on a dish. Calf's Head Brawn. —Make this as directed for Brawn under Pork. One or two calf’s feet will he an improvement. In preparing the head for pickle, remove the brains and the soft bones from the nose. A brawn composed of equal parts of calfs head and pig’s head, with a tongue of each sort, is a pleasant dish, and less rich than pork brawn. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. per pound. Calf’s Head, Hashed.-Kc- qaired : Calfs head, beef, ham, &e., as below. Cost, variable. This is very economical. If half, or nearly, of a cold calf’s head be handy, put all the bones, broken up, into the liquor, and add a fried onion, a couple of ounces of lean ham, and a scrap of fresh beef, or milt, a clove or two, and some peppercorns. Boil down to a quart, then strain, and thicken the gravy with browned flour ; flavour with lemon juice, salt, and pepper, then put in tho meat in nice pieces, and lot it heat through. Pour on a hot dish, and put cooked vegetables round. This will be more savoury if the ham and beef be fried with the onion. Borne cooked carrots, if at hand, can be cut in dico, and heated in the gravy, and served with the meal. Stuffed tomatoes may bo served with this, and little sausages or forcemeat balls are equally suitable. A brown caper sauce is also an ex- cellent medium for the re-heating of calfs head or feet. Calf's Heart.—Prepare and cook by any of the recipes given for sheep’s or lamb’s hearts, allowing longer time; about an hour and a half will be re- quired. Cost, from lOd. upwards. Or follow tho directions for ox heart, reducing the time in proportion to the size. If slowly cooked they are tender. Calf’s Heart with Tongue. —Required: Heart, tongue, vege- tables, &c., as below. This is a very savoury dish. Have the heart nicely baked or roasted, and boil a tongue which has heen pickled for three or four days, in the pickle given for tongues, beef, &c. The tongue should be skinned and dredged with browned crumbs, then cut through the centre lengthwise, and put on a dish with the heart between the halves. At each end of the heart put little heaps of cooked celery, or small, stowed onions, and serve a piquant sauce or gravy separately. A few croutons improve the dish. Cost of heart, about lOd. Calf’s Heart with Veal.—Pre- pare a nice veal hash or mince (see Index), and pour it overathick slice of toasted or fried broad. Stuff and roast the heart; cut it in slices; lay theso over the mince, and coat them with more minco. Sprinklo chopped parsley on tlie top, and put fried tomatoes or mushrooms about tho dish. .Serve314 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. hot, and as quickly as possible, as heart soon cools. II convenient, a kidney can bo minced and added to the veal. Cost, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 9d. Calf’s Liver a l’Ameri- caine.—Required: liver, pork, sauce, and seasoning. After washing and drying a pound of liver, cut slits in it half an inch apart, and put in each a strip of fat pork, which may he fresh or salted; it should he laid in lengthwise, and if first seasoned with swoot herbs and grated lemon peel is much nicer. Thou flour the surface, pepper it well, and bako until tender; a little stock should be put in tho pan, and used for basting. The surface should also bo brushed a timo or two with oil or butter. When done, add some piquant sauce to that in the pan, boil up, and season, and pour round the liver. Carve across tho slices of pork. A pig’s liver may be cooked similarly, and if preferred, apple sauce may be served with it instead of piquant sauce. A curry sauce is also suitable, in which case boiled rice should be sent to table. Cost of liver, about 9d. per pound. Calf’s Liver, Baked.—Wash and dry the liver, flour and pepper it slightly, then lay on a few slices of fat bacon ; cook it in a moderate oven, basting sometimes with the bacon fat. When nearly done, take the bacon off, and sprinkle raspings or fresh bread- crumbs over; brown tho surface nicely, and servo with plain gravy made in the tin, or a sauce as given in above recipe. Time, about an hour and a half, for a whole liver. A piece of paper, coated with bacon fat, or dripping, may be used in place of bacon. Calf's Liver and Bacon with French Beans.—Required: half a pound of calf’s liver, four ouncos of bacon, a largo onion, season- ing, vegetables, eggs, and sauco as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. Gd., exclusive of sauce. Cut the liver in dice; fry tho bacon; then take it up, cut it in dice, and set aside. Fry the onions, sliced or minced, in the bacon fat to a good brown ; put them to tho bacon, then fry the fiver for seven or eight minutes ; it should bo sprinkled with pepper and powdered herbs. Put tho onions in a saucepan with half a pint of piquant sauce (*fe Hot Sauces) cook them until soft; add the bacon and liver to heat, but do not boil again. Turn the whole into the centre of a dish, and put little heaps of French beans with poached eggs between, all round it. Sprinkle tho yolks of tho eggs with coralline pepper or chopped chillies. Another way.—Boil the eggs hard, slice thorn, and coat them with fried bread-crumbs ; dish them in a ring outside the beans, which should then form a wall ; pour a little of the sauco round them, and servo very hot. Calf's Liver and Bacon with Okra. — No eggs are needed for this. Prepare the liver as above ; put it in tho centre of tho dish, and place round it tho okra, which should be heated, and freed from some of its liquor. This can be used up in soups, &c., see recipes. Or instead of using piquant sauco for the liver, make okra saucefrom the liquor. (See Hot Sauces.) Cost of liver, about 9d. per pound. Veal, Baked in a Caul.— Required: a caul, bacon, veal, force- meat, and seasoning. Cost, variable, about 2s. Gd. for a moderate-sized dish. Lino a dish with a veal caul, leaving as much hanging over the sides as will cover the meat entirely. Fill up with small pieces of lean veal, slices of bacon, and forcemeat balls; tho meat should be seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and ground mace or nutmeg, lemon rind and parsley, chopped, and a suspicion of ginger. Let bacon form the top and bottom layers. Minced mush- rooms can be put in if liked. Fasten the caul over tho top, and tie a few folds of greased paper over, then bake in a moderate oven. 1 ime, according to quantity of meat, and depth of dish ;VEAL. 315 one containing a pound of veal will inquire an hour and a half. This is much liked generally. It is often preferred plain, but gravy am bo served with it if liked ; or brown sauce; with a flavouring of lemon juice or mushroom catsup is very good. Breast of Veal.—This rightly consists of two parts, the best end, and the brisket end ; it may be bought whole, or in parts ; the brisket end being a little cheaper. In carving it, much dopends upon the method of jointing adopted' by the butcher. If the ribs have been broken across, long slices may be cut as shown in the Fic. 7S. -Breast of Veal, to Carve. diagram from a to n ; or the rib can bo cut right through from c to d, then divided at the broken bone a n. If the rib bones have not been broken, the ribs have to be served whole ; tho pieces are then somewliat awkward- looking on the plate. Tho gristly portion may lie cut as shown in h h, and in a well-cooked breast this is very inviting and tender. Cost, about Sd. [per pound. Breast of Veal, Boiled.—If the sweetbread is to be boiled with tho veal, let it soak in water for a couple of hours, then skewer it to the veal. Put this into a saucepan, with boiling water to cover it, let it boil once inoro, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Add a handful of parsley, a lea- spoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a slice or two of tho white part of celory. Servo on a hot dish, and pour a little good onion sauce or parsley sauce over it. Send boiled bacon to table on a separate dish. The swcotbread may, of course, be dressed separately. Time to simmer the veal, about one hour and a half. The scrag end of the neck may be boiled, and served as above, or with any other suitable sauce. Cost, about 8d. per pound, without sweetbread. Broiled.—The breast or neck may be used for this. It should be cooked in the oven, or before tho Are until throe parts done, then scored in evon lines, and seasoned with salt, pepper and herbs, with a pinch of cayenne, and broiled at a clear fire until dono. Or it can bo grilled after the preliminary cooking. Just before serving, tho juice of a lemon should be squeezed over it. Hot pickles, or sweet pickles, can be handed with it; or a little brown gravy in which pickles have been heated may be served. (See also recipes for piquant sauces of various kinds.) Prepared as above, and served with grilled mushrooms, and bacon or ham, the dish will be acceptable at any meal. Cost, as above given. Cake of Veal.—See Cold Meat CooKEitY for the method. For superior dishes use raw veal, increasing the time for cooking, and use a good stock that will be a firm jolly when cold. Bake it in a tin half full of boiling- water, as, should the gravy dry up, the cake will be quite spoiled. The water must be replenished as required, and the dish containing the meat, &c., be tightly covered, either with a flour- and-water paste, or an old tin or plate tied on with greased paper. Chops. —These are taken from tho loin. if the under part is removed and divided, the pieces become fillets, although the form cutlets is frequently applied to them. Chops may bo dressed in any of tho ways given for cutlets. Cost, about lOd. to Is. per pound.316 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Cold Veal, To Re dress.— Cold veal can be served in various ways, for which recipes are given in a later chapter. It may bo minced, hashed, moulded, curried, or converted into rissoles, croquettes and the like with a certainty of success if the seasoning be judiciously added; for while no meat is more insipid when insufficiently seasoned, it should retain its delicacy of flavour ; that is, it must not bo overpowored by condiments. Amongst the most suitable adjuncts to dishes of veal, may be noted lemons, mushrooms, tomatoes, bacon, ham, and eggs and cream. The spices employed are mace, nutmeg, cayenne; every herb, in moderation, may be brought into play, while vegetables, daintily dressed, are, to some dishes a real necessity. Cheese is also used in veal rechauffes, and all sorts of Italian paste will be found useful, either as a part of the dish, or as a garnish. Collops, Veal. — Required : a pound of veal from the fillet, a season- ing of pepper, mace, grated lemon peel and powdered herbs, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. The meat should be in pieces, half an inch, or rather more, thick ; one inch wide, and two inches long; season it, and brown in hot (hipping, then add weak stock to cover, skim, and simmer for an hour to an hour and a half. Add salt to taste, a squeeze of lemon juice, and white roux to thicken. Boil up and serve, and gar- nish with sliced lemons. If liked, put some rolls of bacon, and croutons in finger shapes round the dish. Another may. — Cut the meat in squares of an inch ; when done, add half its weight of bacon, cut in the same way, and fried separately; keep it hot, and fry some thin slices of tomatoes in the bacon fat. Take them up, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley, then put them round a dish with the meat in the middle. The gravy should be made quite thick for this; just enough in quantity to coat the moat. Cutlets.—Those may be from the best end of the neck, or from the fillet. If from the neck, the skin, gristle, and chine - bone should be removed, and the upper part of the rib-bones shortened. After trimming, the meat should be beaten out with a cutlet bat or knife. If the slices from the fillet are cut into rounds, they become escalopes ; if larded they are grenadins. (See various recipes under Entrees and Made Dishes.) Cost, from 9d. to Is. per pound. Broiled, Plain. — Divide the best end of a neck of veal into neat cutlets, allowing one bone to each. Prepare them as directed :—Sprinkle pepper on both sides, brush them over slightly with oil, and broil before a clear slow fire, till they are nicely browned on both sides. Serve on a hot dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon on a sepa- rate dish. Good brown gravy, or tomato or any piquant sauce, may be sent to table with veal cutlets. Time, fifteen to eighteen minutes, according to thickness. To grill, cook over the fire on a gridiron. Crumbed and Broiled. — Divide the best end of a neck of veal into cutlets. Prepare and season them. Brush them over first with clarified butter or oil, then with beaten egg; dip them in bread-crumbs, once more into oil, and then into the bread-crumbs again. Broil before a clear fire of a moderate heat, and turn them that they may be equally cooked on both sides When they arc brightly browned take them up, arrange them on a dish alter- nately with rashers of ham or bacon, and send good gravy, or tomato, or any piquant sauce to table with them. Pried.—Cut a slice of lean veal, about the third of an inch thick, from the fillet. Divide this into neat cutlets convenient for serving. Prepare some finely grated bread-crumbs, season with popper, salt, and pounded mace, and add a tablespoonful of parsley, which has been scalded and finely minced. Dip the cutlets into hot butter or drip- ping, coat them with the crumbs, and fry them in a frying-pan, with a little317 VEAL. hot fat, for about a quarter of an hour. Serve as in the preceding recipo. Thyme or mixed herbs can be added to the bread-crumbs. Fillet, Boiled.—Required : veal, forcemeat, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, from 9d. to Is. per pound. Take a small and white fillet of veal for this purpose. Remove the bone, till its space with good veal forcemeat, tie buttered muslin over, and bind the veal securely with tape. Rut it in a stew-pan, and pour over it as much weak stock, milk and water, or water only, as will barely cover it. Let it simmer very gently indeed until it is done enough. Care- fully remove the scum as it rises. When done enough, take it up, put it on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, and send oyster, celery, bechamel, or white sauce to table with it; or a sauce made by thickening a little of the stock in wh ich it was boiled with white roux, seasoning with salt, pepper, and mace, and flavouring with lemon juice. A boiled tongue should accompany this dish, which if Served alone is in danger of being considered insipid. Time to simmer a fiUet of veal weighing six pounds, three hours. The veal can be rubbed with lemon juice, and tied in a thin cloth. It must be kept covered with the liquid, which should be boiling when added. The white part of a small onion, and a few inner stalks of celery, together with a button mushroom or two, will add to the flavour of the veal. Fillet, Carving of.—A sharp knife is required; it should be thin, and drawn lightly across the meat, without too much pressure. It should follow tho line a, b, c, d, and when once the meat has become flat at the top, it can bo kept even by exercising a little care. A portion of stuffing should be given with each help, and as some usually falls into the dish at stalling this should be kept in reserve for the time when there is less; that is, when the lower part of the joint is reached. The outside brown slice is by many considered tho best, and the honoured guest should be asked if he prefers it. Fillet of veal has a ten- dency to crumble, therefore an ordinary knife, especially if blunt, will not answer in carving it. Fillet, Roasted. — Have the fillet cut to the size required. Re- move the bone, and fill the cavity with good veal forcemeat. Cut the flap slightly, and lay forcemeat under it. Draw the flap round, skewer the veal, bind it firmly into a round shape, skewer the skin which has been sent with the veal over the forcemeat and the fat, flour the fillet, and put it down near to the fire, then draw it gradually away until done enough, and baste frequently. Let the outside be well browned, though it must not be burnt. Remove the skin, skewers, and tape, and put the veal on a hot dish. Pour melted butter, coloured with browning or some good veal gravy, round it, and garnish with sliced lemon. A pig’s cheek, a boiled tongue, or small pieces of bacon or ham should be served with roast veal. It is always well to prepare plenty of stuffing, so that it may be used to flavour a mince if the remains of the veal are served in that form. As it is a little difficult to keep the stuffing in tho veal when it is roasted before the fire, many cooks prefer to bake it in a moderate oven. When this plan is adopted tho veal must be basted frequently. The veal should be roasted slowly or tho outside will be burnt before tho meat is done through, and underdone voal is most unwholo- some. Time, according to tho thickness of tho meat and the weather. If cold, it318 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. will take nearly half an horn' per pound. For superior dishes, good brown sauce should be served with this. It can be flavoured with lemon juice, mushroom liquor, or ketchup, or some store sauce. The addition of a little chutney is by many considered an improvement. (Sec also Gravy for Veal.) A greased paper or piece of muslin may replace the skin, and strips of calico can be used instead of tape. Fillet, Steamed.—Remove the bone from a fillet of veal, and with- out stuffing it, bind it well with tape, that there may be no hollow in the centre. Put it in a shallow tin, and cook it in a potato steamer, or other steaming apparatus, until done. A gill of veal stock, mixed with the juice of a lemon, should bo poured round it, and a sheet of buttered paper be laid over it. Cook for at least twenty-five minutes per pound ; if thick allow longer. Dish it, and pour over a quart or so of sauce; egg, pars- ley, tomato, mushroom, oyster, lemon, bechamel, veloute, supreme, and many others given under Hot Sauces, are suitable. This is excellent and digestible, but unless the sauce is good, it will be rather tasteless. A nice vegetable puree, or some braised carrots and turnips should accom- pany it. Another way.—Aftor steaming the meat until nearly done, finish it by glazing all over, and browning before the fire; then serve a brown piquant, or brown mushroom or caper sauce with it. Other joints of veal can be cooked in the same way, and various forms of garnish can be employed. Cost, according to sauce and garnish. Goose, Veal.—This is a savoury dish, and a favourite with many. It may be made from a breast of veal, or a portion of it, the bones and tendons being first removed; or from the neck, hy taking thehest end, and cutting off the skin with an inch and a half of flesh adhering to it. Lay the meat on a table, and flatten it, then spread it with sage and onion stuffing ; roll and bind with hroad tape, then hake or roast the meat. Send apple sauce to table, also brown gravy. (See Gravy for Veal, and Gravy for Goose.) Another way.—Stuff the meat with a mixture of sage and onion stuffing and chopped apples; or with apples only. (See Goose Stuffed with Apples.) Cost, about 9d. per pound. Hot Pot.—Required: meat, vege- tables, seasoning, &c. Cost, about Is. fid. This is plain, but very wholesome and tasty. First grease a strong hairing dish, then boil, until half done, two pounds of potatoes, and slice them thickly; parboil also one pound of onions, and slice them thinly. Wash a pound and a half of the scrag end of a neck of veal ; dry it, and cut it in pieces; and cut four ounces of fat bacon into dice. Mix a teaspoonful of salt, the same of chopped parsley, half as much pepper, and a good pinch of pow- dered thyme on a plate, and sprinkle the meat well with the mixture. Line the dish with the potatoes, then fill up with the meat and onions; put the remainder of the potatoes on the top, and pour in half a pint of stock, No. 1 or 2, or meat liquor. Cover with an old plate, and bake gently for an hour and a half; then take the plate off, and add a few bits of dripping; return it to the oven to brown, and serve hot. Mutton can be used in the same way, and liver or kidney put in with the meat. Various herbs and vegetables can be used in place of onions and parsley, and boiled rice or macaroni may be put in alter- nately with the meat; then inoro stock must bo added, or it will be dry. Pickled pork ctm take the place of bacon; whichever is used should be distributed amongst the meat. Kernels.—These are found in the legs and shoulders; the latter are esteemed more highly, and considered very delicate eating. French cooks dross them in various ways ; they may be cooked in the same way as veal tendons, and should be served in a319 VEAL. circle, with a good puree of vegetables in the centre of the dish, and a nice sauce. If liked, bacon can accompany them, or the kidney or sweetbread may be served on the same dish. They should, in any easo, be slowly cooked. Knuckle.—This is often boiled, and is delicate, though rather insipid, unless flavour is imparted by the addition of vegetables. The usual time for cooking is not long enough for this, owing to its gelatinous na- ture. When boiled, long, slow cooking, and careful skimming are important. A slewed knuckle is excellent. A roasted knuckle is not to be recom- mended, unless the fleshy portion only is cooked, the knuckle-bone being used for stock, for which it is very useful, and should be used while quite fresh. The illustration shows the method of carving, which is very simple, slices being cut from a to is. The thick part is the best; the fat is very delicious ; but by some the tendons about the knuckle are preferred. Knuckle, Stewed.—Required: about, three and a half pounds of mesit, a quart of gravy made as below, sea- soning, mushrooms, and sauce. Cut off the shank-bone, and make the gravy; see Stock No. 9; then bring it to the boil; add a bit of mace, a few white peppercorns, a strip of lemon peel, and a sprig of parsley ; put the meat in, and cook for an hour, then add half a pound or more of button mushrooms, broken up, and go on simmering until the veal is done. (See Veal, with Rice.) Shortly before serving stir in some white roux, or put in half a pint of thick, white sauce, made with milk; or instead of mush- rooms, add to the stew half a pint of white mushroom puree. A piece of boiled bacon can be sent to table with this, or some grilled or fried bacon, with little forcemeat balls or cakes may be substituted. A dish of vermi- celli or macaroni, with white sauce, may also be served with it. Cost of knuckle, about 7d. or 8d. per pound, but it is variable; some butchers sell it for less than 7d. Much depends upon the quantity re- quired. Loin, Stuffed and Roasted. —After taking the bones from the meat, lay it flat on the table, and spread it with veal stuffing; mince the kidney, and strew it over, then, roll, and tie tightly with wide tape, or sow it up ; cover it with greased paper, and cook it gently until done. Then take up the meat, and remove the paper; let the meat brown, and serve it on a hot dish, with brown sauce flavoured with lemon juice poured round it. Garnish with little rolls of bacon, and small mushrooms or tomatoes, with sliced lemons ; or use little forcemeat balls, and bunches of any green vegetables in season. Cost, about lOd. per pound. Another tvay. — Instead of brown sauce, use white sauce, the foundation made from stock No. 9 ; or for a superior dish, substitute either of the rich white sauces made with cream; see recipes. White mushroom sauce is also excellent with this dish. Loin, Stuffed and Roasted (No. 2).—These directions apply to a joint cooked with the bones in. If the chump end, make an incision round the thick part of the joint, in the skin, and insert some veal stuffing. Wrap a greased paper round, and after aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 320 quarter of an hour, draw the meat back to a good distance, and cook slowly, basting liberally. Finish off as directed above ; or make some melted butter, and after pouring off the fat, add the melted butter to the gravy in the tin ; stir up, and boil it; add a little colouring, and put part of it on the dish, and the rest in a hot tureen. (.SVralso Gravy for Veal.) If the kidney end, see that the kidney is covered with its fat, and cover the lean of the meat with a greased paper. When done, finish as above, and serve bacon, ham, or tongue with it if con- venient. In order to give the meat a rich brown coating, flour it when the greased paper is removed. A coating of thin glaze is a great improvement, and cut lemons should be handed on a plate. Time, from twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound; longer if very thick. Cost, about lOd. per lb. Loin, To Carve.—This is gener- ally served in chops, like a loin of mutton, and must be carefully jointed, or the carver will have to turn the knife about, until the place is found for the division of the bones; this produces a raggy appearance. The kidney and kidney fat are great delicacies, and a portion should be put upon each plate. If the loin is large, one chop may make two small helps, by putting the under-cut with the end, and serving the bone and upper part together. The most econo- mical way of sei^ng this is to bone it, then roll and carve it like a fillet, which see. Neck, Roasted.^Take the best end of a neck of veal, saw off the chine bone, wrap in buttered paper, and hang it to the jack. If the joint is not wrapped in paper, it must be basted very liberally with drip- ping from the pan. Put it down before a clear fire, and at a sufficient distance to keep it from being scorched. A quarter of an hour before the joint is taken up, remove the paper, dredge the moat with flour, and baste with a little butter. Finish as directed for other joints of veal. Rice Sauce will afford a pleasant change from thoRe generally served. For other ways of cooking, see recipes for Breast, Loin-, &c. Cost, 7d. to 9d. per pound, when plentiful, if bought whole. Pluck. — This consists of the heart, with the liver and lights. The heart should bo cooked whole ; it may be plain or stuffed, and can be baked, roasted or stewed. If baked or roasted, put a slice or two of bacon over it. Soak the liver and lights in waim water; mince them, put them in a stewpan with chopped parsley, thyme, and a little ketchup or store sauce, and enough plain stock of any' sort to cover. Simmer for nearly an hour, thicken the gravy', and season well. Put the mince on a hot dish, with the heart laid on it; round it place rolls of cooked ham or bacon, or poached eggs; and garnish with triangular sippets of toast, or with croutons. Fried parsley can be used if convenient. With reference to this recipe, a word of explanation is necessary-. It is given in deference to custom, but with due regard to the fact that hosts of people shun lights altogether as human food, and look upon them as cats’ meat. At the same time, numbers of people do eat them, and the recipe, if followed, will result in one of the tastiest and most digestible dishes of the kind. Those who discard them, will find the dish, cooked as directed, but minus the lights, worth a trial. This is not the place to discuss the pros and cons of the question, but we may remark that while many- medical authorities are against the consumption of any internal parts of any animal (sweet- bread excepted), others contend that every part may bo oaten, if well cooked, and quite fresh, except by' per- sons whose digestive powers are very weak. We are not including tripe, but the internals above referred to, together with kidney's, milt, &c.321 VEAL. Shoulder.—Owing, no doubt, to the fact that the meat on this joint is rather coarse, the shoulder of veal is not so highly valued as other portions, and is seldom served, excepting as a family dish. It is occasionally plainly boiled, but is more frequently stuffed and roasted or braised. The knuckle should always be cut off and used to enrich the stew or to make gravy. Probable cost, if bought whole, 81d. per pound; if cut, 9d. Shoulder, Boiled.—Cut off the knuckle, and take out the bones. Hub the under-part with a cut lemon, and sprinkle over it pepper, salt, and chopped thyme and parsley. Roll the meat, and skewer it neatly. Put it into a stew- pan, cover with stock, water, or milk and water, and let ii simmer gently till done enough. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. Send good onion sauce to table with it, and serve boiled bacon or pickled pork on a separate dish. This dish is by most people considered insipid. Time, twenty-five minutes to the pound. (See also Mutton’, Boxed and Rolled.) Shoulder, Boned. — Lay the joint upon the table, skin downwards. With a sharp knife detach the flesh from the blade-bone, first on one side, then on the other, and be especi- ally careful not to pierce the outer skin. When the bone is quite free, loosen it from the socket, and draw it out. The bone of the knuckle is sometimes left in, but when it is necessary to remove it the same rules need to be observed: the knife must be worked close to the bone, and the outer skin must not be pierced. An excellent grill may be made of the blade-bone if a little of the meat is left on it. Shoulder, Stuffed and 2»oa>s^6d,.—Cut the knuckle from h shoulder of veal, draw out the blade- bone, and fill the cavity thus made with good veal forcemeat. Tie a piece of oiled or greased paper over the joint, hang it tolerably near a clear fire, and at the end of twenty minutes draw it back and roast it gently until done enough. Baste every quarter of an hour. Twenty minutes before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge the joint with flour, and baste till it is nicely browned. Place it on a dish, pour good brown sauce round it, and serve with a cut lemon on a plate. Send ham or bacon to table with it. Time to roast a shoulder of veal, three hours to three hours and a half. The joint may be baked if well basted. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Shoulder, Stuffed and Stewed. — Remove the blade-bone from a shoulder of veal. Season the inside with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, sprinkle over it minced savoury herbs, such as parsley and chives, together with a few mush- rooms, and spread over these thin slices of ham or bacon. Roll the veal, and bind it tightly with tape. Put it in a saucepan which will just hold it, over a clear fire with a slice of butter or a piece of dripping, and brown it; or if more convenient, roast or bake it for half an hour. Then drain it, and put it in a deep stewpan or baking dish, with warm stock (this should be made previously from the blade- bone). Add vegetables, herbs, and spices, and a piece of lemon peel, and cook gently, giving it altogether twenty-five or thirty minutes per pound. When done, thicken the gravy with brown roux, add salt to taste, and a squeeze of lemon juice, then strain it round the meat. If thick gravy is liked, pass the vegetables through a sieve with the gravy, re- heat, and serve on the same dish. Cost, as above. Spinach, peas, cauliflower, and various othor vegetables are suitable accompaniments ; or in cool weather, a puree of green haricots or lentils. Tendons,—The tendons of veal are tho gristly portions found at the extremity of tho bones towards tho thick end of a breast of veal. They K322 ■UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. aro frequently cut oft' (care being taken not to spoil the appearance of the joint), and served on a separate dish as an entree. (See Veal X la Marengo.) When the breast of veal is largo it is well that this should bo done, as thoy are often lost by being under-dressed. They must of course, bo cut off the moat before it is dressed. The place where the tendons begin and the ribs end is. shown by a line of white gristle. The stock from veal tendons may be used for sweetbread soup, and others of the 'same class. It should bo prepared as No. 9, the tendons being-separately sorved: any other white meat may be used witli them to make up the required quantity. Veal with Rice. — Required: throe pounds of knuckle of veal, three ounces of rice, three pints of stock made as directed below, a tablospoon- ful each of capers, chopped onion, and shredded celery, salt and pepper to taste. Cost, about 2s. 3d. .Some hours before tho meal is re- quired, put the shank bone on in three pints of cold water with a few popper- corns, a clove or two, and a bunch of herbs; boil gently down to a quart, then strain, and add another pint of water. Put in the meat, and stew slowly for an hour, then add the washed rice and the scalded onions, and stew for another hour (broken rice does for this). Season, add tho capers, chopped finely, and in ten minutes serve on a hot dish, the meat in the centre. The shank bone will still have somo' nourishment left in it, and should go into tho stock-pot. Another way.—Boil the bone down- as directed, and cook the meat in the stock, with the onions, first fried a delicate brown : only a pint and a luilf of stock will be wanted. Then thicken it with brown roux, and serve on a dish, first covered with a thick layer of savoury rice. (Sec Rice.) Garnish the dish with clear hot pickles, warmed, and slices of lemon or lime. Some forcemeat balls stewed in tho gravy are a further improve- ment ; or some little rolls of bacon may bo put about tho dish. MUTTON. GENERAL REMARKS. The best mutton, and that from which most nourishment is obtained, is that of sheep of from three to six years old, and which have been fed on dry sweet pastures. The flesh of sheep which liave been reared on farms near the sea-coast is also sweet and wholesome; the saline particles abounding in such situations impart both firmness and a fine flavour. To suit the palate of an epicure, a sheep should never be killed earlier than its fifth year, at which age the mutton will be found firm and succulent,, and full of the richest gravy. This is, however, not easily obtained at the present time. To ascertain the age of mutton the following directions, may be given Observe the colour of the breast-bones when a sheep is dressed, that is, where the breast-bone is separated. In a lamb, or before the sheep is one year old, it will bo quite red; from one to two years old, tho upper and lower bones will be changing to white, and a small circle of white will appear round tho edge of the other bones, and tho middle part of the breast-bone will yet continue red; at three" years old, a very smallMUTTON. 323 streak of wlxito will bo seen iu tbo middle of the four middle bonds, and the others will be white; and at four years old, all the breast-bones will be of a white or gristly colour. The quality of the flesh is probably most affected by that of the food upon which the flocks are fed. Those which range over the mountainous districts of Wales and Scotland, or the chalk downs of England, and feed upon the wild herbage, arc thought to bo better than those kept in rich pastures. The Welsh mutton is particularly small and lean, but of the finest flavour. In point of delicacy and flavour, Southdown wether mutton is considered equal to any that is killed; in summer it is thought preferable to some other finely- flavoured breeds. This circumstance is said to arise from the closeness of the grain; mutton that is coarser and looser-fleshed being, of course, more subject to putridity. Wether mutton is the best; although it is often easier to buy ewe mutton of a mature age, it is inferior, and sells at a lower price. Ram mutton is to be avoided when very strong and coarse, and if the fat is of a deep yellow. Mutton should be fairly fat, and the fat should bo firm. Butchers complain sometimes (and with reason) of the inconsistency of some customers in their demands for the best meat, without fat! How can they possibly get it F The small breeds will best suit such people, and it is worth everyone’s while to give the preference to small mutton generally—i.e. meat with small bones; they usually indicate a good breed; whereas, large bones are associated with coarse- ness of fibre and poorer flavour. The lean ought to be rich in colour, and not give out much moisture; flabbiness and clamminess always prove that the meat is inferior. ' 1 The length of time that mutton will hang depends upon the quality of the meat, the state of the weather, and other conditions. Given a well-ventilated cellar, and a spell of dry weather, a leg might remain for four or five weeks; but should rain set in, and the weather become mild, it might spoil in less than a quarter the time. Loins and shoulders (the kidney end of the former, and the under-part of the latter) are particularly liable to putrefaction, and need careful watching. A sprinkling of pepper and powdered charcoal are nsed. by manv cooks, and a little salt rubbed round the tail in hanging a leg, is considered a good preservative. A pinch of ginger mixod with pepper will keep the flies from any joint. Mutton is cut up as shown in the figure. 1. The leg. 2. The loin. 3. Shoulder. 4. Neck, best end. 5. Neck, scrag end. 6. Breast. Besides these, there are the head and feet, heart, liver, and other internal organs, all treated under the various headings. Fig. SI.—Side of Mutton Divided into' Joints.IfNlVEhSAL COoKERV BOOK. m Breast, Boiled. (See Keck, Boiled. )—Boil in the same way, giving shorter time in proportion to thickness. If very thin, from small mutton, three pounds will be done in an hour—that is, about fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen over. By the same rule, five pounds would he done in an hour and a half. Breast, Stuffed and Boiled. —Required: a breast of mutton (small, lean meat), some plain veal stuffing, and a Buown Sauce Piquant. (See recipes.) Vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, from 6d. or 7d. to 8d. per pound; sometimes less. Skin, bone, and trim the meat; unless it is lean, some fat must be removed; spread it with the forcemeat half an inch thick, roll up, and bind, then boil according to the directions already given. An hour before serving put some young carrots in the pot, and if liked, some turnips, adding them later. When done, dish the meat with the vegetables round, and pour the sauce over, about a pint of the latter being required. Breast, Stuffed and Boiled (No. 2) .—Use mushroom stuffing in place of the one given above (the plainest recipe to be followed); boil the meat as in the foregoing recipe, with a few vegetables to flavour, but do not put them on the dish. Make a Mushroom Puree, and add a gill of it to three gills of the pot liquor; boil it up with seasoning and browned flour to make it as thick as good cream. Grill or fry some small mushrooms, about a dozen, and put them round the meat; pour the sauce over it, and serve hot. Cost, as above, exclusive of the garnish. This and the preceding are very nice cold dishes, particularly if served with a salad. Breast, with Sage and Onions. — Required : a breast of mutton, some sage and onion stuffing, brown gravy, and apple sauce. Cost, as above. This is a very savoury dish, called Mock Duck by some; it also goes by the name of Irish Goose. Skin the breast, take away the bones, and some of the fat, then flatten it on a board, and spread with the forcemeat, made by mixing sage and onion stuffing with half its bulk of bread-crumbs. Roll up the meat, tie it with tape, and put it in a good oven, with hot dripping in the tin ; baste it well, and bake in the usual way, but allow longer—twice the ordinary time. In spreading it, do not put the stuffing near the edge; and should it ooze out in the cooking, tie a greased paper over. When done, put it on a hot dish, add half a pint of plain stock (No. 1 or 2), thickened with a spoonful of browned flour, boil it up in the tin, after pouring off the fat, put in a little salt and browning, and pour a little round the meat; send the rest to table in a tureen, with another of plain Apple Sauce. Another way.—Prepare the meat as above, and after browning it in fat, stew it in stock, about a pint and a quarter, very slowly, basting and turn- ing often. For this method, most of the fat must be removed, or the gravy will be very greasy. Cool it, and skim well, then boil it up and serve as above directed. If loft to get cold, the fat can be taken off in a cake; the dish is then very superior, and just requires to be re-heated. Chops, Grilled, Savoury.— There are various ways of rendering savoury a dish of chops, without adding much to the cost; forethought is the article most in demand. An onion or shalot or two may be shredded, and put in a stewpan with a couple of ounces of butter, some pepper, and any herbs at hand (a morsel of bay leaf and thyme, with parsley, will give general satisfaction); when dissolved, dip each chop into it, then roll it in bread- crumbs, and cook as usual. For those breaded chops, a well-greased gridiron, with bars close together, is wanted. Another way.—Chop a few mush- rooms, stir them with the butter, and325 MUTTON. a pinch of spice and pepper, with a morsel of shalot if liked, and proceed as above directed ; a pinch of mush- room powder will also improve the crumbs. Another way.—Mix a tablespoonful of cooked ham, finely minced, with herbs or mushrooms, or shalots, add- ing butter as above, and put a morsel on each chop or cutlet; on one side will suffice; then roll in crumbs. Another way.—This, perhaps, is the method that will prove the greatest novelty. Have ready some stewed sultana raisins; chop them, and mix them with a seasoning of curry-powder and herbs; stir them with dissolved butter and a little thick, hot pickles; spread this paste over the chops, and finish off as directed. In all the above recipes the exact proportions of the several ingredients must be regulated by individual taste. Cost of meat, from 9d. to lid. per pound. Chops, Toasted.—The illustra- tion below shows a very cheap and handy form of toaster, which any tin- man could make. The size and number of hooks can be easily adapted to individual requirements ; the hooks can be increased to six, if the width of the grate will take a tin of sufficient capacity; then a large steak or little Fio. 82.—Toaster. joint may easily be supported, and all the advantages of a meat-jack and stand may be enjoyed at trifling cost. When not wanted for meat, it will answer for other purposes, and in the flat tin at the bottom many little dishes, scalloped meat, fish, &c., may be browned to perfection; or choose may bo toasted; indeed, its uses are very numerous. One thing must bo borne in mind in ordering it, viz., it must be narrower than the fireplace-, the latter should bo at least four inches wider. Pass the hooks through the fat part of the chops, and give them about twenty minutes with frequent turning. Chops, with German Lentils. —Required : nine chops from small, lean mutton, and cook them in a Dutch oven, or fry them if more convenient. Have ready a good-sized onion, fried in rings, and some chopped parsley, also a dish of lentils, boiled plainly. They should be on the dish on which the chops are to bo served. Pour over them a little thick gravy, made by adding browned flour to mutton stock, and boiling it up, with seasoning to taste. On the top, sprinkle the fried onion, shake the parsley over the chops, and serve hot. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 3d. Another way.—Add a seasoning of curry paste to the lentils (about a tea- spoonful to the pound), and mix in amongst them the fried onion. Pour the gravy round the chops, instead of over the lentils, and in place of the parsley, sprinkle the chops with curry powder before cooking. Chops, with Vegetables.— Where vegetables are to be had fresh from the garden, and in plenty, this method of cooking chops will be as wholesome as it is agreeable to the palate; it is also economical. Trim the chops (or cutlets), pepper them, and fry them in hot fat until half done. By this time have in readiness the vegetables—peas, asparagus, celery, carrots, turnips, &c.—nil cut oven in size, and stewed in a little stock. Put the chops with the vegetables, and leave them, covered, at simmoring point, until done. Flour tho pan, make a little thick gravy, and add to tho vegetables, &c., with seasoning to tasto. Do not destroy the fresh326 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. vegetable flavour by any addition other than salt and pepper. If liked, a shredded lettuce or a young cabbage may be boiled separately, and put with the rest; or some sprigs of cress can be put in. Time, about twenty minutes for the meat altogether. Cost, varying with the vegetables. Note. — The stock from meat or poultry boiled answers as well as a stronger for the cooking of the vege- tables. Or, if the chops are got ready early in the day, the cuttings of the bones may be boiled down for the purpose. Cutlets, Breaded, with Bacon.—Kequired : chops, bacon, &c. as below. Cost, about 2s. Prepare a pound and a half of chops or cutlets by brushing them over with warm but- ter, then rolling them in bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper, and a pinch of sage or sweet herbs in powder ; press the crumbs on firmly, then grill or broil the cutlets until done. Cut half a pound of bacon in two-inch lengths, fry them, and serve them on bits of fried bread round the cutlets. Another way.—Put a long crouton of fried bread in the middle of a hot dish; roll some slices of bacon up, and cook them on a skewer; withdraw the skewer, and loave the bacon in a row on the bread. Put a ring of mashed potatoes next, then rest the cutlets round the potatoes. Another way.—Cover the bread, as in the preceding recipe, with white or brown onion sauce, before the bacon is put on; then placo the cutlets round, and put a little more sauce outside them. Serve some potatoes in another dish : savoury mashed, or potato pyra- mid (for which see Vegetables), arc very suitable. Cutlets cooked in this way will agree with some better than when eggs are used as well as bread. They are much nicer if brushed over with a little extract of meat, dissolved in stock, or some thin glaze, just beforo serving. They want slow cooking, or the crumbs may burn. Cutlets, Preparation of. (See Cutlets, Loin; Cutlets, Neck; and Cutlets, Shoulder; in Made Dishes.) Cutlets, with Ham and Carrots.—Kequired : meat, vege- tables, ham, &c., as below. (See recipe for a plain puree of carrots in Vegetables.) Prepare about a pint, and broil or fry half a pound of ham ; then cut it in narrow strips. Cook about five or six cutlets in a saute pan with a little warm butter. (See recipes under Entrees and Made Dishes.) They should be a pale brown. With the puree mix a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, put it on a dish, place the cutlets round, and put the strips of ham, some on the puree, and some about the dish, with a sprig of fresh watercress in between. This is but a plain dish, so far as cost goes, hut it looks nice, and is very tasty. Cost, about 3s. 6d. In using a small number of cutlets, the dish looks better if they are placed lengthwise, slightly overlapping. For a largo number, they should overlap in an almost upright direction, very slightly slanted, and have a frill on each bone. A turnip puree can bo used as above, or some green peas, whole, or in a puree. Cutlets, with Ham and Eggs. —Cook the cutlets in the above way, and have as many small slices of 1mm as there are cutlets. Allow, also, one egg to each. Broil or fry tho ham; poach or fry the eggs. Dish Ihem by putting a cutlet on a piece of ham, an egg on the top'of the cutlet. Form a ring round some cooked spinach and servo with plain gravy or sauce. Cost, for a dish of seven, about 3s. Od. to 4s. Cutlets, with Rice Sauce.— Prepare tho cutlets by crumbing and cooking them as directed for Cutlets, Breaded, with Bacon, or they can ho fried in hot dripping, turning them every minute. They will take from ten to fifteen minutes, according to thick- ness. Servo tho cutlets in a ring,327 MUTTOV. resting against a icall of mashed potatoes, or down each side of a block of mashed potatoes. For a pound and a half of meat, make a pint of rice sauce (sec p. 99), and send it to table in a tureen. This dish is delicate and digestible Cost, about Is. lOd. Another good method of serving tho above is to use a puree of white or green haricot beans, instead of pota- toes ; the sauce in that case may be poured half over the haricots, and the rest round (not over) the cutlets. Cutlets, witli Rice Sauce and Onions.—This is very delicious: of a rather more savoury nature than the foregoing. Grill some cutlets, and spread each, when done, with a thick layer of white onion ' sauce. Serve them round a mound of spinach, and send a tureen of sauce to table. Cost, about 6d. each, inclusive. Haggis, Scotch.—Take the stomach of a sheep, wash it well, and let it soak for several hours in cold salt and water, then turn it inside out, put it into boiling water to scald, scrape it quickly with a knife, and let it remain in water until wanted. Clean a sheep’s pluck thoroughly. Pierce the heart and tho liver in several places, to let the blood run out, and boil the liver and lights for an hour and a half. When they have boiled a quarter of an hour, put them! into fresh water, and during the last half hour let the rest of the pluck be boiled with them. Trim away the skins and any discoloured parts there may be, grate half of the liver, and minco all the rest very finely; add a pound of finely-shredded suet, two chopped onions, half a pint of oatmeal, or, if preferred, half a pound of oat-cakes, toasted and crumbled, two teaspoon- fnla of salt, and one of pepper, half a nutmeg,grated,and a grain of cayenne. Moisten with half a pint of good gravy and the juice of a small lemon, and put the mixture into the l«ig already prepared for it. Be careful to leave room for swelling, sew it securely, and plunge it into boiling water. It -will require three hours’ gentle boiling. Prick it with a needle every now and then, especially during the first half hour, to let the air out. A haggis should be sent to table as hot as possible, and neither sauce nor gravy should he served with it. The above is sufficient for eight or ten persons. Of this dish it has been said, as of the English plum pudding, that every- body has a different recipe, and every- body thinks her own the best. In Scot- land, it is highly prized; and regarded as “ the great chieftain o’ the pudding race.” When partly boiled the haggis will keep for some little time, and is thus sent from Scotland to friends in other parts. Those who have tasted it in perfection, declare that the haggis is a very delicious morsel. Great care is needed that no thin parts in the stomach be left unrepaired, or it will burst, and tho whole be spoilt. A haggis may be made from a lamb’s stomach and pluck, and it is safer to tie it in a cloth after sewing up the bag in the usual way. Cost, un- certain ; generally cheap. ~ Haricot Mutton. — Enquired: two pounds of mutton, a pint of stock, a pound of young turnips, a slice of onion, seasoning, roux, and dripping. Cost, about 2s. Take lean meat, shoulder or neck; cut it into squares of an inch and a half or so, fry it lightly in clarified dripping, then dredge a little flour over, and fry for a second or two more ; add the stock, hot, or tho liquor from boiled meat or poultry does: if stock is used it should be from mutton bones; 'boil up and skim, put in tho onion, and leavo to simmer. Peel and cut the turnips into slices like tho sections of an orange, and fry them ii pale brown, in butter with a pinch of white sugar. When tho moat has cooked for an hour, put in tho tur- nips, and cook for twenty minutes, then dish neatly; thicken and boil up tho gravy, add a pinch of browning salt, and salt and popper to328 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. tasto, and serve very hot. Carrots may be added ; they should he fried and put in with the meat. Take out the onion before serving, and skim the gravy thoroughly. Lamb maybe cooked in the same way; a teaspoonful of mint and parsley, chopped together, should be added to the gravy, with a few drops of lemon juice or white vinegar, last thing. Haunch, Roast.—Unless this joint has been well hung it will be tough and insipid. A haunch of good Southdown mutton, in fine, clear, frosty weather, may be kept a month ; but in damp weather it will require much attention on the part of the cook to keep it from getting tainted in half the time. The great point is to keep it dr)-, by dusting it first with flour, which should be rubbed 00 several times with a dry cloth, and again renewed. When to be cooked, skin the loin, and wipo dry; then cover with white paper, or make a common paste of flour-and-water for the joint. Put it on the spit, or hang before a good, even, vigorous fire for the first half hour, basting it constantly with good meat-dripping. When within half an hour of being done, take off the paper, and brown slightly. Dredge the haunch with flour, and baste copiously with butter, but first pour the dripping from the pan ; sprinkle with a little salt, and send it to table finely frothed. Make a gravy in the pan with what has dripped from the meat and a little boiling broth drawn from mutton trimmings: sgjt and pepper, Time, from twelve to fifteen minutes per pound; well done, eighteen minutes. Cost, about lid. per pound. To carve this, make a cut from a to b ; then tako off the slices as shown from c to n. A frill put on the knuckle improves the appearance, and, if liked, the meat can be glazed. Another way.—After taking off the skin and as much fat as may be neces- sary, the skin may be put back until the time for browning and frothing the meat. If the mutton is lean, and it is not thought necessary to hike off any fat from the top, simply baste the meat, and cook it minus papor or paste, but it will not be so full of flavour. If this method is followed, the basting must be almost incessant.* Irish Stew.—Required a pound of mutton, scrag end of the neck, two pounds of potatoes, half a pound of onions, salt and pepper, half a pint of water, boiling. Cost, about lOd. Cut the onions in rings, and the meat in neat pieces; put both in a saucepan with the water, and a sprink- ling of pepper; simmer for an hour, then add the potatoes, either in halves, or thick slices, and half a teaspoonful or more of salt. Cook gently for another hour, and serve on a hot dish. Some prefer the potatoes left whole, then they can bo put round the dish, and the meat, &o., in the centre. Shake the pan now and then, and stir a few times to prevent burning. If the potatoes are very mealy, rather more water can he used. This is a common mode, and for a much better dish, at the same cost, wo advise the scalding of the onions, and the par- boiling of the potatoes; or the latter may be boiled for a few minutes only, then drained, and added to the stew. Irish Stew, with Lentils or Haricots. — Prepare the stew as above, then serve round it, on the same dish, either of the above, boiled, * Many prefer to trim away only the super- fluous fat from the under part, and leavo the skin untouched.329 MUTTON. and seasoned with sago or parsley, or a spoonful of mixed herbs, and a little salt and pepper. This addition in- creases the nourishing properties of the dish. (See recipes under Cereals AND Pl'LSB.) Lancashire Hot Pot. — Re- quired: three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton, four mutton kidneys, a score of oysters, four onions, and three pounds of potatoes. Cost, about 4s. 9d. Cut the mutton into chops, chop off about one inch and a half from the end, and trim away all superfluous fat. Place a layer at the bottom of a brown t arthenware stewpot (called in Lanca- shire a “ hot-pot dish ”) and put over the mutton a layer of sliced kidneys, an onion cut into thin slices, four or five oysters, and half a pound of sliced potatoes. Sprinkle a saltspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoonful of curry - powder over them; then repeat until the dish is full. Place whole potatoes at the top, and pour in the oyster liquor and half a pint of water or stock. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake until the potatoes at the top are brown and crisp, but are cooked through. When ready to serve, pour half a pint of boiling gravy over the meat, and send it to table in the dish in which it was baked. Pin a napkin neatly round the dish for the sake of appearance. The oven must not be very hot, or the gravy will be dried up. For a very superior dish, at no greater cost, we recommend that the onions be scalded, and the potatoes parboiled. The top layer should be brushed over with butter. If the dish is set in another with hot water in, and a cover is put on the top, another improvement is effected. The onions, for some palates, might bo considerably reduced with advantage. The ends of the chops will make an Irish Stew ; or where strict economy is essential, they may be put in with the rest in the above dish. Leg, Boiled.—For boiling, this joint should not hang so long as for roasting. Two or three days will bo enough. Cut off the shank-bone, and, if necessary, wipe the joint with a damp cloth. Put it into a large oval stewpan with as much boiling water as will cover it. When restored to its boiling state, skim the surface clean, and in a few minutes draw the stew- pan to the side of the fire to allow the contents to simmer until done. Many cooks tie the meat in a cloth; this does away with the necessity for frequent skimming. For a.plain family dish, carrots, turnips, and onions may be boiled with the meat (the turnips mashed or not before serving, according to taste), and served on the dish. Fora more ornamental j oint, a few vegetable trimmings can be boiled with it for the sake of flavour, and the carrots, &c., may be cut into fanciful shapes and put in later, so as to be done by the time the joint is. A bunch of herbs will further improve the taste of the meat. Time, about twenty minutes per pound, or rather over. Caper sauce is generally liked, while onion or celery will be found equally good, and a pinch of celery seed, can be added to the herbs. (For other details, see Boiling, page 3.) Leg, to Carve.—The ordinary method consists in cutting straight across, like a leg of pork. The slice containing the kernel, and piece of fat called the Pope’s eye is considered the best. To carve this haunch fashion (see remarks on Carving, page 286) the slices must be cut parallel with the bone (see illustration on page 328). A nice leg of Southdown mutton, hung as long as is consistent with tho weather, and served with really good gravy, currant jelly, well-cooked vege- tables, and hot plates, will, if carved thus, compare very favourably with tho more aristocratic haunch. More than one writer asserts that if carved out of sight of the guests, not more than one in twenty would know the ono from the other. Whether this be truo K330 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. or not, the experiment is certainly worth a trial, particularly as the cost is not increased. Leg, to Roast.—Choose a plump log with a short hone, not a large- boned, thin leg. Have some dripping ready melted, and baste it well, especi- ally about the knuckle. Remember to cut off the shank-bone in good time, for the gravy; it is usekss to leave it on ; it is very useful if made the most of for gravy. After five to eight minutes’ sharp cooking, remove the leg farther back-, and cook very slowly, on account of its thickness. The more basting the better. If flour is used at the end, put it on in time, that there may be no raw taste; let the meat be a nice, rich golden brown when done. Make plenty of gravy ; that from the bone should be poured off, and used for rinsing out the tin (see page 87). Serve well-cooked vegetables, and, if possible, some fruit jelly with it. Red currant is usual, but black currant or tomato will be found very good, and furnish variety. Either is, in our opinion, improved by being heated; the jar should be set in a pan of boiling water, and the jelly poured into a well-heated sauce boat. Mutton cools so rapidly that we think that cold jelly, or any- thing that tends to cool it, should be avoided ; and the flavour of the jelly is not impaired by heating. For a number of guests, it is well to serve jelly both hot and cold. Cost, about lOd. or lid. per pound. Time, about two hours for a leg of six to seven pounds. In cold weather, two hours and a quarter for a leg of six pounds or rather over. Leg, with Forcemeat.—This is a common dish in Australia. Take for it a leg of Australian mutton, bone it, then pare off the outer fat from the fillet end ; minco and mix it with half its weight of bacon, also minced. Fat ham may be used instead. A season- ing of garlic, onions, and pickles is then given to it, and the mince is ready; or it is sometimes prepared simply seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, if to be eaten by ladies or children. The hollow made by cutting out the bone, &c., is filled with the mince, and' the skin secured over tho opening to the under- side. Bread-crumbs are sometimes added. Meanwhile, a gravy is made by boiling the bone and trimmings with as much mutton broth or water as will be necessary to stew the leg; vege- tables are added, an onion and a carrot sliced, a small bunch of parsley, with a seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay slices of bacon over the top of the leg, and stew gently, with tho lid of tho pan closed, for three hours and a half or more. When done, strain the gravy, boil it rapidly, and reduce it to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, or thicken the gravy simply with browned flour, and serve it with the meat. French beans, boiled in the usual manner, drained, and then wanned up in some of the gravy, may be laid under and around the leg of mutton. Cost of mutton, from 7d. per pound. In some towns legs of Australian mutton are sold at ti^d. per pound, or less. Leg, with Haricot Beans.— The leg may bo roasted or baked ; if the latter, unless basted very often it will be dry; it is greatly improved if covered with a greased paper after a preliminary basting with hot fat. It should then be basted over the paper, which must be taken off in good time for the surface to crisp up, or it will taste greasy. As to the choice of the leg, sec remarks under Leg, to Roast. Writing on this subject, Sir Henry Thompson recommends tho beans known as “white Soissons,” a pint of which should be put, after boiling, into the gravy of the dish, round the leg (or shoulder) of mutton. Ho adds that “ with a good supply of tho meat gravy, and' a little salt and pepper, the haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton.” Then, “ with a smooth puree of mild onions, which have been previously sliced, fried brown, and stewed, served freely331 MUTTON. as sauce, our leg of mutton and haricots becomes the gigot <i la Bretonne, well known to all lovers of wholesome and savoury cooker}'.” We would add that the haricots are as acceptable with a loin or neck, as a leg or shoulder, and may be served with chops or cutlets with as much certainty of success as with a joint. For moro details concerning the haricots, see under Cereals an d Pulse. [Ike also Union- Purees and Sauce.) Leg, with Potatoes.—This is a homely way of cooking, not to bo despised on account of its simplicity. If baked carefully, and cooked to the right degree, it will be found excellent. Instead, however, of the usual custom of baking the potatoes in the same tin, by which they absorb the dripping and gravy, we prefer the following way :— Supposing the leg to be set on a trivet in a plain tin, or a hot-water tin, baste it well at starting, then cook it gently. Boil four pounds, or thereabouts, of potatoes, until three-parts done, then drain (or what is still better, steam them for the same time). Cut them through lengthwise, and lay them flat side down, in a single layer in a separate baking tin. Pour some of the hot fat from the meat over, and cook until crisp, brown, and well done, about twenty minutes. Time them, that they may- be done by the time the meat is. Make gravy in the pan for the meat. Dish the leg, put the potatoes round, and serve the gravy separately. Serve a leg of pork in the same way. Austra- lian mutton may he used in this way. Loin, Roasted. — Follow tho directions given for roast leg in every particular, but trim off all unnecessary fat, which may be used for a common pudding or pie crust. If the fat be not turned to account there is no moro ex- pensive joint than a loin of mutton. Cover the fat with paper until within a quarter of an hour of its being done, then remove, taste, and flour slightly, to get it frothed. Instead of paper, take off tho skin of the meat, and, after cutting off some of the fat, replace ths skin; remove it for tho meat to brown. If the loin bo small, or it is not necessary to tako off any fat, simply baste it; do not take off the skin. It is, however, generally necessary to remove some of the under fat; few people care for very much of it. Cost, about lOd. per pound. Loin, Roasted, with Hari- cots.—Thisisa very good dish. Either serve some boiled haricots in the gravy round the joint, as directed for a leg of mutton, or make a puree, for which tho split beans are nicer (see Cereals and Pulse). Or, cook some green haricots, sprinkle them with chopped parsley, and serve in a vegetable dish. If onion-sauce is liked, it is excellent with the haricots; a mild one is most suitable; best of all is soubise sauce. A puree of onions is delicious ; serve it apart from the beans (see Vegetables). Cost, about lOd. per pound. Loin Flap, to Stew.—Required: meat, vegetables, gravy, and seasoning, as below-. Cost, about ‘2s. Wo have, in some of our recipes, advised the re- moval of the flap before cookingtheloin; out of many ways of cooking it, the fol- lowing w-ili be one of the most likely to give satisfaction : Sprinkle the inner side with pepper, a grate of nutmeg and lemon peel, and some chopped parsley; or when mint can be had, use that. Lay it, fat down, in a pan, put on tho top of it a good-sized Spanish onion, sliced, a couple of young carrots and turnips cut up, and let it fry brown in its own fat; then take it up on a plate. Add a pint of cold stock to the contents of tho pan, remove tho fat. and put in two or three parboiled potatoes, and a small quantity of fresh green peas (a gill or so). When it boils, cut up the meat, put it back, and cook altogether for another hour or less, very gently. If tho peas are young, give them less time. Tho potatoes and turnips aro intended to boil down to a pulp, to thicken the gravy, which only wants the addition of salt and pepper, and a few drops of browning. If any mint-sauce is at332 UNIVERSAL COOKEKY BOOK. hand, a spoonful may be put in last thing, and remnants of cooked vege- tables of various sorts can go into the stewpan. Serve very hot. See also Mutton Chops with Vege- tables. The above can be fried and finished off with the vegetables as therein given; but it must be fried well, and simmered rather longer than the chops. Mutton a la Venison.—This, if carefully cooked, will be almost equal to venison ; any joint may be used, but we give directions for a leg, or piece of the same weight. First wipe the meat thoroughly ; it must be of good quality and freshly killed, then rub it with the following mixture:—a quarter of an ounce of black popper, a saltspoonful each of ground cloves and allspice—i.c. Jamaica peppercorns or pimento—a teaspoonful each of ground ginger and bay leaves; put it into a marinade of red wine and vinegar, about a gill of each. Leave it for three days, rubbing and turning it daily, then wash it in warm water, very quickly, and dry it well, and cook it exactly like venison, sending the same sauces and adjuncts generally to table with it. Or, if preferred, it can be cooked as mutton, with no addition but the ordinary gravy, and will be found excellent in flavour, and a decided change from a plain joint. If seasonable, serve French beans, plainly boiled, with this. Neck, Boiled.—Shorten the ribs and saw off the chine-bone of a neck of mutton, or from three to four pounds of the middle, or the best end. Pare off the fat that is in excess of what may be eaten, and boil slowly, as given under the head of Leg, Boiled, which see. There is a peculiar sweet flavour from this part, and the pot- liquor is admirably adapted for broth. Some rice or barley may be served in it, and will be all the nicer if boiled with the meat, which should, how- ever, be free from either when served, Sauce should be poured over, and some vegetables put round it. The liquor (if the broth is not wanted the same day) must be emptied into an earthen vessel, and the fat removed when cold. It is a good plan to boil the extreme scrag end with a sheep’s head, or somo similar part which requires skimming very often; if this is done, the neck gives but little trouble in this direc- tion, as the parts where the blood has clotted are those which throw up the most scum. This can bo cooked with- out the shortening of the bones above referred to. Cost, from 7d. to 9d. per pound. Neck, Browned.—Boil as in preceding recipe, but not quite so long; finish by cooking the mutton before the fire, first covering it with a mixture of fino bread-crumbs, parsley, and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little mushroom powder, cemented together with the beaten yolk of ono or more eggs. When nicely browned, serve with half a pint of tho pot liquor thickened with a dessertspoonful of browned flour, and add a tablespoonful of lemon juico. Time, a quartor of an hour to the pound. Cost, as above. Neck, Bioasted. — We have already recommended that the rib- bones of this joint should be shortened to give a nice appearance to cutlets, and we also, for economy’s sake, and to give a nice squareness to tho piece of meat, advise the purchaser to get it done for a roast. The meat of the neck from a well-fed sheep is very good indeed. Take off any excess of fat, and roast precisely according to direc- tions given for roast loin (see Loin, Roasted), always remembering that the fire for cooking mutton should bo clear and brisk, but not fierce. Finish off by making gravy in the pan. (S.e remarks at the end of the recipe for Shoulder, to Roast.) Time, about fifteen minutes per pound. The best end should be roasted alone; but if the entire neck is required, it should bo cut through, the scrag end requiring less time. For a family, theMUTTON’. 333 joint should be bought whole, whether nil be required at once or not. If the best end, or the middle, be sent for separately, more per pound must be paid. It is quite as easy, if cutlets are needed, to cut them from a neck hang- ing in one’s own larder, and have the benefit of the bones and fat, as to buy them as cutlets of the butcher. In the latter case, they will cost from two- pence to threepence per pound more, and the trimmings will be left behind on the butcher’s block. Cost of neck, if bought whole, about 8d. per pound. Neck, Stewed.—Required: three pounds of meat, half a pound each of turnips, onions, and carrots, a few stalks of celery, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 2d. The scrag end does for this: it must be rubbed with salt, and rinsed well in warm water with a little vinegar in, to free it from blood; then cut in neat pieces. The vegetables must be cleansed and sliced. Put all in a stewpan in layers, vegetables top and bottom, with stock No. 1 or 2 to cover; add a dozen peppercorns, a clove or two, and some parsley, then cover, and cook for two hours or more. When tender, add a tablespoonful of browned flour, salt to taste, and a little browning; boil up, remove the parsley, and serve on a hot dish. Another tcay.—This is very nourish- ing. Add a couple of ounces of pearl- barley (after soaking it for several hours) as soon as the gravy boils, and cook for three hours at least. Rice can be used in the same way, and takes rather less time. Other cereals can be substituted : coralline, rizine, and similar varieties are useful when full time cannot be given, as they take a comparatively short time. B.agout ( American ). — Re- quired : two pounds of lean meat, free from bone, a large cup (half-a-pint) of green peas, the same of gravy from the bones of the mutton, a fried onion, half a pound of salt pork, a slico of lean ham, seasoning as under. Cost, about 3s. Cut the pork in thin slices, and the mutton and ham in long strips. Put pork at the bottom of a saucepan, then chopped parsley and thyme; next add ham and mutton; put the peas in the middle; then the rest of the ham and mutton, and more pork over that. Put the fried onion on the top. Pour the gravy over, and let it boil steadily for an hour and a half or more. Pepper should be put on each layer. Add a little stock now and again. When done, put in salt to taste, and thicken with a tablespoonful of browned flour, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Put a large piece of toasted bread on a hot dish ; pour the ragout over, and serve with a border of potato-rice (potatoes passed through a colander) and some pickled melon in another dish. Any sweet pickle may be used. This is a very good dish. Anyone tired of ordinary mutton stews would do well to try it. A sheep's kidney or two is a good addition, and it is excellent with a small proportion of sheep’s liver. Saddle.—This is a very popular roast. A saddle of mutton, if hung in a cool airy place, will improve with keeping from one to three weeks, according to the weather ; but as this part of the sheep is the most tender and delicate, it may, if liked, be roasted in from four to five days. If not for a large family, get the joint well trimmed; the flaps, tail, and chump end may be cut away, which will con- siderably lessen the weight, and be found more advantageous to the pur- chaser, even at a higher price per pound, or the flap will make a plain stew. In its entire state it is con- sidered an expensive joint,consequently people of moderate means and family, unless so accommodated by the butcher, can seldom order it. All superfluous fnt must, in any case, be removed, and the joint covered with a greased paper. Roast as directed for a loin of mutton. It should be a nico brown when done, but not too dark. About twenty minutes por pound will bo required.334 UNIVERSAL COOKERY book. Laver is a good accompaniment to roast mutton (see Vegetables). Good gravy and hot jelly must not be omitted. The diagram below shows the mode of carving, which is quite simple, straight slices being cut from a to n. Relays of hot plates and gravy should be in readiness, and very little gravy should be upon the dish. A hot-water dish, as used for venison, is the best to serve mutton on. Cost, about lid. per pound, but it depends upon the mode of cutting a good deal. For a largo family, where the best can be made of every part, the saddle should be bought in its entirety. Savoury Stew.—Required: two pounds of mutton, lean (the neck does very well), a tablespoonful each of capers, rice, chutney, and parsley, a quart of stock or water, an onion, and a carrot, salt and pepper to taste, and a morsel of fat. Cost, about 2s. Chop the meat, but do not divide it; add the hot stock, and bring to the boil; grate the carrot, and chop the onion; brown the latter in hot fat; then add the rest, all but the salt. Simmer for two hours, stirring often, or the rico will stick lo the pan. Serve the meat in the centre of a hot dish, with the rice, &c., round it. The capers and parsley should be chopped very small. If mint is to he had, that can be substituted for parsley. Lamb ean be similarly served. Scrag, with Mushrooms.— Required : meat, mushrooms, &e., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. Wash very well the scrag end of the neck; dry and sprinkle it with pepper; flour it, and turn it about in hot fat until brown. Put it in a clean sauce- pan, with the liquor from boiled meat to cover it; add some peppercorns, and the trimmings of some mushrooms, first well washed, with a small onion, and a sprig of parsley. Throw in salt for the scum to rise; skim just before it boils up, then cook until tender. While cooking, chop half a dozen medium-sized flap mushrooms, and stow them down in a little of the same stock used for the mutton, with a chopped slialot and a sprig of parsley; season with pepper and salt, and thicken with browned flour. The mushrooms should be quite soft, and must be chopped small at starting. When the meat is done, strain the liquor, skim and reduce it, thicken with browned flour, and season it. Put the meat on a hot dish, and spread the mushrooms over it; pour some of the gravy round, and serve the rest separately. This will be very tender and tasty. Any joint, which is lean, may be so cooked. A piece of neck of mutton, boiled, and served with a white mushroom sauce or puree, is equally satisfactory (see Vegetables). Scrag, with Pickles. (See Souag, with Mush booms).—Prepare the meat in the same way, and bring to the boil; omit the mushroom peel- ings, and add instead a teaspoonful each of chutney and mixed pickles, hot, finely chopped. When the‘meat is done, put it on a dish, and keep it hot while the gravy is skimmed and thickened. Put a dozen pickled walnuts in the oven, in a saucer, to heat; cut them up, and add them to tho gravy ; pour it round the meat, and garnish with carrots, small onions, and turnips, all cooked in stock instead of water (see Vegetables). They may be whole if young. If old, slice or cut them in dice. Cost, as above.335 MUTTON. A loin is delicious cooked thus. It is advisable to pare off the greater proportion of fat, and to semi-roast it. The chump end should bo cut off. It is almost needless to add that the above recipe may he varied to any extent, as reference to the chapter on Pickles will show; and in place of onions, sholots can be used; leeks, too, are very good. Sheep’s Brains, Cakes of.— Take care not only to wash, but to trim these well from the fibres. It is most unpleasant to find anything of a stringy nature in the mouth. The first water should be cold, and the next hot: then, when skinned, tie them in a bit of muslin, and boil them in a little salted and flavoured white stock for a few minutes, and beat them up, either with powdered sage or parsley (finely chopped), or the two mixed, a little cayenne and white pepper, with a drop of mace or nutmeg essence, or a grate of nutmeg. Then beat in the yolk of an egg for each set of brains. A bit of grated lemon peel is often added. Finally, mix in a tea- spoonful of fine bread-crumbs, if very delicate cakes are wanted, and drop the mixture from a spoon into hot fat; when lightly browned, serve them. Cost, about 2d. to 3d., exclusive of the brains. Xo. 2.—These are more economical. Use enough bread-crumbs to make the mass firm enough to be shaped with the hands into cakes the size of a florin, and less than a quarter of an inch thick. These can be put in a frying-basket to cook. Little balls, the size of a large marble, can be made; or small ovals, like a nutmeg, if pre- ferred. They are useful for soups and many garnishing purposes. If the yolk of a hard-boiled egg be added, fewer crumbs are needed. A o. 3.—Boil the brains in gravy for ten or twelve minutes, drain them on a sieve, cut them in dice when cold, then coat them with beaten egg yolk, and icell-^easoneil bread-crumbs. Fry a light brown, and drain well. Sheep’s Brains with Tongue.—Required : brains and ton- gue, with seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Gd. to Sd. Remove the brains without breaking them, soak them in salted water for an hour, skin them, and pick away the fibres. Put them into boiling water, put the tongue, previously boiled with the head, with them. Let the brains boil quickly for a quarter of an hour; take them out, mince them, and beat them up with three tablespoonfuls of the liquor in which they were boiled, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a table- spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Add a spoonful of white roux, and boil up. Skin the tongue, put it in the centre of a small dish, pour the brains x’ound it, and serve very hot. Another way.—Mix a tablespoonful or two of tomato pulp with the brains, and other ingredients above-named, cream excepted. Boil up and serve. Or Cheese Sauce, about a gill, added to the brains after they are boiled, makes a savoury dish. Garnish with cooked Italian paste, and a few sprigs of fried parsley, or with any small, cooked vegetables. Sheep’s Brains, Roasted or Baked.—Required : brains, bacon, sauce, and vegetables. Cost, about 9d. to Is., exclusive of the brains. Four or six brains wiR be required for a dish. Prepare the brains as for stewing, and procure as many slices of bacon as there are brains. After they have been boiled and thrown into cold water, drain and dry them perfectly; brush over with oil, and roll them in highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Put them on the bacon before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake in a well-heated oven, turning them about that they may be equally cooked, and basting them occasionally. When they are nicely browned and the bacon is cooked, take them up. Serve on a flat dish covered with mashed potatoes browned in the oven, and send a sharp sauce to table. Or put the brains and bacon on a largoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. o36 slice of toast, and put some sauce over ; Tomato is as good as any. Sheep’s Brains, Stewed.— Required: some brains, bacon, stock, and seasoning as under. Cost, about the same as above. Wash, skin, and clear the brains of fibres, after they have soaked in salt and water. Put them in boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of white vinegar. Boil for twenty minutes, then drop them in cold water. Dry them well. Put each on a slice of bacon, lay them flat in a stewpan, cover with any plain stock, add a bit of onion and lemon pee), and simmer for as long as will cook the bacon. Thicken the liquor, add seasoning and a little lemon juice, and pour it over the whole on a hot dish. Garnish with toast or fried bread. Four or six brains make a nice dish. Sheep’s Harslet, Minced.— Take the liver, heart, and lights of a sheep, and wash them well in several waters. Boil them gently till tender in salted water, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Mince them finely, Season with pepper and salt, and add a seasoning of powdered herbs, if liked. Moisten the mince with stock, thicken witli brown thickening, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot. Serve on a hot dish, and send potatoes and boiled carrots to table with it. A few pickles may be served with it, if desired. Cost variable; but this is a cheap dish, popular in some parts of the country. The liquor is useful for soup. (See Remarks under Veal Pluck.) The recipe there given may also be followed. Harslet is the same thing as pluck, but the pluck of a sheep is generally called harslet. Sheep’s Head.—Sheep's hend has so little meat belonging to it, either inside or out, that it seems to many persons as though it wero scarcely worth the trouble it gives. Nevertheless, it constitutes good nourishing food at a moderate ex- pense, and when it is liked at all it is very much liked. Several recipes are here given for preparing it. It is one of the ancient national dishes of Scotland, and to dwellers north of tho Tweed is almost always welcome, not only on account of its intrinsic ex- cellence, but also because of the asso- ciations which belong to it. Tho village of Duddingston, near Edin- burgh, was long celebrated for this dish. A sheep’s head may be stewed with or without the trotters and the pluck; nourishing and wholesome broth may bo made from it; it may bo hashed, curried, or served as a ragout, or it may be made into a pie. When sauces are required for it, those usually served with cow-heel or boiled mutton are tho best adapted for it. Some prefer tho head of a ram to that of a wether, though it needs longer boiling. The liquor is often thickened with coarse oatmeal, and a nourishing dish is the result. Sheep’s heads may be parboiled, then finished off by baking or roasting. They want frequent basting, and are nicer if stuffed. (See recipe below.) Sheep’s Head, Boiled.— Required^ : two ounces of rice,, two turnips, two carrots, half a head of celery, a medium-sized onion, a bunch of herbs, seasoning and thickening, and a sheep’s head. Cost, about Is. 2d. Divide the head, take the brains out, and put them in cold water with a pinch of salt. Cut away all the little bones from the nose ; take away any bits of hair; clean the sockets of the eyes with the finger dipped in salt; then wash it thoroughly. Put the halves together, and tie them ; lay in a pot with the tongue ; cover with hot water, bring to the boil, and remove the scum, adding a pinch of salt now and then. Prepare and slice the vege- tables; put them on with the rice, washed, herbs, and some peppercorns, and boil gently. Put the brains in in time to make sauce with lliem and some of the pot liquor. Slash theMUTTON'. 337 vegetables and rico, and skin the tongue; then lay the head on the dish, with the sauce over, the vegetables round, and the tongue cut in four lengthwise, and laid, a quarter at each end and side of the dish. Another way.—The vegetables may be cut up small; the carrots should be grated, and put in an hour and a half before serving, then they need no mashing. Or, cut them in quarters, and serve them round the dish. Pearl barley instead of rice is excellent. Time, two hours or more. Sheep’s Head, Curried.— Required: a pint of Curry Sauce, a sheep’s head, and some boiled rice. Cost, about Is. 4d. Boil the head, tongue, and brains. Cut the head up neatly, skin the tongue, cut it in large dice, and beat up the brains with a tablespoonful or two of milk. Use some of the liquor from the head in making the sauce, and when it is ready, put in the head and tongue. After twenty minutes, just under boiling point, add the brains, and leave for a few minutes more; then put in salt, with more seasoning if wanted, and serve. The spare liquor from the head will make good soup or broth next day, and the bones should receive further stewing in it. Any rice left over from the curry can be added to it. Sheep’s Head with Oatmeal. —Required : a sheep's head, a half- pint of sliced vegetables, as usually added to stews, three pints of cold water, seasoning, and three ounces of medium oatmeal. Cost, about Is. After preparing the head in the usual way, put it in a stewpan with the tongue, and cover with the water; bring to the boil, and skim well; add the vegetables and oatmeal, and cook until the meat falls from the bones : then cut :t up and season to taste, and serve altogether on a hot dish. The bones will make soup or stock if put on again with the skin of the tongue. The latter, with the brains, will make another dish. The foregoing is an excellent dish for children, being nutritious and digestible as well as palatable. Oatmeal may often be served in this, or a similar way, when it is disliked as porridge. By way of variety, pearl barley may be used in- stead of oatmeal. Wheatmeal is also good. Time, about three hours. Lambs’ heads are equally good, and take less time to stew. Sheep’s Head with Trotters. Required: a sheep’s head, a gang of trotters, a carrot, an onion, half a gill of vinegar, water and seasoning, flour and dripping. Cost, about Is. 4d. The trotters should be washed and put in a stewpan with a quart of cold water, the vinegar, sliced vegetables, and a sprig of parsley; let them boil fpr two hours, then put in the pre- pared head, in halves (keep the brains and tongue for another dish) with another quart of hot water : cook for two hours more. Then put a pint and a half of the liquor in another sauce- pan, in which two ounces of flour and an ounce of dripping have been blended; boil up, add salt and pepper, some herbs in powder, and a spoonful of ketchup or store sauce. Dish the head, with the trotters round it, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. Sheep’s Heart, Baked.—Pre- pare as for roasting, and bake, broad end down, in a dripping tin; or pour some stock round, and use it for the basting. This latter method more resembles stewing in its results, but it is called baking, because the heart is cooked in the oven. Another way, which can be recommended, suppos- ing three or four hearts are being cooked at once, is to put them in a baking-dish—one of the oval kind with a lid is nice for the purpose— with plenty of sliced onions and other vegetables, and some stock to three- fourths their depth. A few bits of bacon should bo laid on the top, and after a couplo of hours in a slow oven they will be found very tender. Put them on a hot dish, freeing them first from moisture', and sprinkle withUNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 338 crumbs : while they are browning before the fire, strain the gravy and skiin it, or pass the vegetables through a strainer or colander, and serve them in it. Then thicken with browned flour, and give a nice seasoning of salt, popper, and sauce or ketchup. Some rice can be put in the gravy if liked, sufficient to make it quite thick, but the oven must be very slow. A morsel of brown sugar will tend to improve the hearts, so will a squeeze of lemon juice, or a few drops of vinegar. Brown mushroom sauce, or a puree of mushrooms, is a nieo accompani- ment, if the heart be stuffed with plain herb forcemeat. Cost of heart, about 9d. S h eep’s Hearts with Raisins.—Mix together for the stuffing an equal bulk of grated bread-crumbs and chopped raisins; add a morsel of butter, an ounce to four ounces of the mixture, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper; fill the hearts, and then bake or roast them, and serve with brown gravy (see Gravies for Hashes, Stews, &c.) thickened and flavoured with a bit of currant jelly. This will be liked by any who are used to American dishes. (See also Partridges with Raisins.) Sheep’s Hearts, Roasted.— Rcqnired: a couple of hearts, a pint of gravy, some stuffing, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. Hearts cost from 8d. to 9d. each. Soak the hearts in cold water, or leave them under a running tap; cut away the pipes, and trim them nicely. Either leave each cavity to bo filled separately, or cut them all to form one; in this wav more stuffing can be got in. Then fill them, using plain or rich veal forcement, or one of those givon for ducks. Tie a greased paper over them, or use some muslin; it should bo drawn all over, and tied at the pointed end; or a few small skewers put in opposite directions, may be used to secure the forcemeat : again, a needle and thread can be employed. A few thin slices of fat bacon may be skewered round the heart, and will reduce the necessary basting. Cook before a clear fire from forty minutes to an hour, accord- ing to size. Serve with a plain gravy, or what is still better, a brown caper sauce. If the heart is stuffed with sage and onions, onion sauce can be served with it. Sheep’s Hearts, Stewed.— They may be stuffed or not; if plain, brown them for ten minutes in hot fat, and then add gravy (see above recipes) to cover. Cook for an hour or more, and make the gravy thick and brown. It should be also rather piquant. Pour it over the hearts, and put some vegetables on the dish ; they may be stewed in the gravy, or sepa- rately boiled. Cost, as above given. Sheep’s Kidneys, Broiled.— Cut the kidneys in two lengthwise, without quite dividing them; use a small skewer to keep them open; dip them in hot fat (butter or clarified dripping), and sprinkle with pepper; broil the cut side first, turn them every minute until done; add a pat of maitre d’hotel butter, and serve hot. Kidneys should be eaten directly they are done : they spoil by waiting ; when cut, the gravy should flow freely. For a superior dish, cut them in halves, and take the thin skin off, then skewer them as above. Sheep’s Kidneys, Grilled.— Proceed as above, using the gridiron instead of the Dutch oven, or other broiling apparatus. Time, about twelve minutes. Cost, about 2d. each. In some large towns they are sold at 3d. Sheep’s Kidneys, Stewed.— Skin anti halve the kidneys, then cut them through again. Required: for four kidneys, a gill of stock, No. 1 or 2, a teaspoonful each of lemon juice, chopped parsley, and Worcester sauce, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Cost, about Is. Brown the kidneys in a morsel of339 MUTTON. hot fat for a couple or three minutes, then add the rest; the stock should be warm ; bring to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes, then add a slight thickening of browned flour, and the salt, and cook for a minute or two more. Chopped onions or mushrooms can be used in place of pursier. Sheep’s Liver and Bacon.— Required : a pound and a half of liver, half a pound of onions, twelve ounces of fat bacon, a teaspoonful each of sage and salt, and half as much pepper, a pint of water, and two ounces of flour. Cost, about Is. Sd. Wash and slice the liver, dry it well, and roll each slice in the flour mixed with the pepper. Slice and fry the bacon, keep it hot, and fry the liver, turning it often, and then the onions ; they should be very thinly sliced. Put all on the top of the bacon, on a hot dish, and put the remainder of the flour (left from the liver) in a basin; mix it with a pint of cold water and the sage and salt; stir it into the pan, and scrape the bottom well. Give it a few minutes’ boiling, colour it a good brown, and pour it over all. Give the liver about fifteen minutes, or rather more. After the first minute, to close the pores on both sides, raise the pan, and cook slowly ; it must look pale, not red, all through. Any redness proves insufficient cooking, and it is, in that condition, very unwholesome. Any who are in the habit of indulging in pork, duck, or goose, with apple sauce, will be wise to serve a tureen of it with the above : that, together with the sage and onions, will give the dish a flavour very little inferior to goose or duck itself; at any rate, it will be found no mean substitute for either. The proportion of onions and sage may' be increased according to taste. If two pans are handy, fry the onions in one, while the liver is frying in the other. Sheep’3 Liver and Cucum- ber3. —Required : liver, cucumber, bacon, bread, See., as below. Cost, about Is. 9d. for a dish from a pound of liver. Stew down some young cucumbers [see recipes in Vege- tables), and mix with a little thick gravy, after the cucumbers have be- come a pulp. Mutton stock should be used for the gravy, a thickening of brown roux added, and a nice seasoning. Have ready ns many pieces of fried bread as there are slices of liver. The latter should be cooked as directed in the previous recipe. Cover the bread with cucum- ber, put a piece of liver on, then more cucumber ; place a little slice of bacon on the top, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Liver and Toma- toes.—Proceed as above, but use plain tomato Bauce or puree instead of the cucumber. If liked, a stuffed sheep’s heart, covered with thick brown gravy made in the pan (see Sheep’s Liver and Bacon) can be served in the centre of the dish; or three or four kidneys, broiled, and cut in halves or quarters, may be laid round, each on a bit of fried bread. Cost, variable. Sheep’s Tongues. — If the tongues are not required with the heads, and it may happen that they can be served without them, a nice dish may be had by serving them quite plainly boiled, with the brains, and a nice sauce. A bit of boiled bacon or pickled pork will eke out the meat, and improve the flavour. They are very good, too, if cooked by the recipe for Sheep’s Tongues, Broiled.— Required: a couple of tongues, some stock, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 8d. Rub each tongue with a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and a pinch of pepper, and cloves or nutmeg, in fine powder. In a few hours (or leave them all night), rinso them, and boil them in the liquor from boiled meat, or plain water will do; a bit of ham will improvo their flavour, so will a few scraps of vegetables. Cook until the skin will come off ; cut them through lengthwise, and sprinkle340 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them with herhs and bread-crumbs; add a dash of cayenne, and brush them with clarified butter. Broil them, turning often, for twenty minutes. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over last thing. If preferred, the salting can be omitted. They can then be boiled in the stock-pot, or with a piece of meat (a bit of pickled pork, for instance); if it is rather fat, all the better. Sheep’s Tongues, Grilled.— Boil as in the foregoing recipe; skin the tongues when cold, and coat them on the insides with the following: for four tongues—four good-sized mush- rooms, two ounces of boiled ham in little (lice, a half-teaspoonful of grated lemon peel and powdered thyme, the same measure of chopped parsley, and a little salt and pepper. Put the tongues in their original shape, and wrap them each in greased paper. Grill over a clear fire for ten to fifteen minutes. Remove the papers and serve very hot. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. Th is prepared, the tongues are very delicious with the heads, or with a dish of liver and bacon. Calves’ tongues aro equally good with head, feet, or cars, or as a breakfast dish. The paper can be dispensed with if the tongues are tied round, and dipped in hot dripping : or a thin slice or two of bacon can be tied round each. Sheep’s Trotters, or Feet.— These can bo had as a rule at the tripe shops, partially boiled. If neces- sary to prepare them at home, take the wool from the hoofs, singe away the hair, and put them in boiling water for fivo minutes. Clean and scrape them, and cut an inch from the end of the foot, including the hoof, and take away a dark substance which grows between the divisions of the hoof. Sheep’s trotters are sold in angs (four), and are nourishing and igestihle. They should be soaked for a few hours in cold water before they are cooked in any way. Cost, about Cd. per dozen. Sheep’s Trotters, a la Pou- lette. — Required : trotters, sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. For this, blanch the trotters, then put them on in stock from mutton bones, with vegetables to flavour, and boil until done. Drain them well. For twelve feet, have ready a pint and a half, or rather more, of white sauce, flavoured with lemon or mushrooms. Re-heat them in this, and serve in a pile: garnish with fried bread, parsley, or slices of hard-boiled eggs, or little mushrooms cooked in butter. Sheep’s Trotters, Fried.— Boil them as directed above, remove the bones, and press them until cold; then dip them in thick batter, and fry brown. They will be more savoury if seasoned with herbs or cheese before coating them. A sharp sauce should bo served with them. Sheep’s Trotters, Pate of.— Take a coarse earthen pate-dish which has a closed-fitting cover. Procure throe “ gang ’’ of sheep’s trotters already cleaned and parboiled, and cut each one into three pieces. Pack them closely in the pate-dish, and, to season them, sprinldo between the layers a little pepper, salt, and pow- dered spice, together with a moderate proportion of minced onion, chopped parsley, powdered thyme, and bay- leaves”. Place the cover on the dish, and in order to prevent the escape of the steam, fasten it down with a coarse paste made of flour and water. Put the pate in a gentle oven for five or six hours, or if it can be done let it be put in a baker’s oven after the bread is drawn, and remain there all night. If gently cooked the feet will be reduced to jelly, and will constitute an excellent dish, which may be served hot or cold. If the oven is too much heated the feet will be burnt up, dry, and good for nothing. A tablespoonful of vinegar, tarragon, onion, cucumber, or herbal, will give piquancy to this dish. By reducing341 MUTTON. the seasoning and spices to the smallest limit, it will bo found a nice dish for an invalid. If the feet are not easily obtained, add a calf’s foot or two, or an ox foot, or some meat from a sheep’s head. Cost, about lOd. Shoulder, Boned and Rolled. —In the diagram below is shown a shoulder of mutton (lamb or veal) as it will appear when the bones (knuckle excepted) are removed. It may be stuffed, and then roasted, or cooked as desired. It is a nice looking dish, and easy to carve. We wish, too. to call Shoulder of Mottos, Boxed and Rolled. attention to the method of tying it, as well as to the joint itself, as it illus- trates clearly the way of binding any- thing of a similar kind, and can be more easily followed than any written description. Calf’s Head, Ox Cheek, and Galantines of all sorts should be tied thus, with tape, not string. As to the boning, we can only repeat our advice to keep the knife close to the bone, and avoid piercing the outer flesh. The accomplished boner may like to bone the knuckle also, then draw the meat inside, and so give the joint a still more compact appearance. Shoulder, to Carve.—Simple as is the carving of this to the experienced hand, it is a joint which some find rather difficult to servo evenly and fairly. We give two diagrams. Some will succeed better with No. 1; others may find No. 2 the easier. In Fig. 86 a cut is made as shown from b to a. Tho joint will then open, Fio. SG.—Shoulder of Mutton. and leave a triangular space; slices must then be removed from b a and c a, until the bone is reached ; then slices must be taken from tho meat on the under-side, by turning the shoulder over, and cutting horizontally, lilre a round of beef. In Fig. 87 make a cut as shown by a to b ; take off as many slices as can be removed, then cut in the direction of c D and E F. Then turn the shoulder, and cut from the other side, which is tender, though coarser in the grain than the top part. Shoulder, to Roast.—Let this hang from two to three weeks in cold, dry weather; if damp, it will not keep nearly so long. Put it down to a clear fire and basto well at first; the same may be Eaid if it is baked ; and by tho latter method, a shoulder may be veryUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 342 nicely cooked. Time, about a quarter of an hour per pound, and a quarter of an hour over. If thick, and the weather cold, give twenty minutes per pound. Browned potatoes—i.e. par- boiled and finished off in the oven— are frequently served with this joint; so are Spanish onions (boiled, baked, or stewed), together with onion sauce. Grilled or baked tomatoes, or a tureen of tomato sauce, may be also recom- mended. Celery or mushroom sauce (brown), or one of a piquant kind, furnishes yet another change. With regard to joints generally, we are strongly of opinion that many who complain of the joint itself, do so because the changes are not sufficiently rung upon the ways of serving it. It is quite common to meet with people who have never served boiled mutton with any other sauce than caper, or roast mutton with anything but onion sauce. Both aro excellent, but apt to become monotonous. Spiced Mutton.—Required : a pound and a half of lean meat (from the leg if at hand), four ounces each of onions and celery, seasoning as below, and some hot chutney. Cost, about Is. 9d. Cut the meat into pieces about the size of a walnut, sprinkle them with a mixture of curry powder, ground all- spice and coriander, powdered ginger and cloves; a good teaspoonful in all; less of cloves than any other. Then dredge each piece with pepper. Melt some dripping, fry the meat a delicate brown with the onions in dice, then pour the fat off, add half a pint of brown stock (as No. 2 or 4), put in the shredded celery, boil up and skim. Cook until the meat is very tender, add a heaping tablespoonful of sultana raisins half an hour before serving, and salt and chutney to taste, also an ounce of rice flour blended with stock. When finished, the whole should be thick, the sauce just coating the meat. Serve with any approved vegetable. This is very appetising, affords a nice change from the usual methods of serving mutton, and is as good cold as hot. If cinnamon is not objected to, a pinch am be put with the rest of the spices. Lamb can bo cooked as above, but the quantity of seasoning should bo decreased. Steak of Mutton.—For this, wo will suppose that a leg of mutton has been bought, the fillet roasted, and the knuckle end is intended for boiling or stowing. Cut off from the thick end of the knuckle a slice of twelve ounces or so in weight, and grill or broil it nicely. Put it on a hot dish with a pat of butter, for which various recipes aro given (see Index), and surround it with vegetables of any kind; amongst’ the most suitable are potatoes (fried), mushrooms, tomatoes, carrots and turnips, braised, grilled, stewed, &c.; or a puree of greon vegetables of any sort. So obtained, this need not be a costly dish; but if bought of the butcher for the purpose, it is expen- sive. If cut thick enough, this is likewise excellent when stewed, or braised. [See Made Dishes.) Steaks with Oysters. —Re- quired : two steaks, equal in size and thickness, some oyster forcemeat (see Fohcemeats), and gravy as below. Cost of oysters uncertain, about Is. 4d. per score. Lay the steaks flat, season one side of each with pepper (cayenne), a pinch of ground mace, and grated lemon peel; then spread with the forcemeat, half an inch thick ; lay the two steaks together, brush over each of the outor sides with warm butter, and sprinkle with the same seasoning that was used for the interior. Put them before the fire, and give each side a minute, then draw them back, and cook gently for about thirty to forty minutes, unless thin, then less time does. Make a little gravy, and season it with some of the oyster liquor, with salt and pepper to taste.LAMB. 343 LAMB. House Lamb (by which is meant lamb born in the middle of winter, reared under shelter, and fed, in a groat measure, upon milk) is considered a great delicacy. It may be obtained from Christmas to Lady Day. Then, gTass lamb, or lamb brought up out of doors, and fed upon grass, comes into season. Like all young animals, lamb ought to he thoroughly cooked, or it is most unwholesome. Lamb is usually cut into quarters, aud of these the fore-quarter, which consists of the shoulder (3), the breast (5), and the neck (4), is considered by many the best. It should bo cooked fresh, and its quality may be easily tested by the appearance of the vein of the neck, which should be ruddy or of a bluish colour. 1 f green, it is not good. It is generally roasted, though in very young lamb, the leg, which is frequently served by itself, and makes a useful and excellent joint, may be boiled and sent to table with a suitable sauce. The hind-quarter, consist- ing of the leg (1) and loin (2), is better for hanging two or three days. As, however, lamb will not Fio. 88.- Lamb Divided into Joists. keep well in unfavourable weather, or for any length of time, it should be examined daily, aud the moisture carefully wiped from the joints. In order to ascertain whether or not it is fresh, place the finger between the loin and kidney. Any taint may be easily discovered by the smell. The fat of lamb should bo firm and light, the lean clear and also firm, especially the knuckle. If the fat be yellow, and lean flabby aud red, the lamb is of iuferior quality, and will not keep. Where economy is a consideration, lamb should not be bought before it is five months old. When lamb becomes large enough, the quarters are sub-divided into joints. The leg is the most profitable for a family, but the shoulder is very delicious in flavour. The loin makes a most excellent roast, while the neck and breast may be cooked in various ways, all of them appetising. The head, sweetbread, and fry are much esteemed, and furnish many dishes of a dainty kind. See also Entries, Cold Meat Cookery, and recipes under Mutton. Breast, Boiled.—Follow the recipe for mutton ; serve a nice white sauce with it; caper, white mushroom, and others are equally suitable. The vegetables served with it should bo young, and may be cut into fanciful shapes. Green peas are as good with boiled lamb as with roast, though seldom served with it. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. per pound. Breast, Broiled. — Required : lamb, stock, seasoning, &c. Trim a breast of lamb, and put it into a stew- pan .with as much stock as will just cover it. ' Add a,bunch of sweet herbs and an onion stuck with one or two cloves, and let it simmer very gently until it is sufficiently tender to remove the bones, then take thoso out. Sprinkle a little pepper and Balt over tho moat,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 344 brush it over twice with egg and bread-crumbs, to which, if liked, a little chopped parsley can be added, or a teaspoonful of powdered herbs, and broil it over a clear fire. When it is brightly browned on one side, turn it carefully to brown the other; serve hot with Sauce de Menthe, or with ordinary mint sauce. The following can also be recommended. Put a gill of good stock from lamb or mutton bones on to boil; add the same measure of Brown Sauce, the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped capers, and the same of red currant jelly; put in a pinch of cayenne last thing. This recipe may be followed for roast lamb by way of variety. Brown Caper Sauce is delicious with the above, or with the same joint baked or roasted. Cost, Sd. to 9d. per pound. Chops, Fried.—Cut a loin of lamb into chops from half to three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Dip each one into beaten egg, and after- wards into bread-crumbs, flavoured as follows :—Mix three ounces of finelj’’- grated bread-crumbs with a salt- spoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of finely- chopped parsley or mint, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of tinely-minced lemon rind. Fry the chops in good dripping until lightly browned on both sides. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon or crisped parsley. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Cost, about Is. per pound. Chops, Grilled.—Cut the chops about half an inch thick, trim them neatly, flatten them, place them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and let them remain until brightly browned on both sides, turning them with steak- tongs when required. Season them with pepper and salt, and servo as hot as possible. Garnish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or spinach are usually served with lamb chops. Time, about ten minutes. Cost, about Is. per pound. Chops with Cucumber Sauce.—Dip the chops in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them {see Chops, Fried). When nicely browned, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, and put in the centre a puree of cucumber (see Dressed Vegetables). Or cucumbers fried or boiled maybe substituted. Cost, about 3s. 6d. for a dish of six or eight. Fore Quarter, to Roast.— This joint can scarcely be too fresh when dressed. Remove the scrag, the shanlc-bone, and the chine-bone, and crack the ribs half-way between the edge of the breast and the spine. Lay the meat down to a quick fire, and baste plentifully from the start until it is ready for the table. About ten minutes before it is taken up dredge a little flour over it, and froth and brown it nicely. A slice of fresh butter, a cut lemon, and a little cay- enne should be sent to table, so that when the shoulder is separated from the ribs they may be ready for being laid between the two. This separation is sometimes effected before the joint is sent to table, but, of course, this must depend upon tho wish of the carver. Serve the lamb with a cut paper ruffle on the shank bone, and send a little gravy made from the roast under it. Mint sauce and salad generally accompany this dish, also a tureen of gravy. To carve, separate the shoulder: see A a a in the diagram. This is then transferred to another hot dish, some lomon juice being squeezed over theLAMB. 345 breast, tho lemon first dipped in the cayenne. Then separate tho ribs and brisket, and cut tho ribs through; see c b. The guests should be asked if they prefer ribs or brisket The shoulder may not be required at all while hot, the other parts being usually first chosen. Another tcay.—Put slices of bacon over the thick part of the lamb, and brush the thin part with clarified butter before roasting. Before dish- ing, take the bacon off and dredge with crumbs; let them brown well, then serve. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Head, and Heart.—See recipes under Mutton. Reduce the time in proportion to the size. Hind Quarter.—Take a hind- quarter of lamb, saw off the knuckle- bone, and wrap the joint in oiled or buttered paper. Put the roasting- hook through the shank end, and place the joint before a clear fire. Baste it frequently with good dripping. Twenty minutes before it is taken down dredge a little flour over it, brown it nicely, and place it on a hot dish, with two or three tablespoonfuls of good gravy with it, and the rest in a tureen. Mint sauce should always accompany roast lamb. A second sauce may also be sent to table. Send to table an empty hot dish upon which the carver may place the leg when it is severed from the loin. Time, twenty minutes to each pound, and twenty minutes over. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Send lemon, cayenne, and butter to table, as for the fore-quarter. In carving, treat the joints as if they were separately served, ascertaining the preference of the guests with re- gard to the parts. Hot Pot (Superior).—Required : two pounds of loin or neck of lamb, four sheep’s kidneys, half a pint of gravy, seasoning as under, and two pounds of potatoes. Cost, about 3s. 3d. Cut the meat up, take the bones out, and stew them down for stock, which should be nicely flavoured, and thick- ened a little with roux. Butter a deep dish, line it bottom and sides with some of the potatoes, parboiled and sliced. Quarter tho kidneys, and put them next, with the meat, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper, with chopped mint or parsley, and a sus- picion of minced shalot over each layer. Put the rest of the potatoes on tho top, and pour tho gravy over. Bako in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. The dish should be covered until nearly done, then left uncovered, for the surface to brown. To assist this, brush the potatoes over with thin glaze, or shake fine raspings over. Before serving, sprinkle with chopped parsley. Send to table in the dish as hot as possible. Lean mutton can be used, and mushrooms or tomatoes added if pre- ferred to the herbs and shalots. Kidneys. — These are usually served with the Fry (see next page). Lamb, Cooked "Whole (some- times called Lamb a l’Espagnole).— On the Continent lambs are occasion- ally roasted entire, something like sucking-pigs, and are very delicate and good. It is evident that for this the animal must be very young, not more than five or six weeks old. The only preparation required is to remove the skin, take out the fry, and cut off the feet; then cover the lamb with slices of bacon fastened on with fine string, put it down to a clear fire, and let it remain until done enough. Take the bacon off about a quarter of an hour before the lamb is taken up, so that it may brown, and take care that it is equally cooked all over. Squeeze tho juice of a lemon over it before serving, and send Bread Sauce and brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time to roast, two hours and a half or three hours. Probable cost, uncer- tain, lambs suitablo for this dish being seldom offered for sale. Thickly buttered paper, fivo or six folds, is sometimes used in plnco ofUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 346 the bacon, but care is needed to pre- vent burning of the lamb. Lamb, with Okra and Toma toes.—Required : a loin of lamb, or small mutton, a tin of “ okra and tomatoes,” a dozen small tomatoes, a cucumber, cut into dice shapes and boiled until tender. Cost, about lOd. or lid. per pound. Roast the meat as usual, then cut it up; put tho pieces round a hot dish. The tin of okra and tomatoes should be heated, and the superfluous liquor drained off; mix with the tinned vegetables an ounce of butter and a little seasoning, and put in the centre of the dish. Bake and glaze the toma- toes, and use them for garnishing, some on the top and the rest round the meat, using the cucumber as a foundation for them to rest upon. Make gravy as usual, add the liquor that was drained from the tin, boil up, and serve separately. Yeal may be served in the same way; and pork is equally good; but the latter is improved by adding some French mustard to the gravy, and a good-sized onion, fried, may be used instead of cucumber for the garnish. (See also Okra Salad.) Lamb, Roll of. — Required: lamb, bacon, seasoning, &c. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d. inclusive. Take three pounds of lean lamb, and mince it very finely with a pound of fat bacon. Mix with it a teaspoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a lemon, the eighth of a nutmeg, grated, a finely-minced shalot, half a tcaspoonful of pow- . dcred thyme, one egg, beaten up, and salt according to taste. The quantity of salt will depend upon the condition of the bacon. When thoroughly mixed, roll the seasoned meat into a neat shape, something like a roly-poly pudding; cover it with a thick fold of buttered paper, and placo over this a coarse crust made of flour and water. Put it in a moderate oven, and when cooked enough, remove the paste and paper, and serve tho roll of lamb on a hot dish, with Tomato or Cucumber Sauce round it, and green peas, spinach, or asparagus as an accom- paniment. It will take two hours. Lamb’s Feet.—Proceed as for Sheep’s Feet, and after tho cleansing and parboiling, finish them off in either of the ways given under that heading; or follow any recipe for Calf’s Feet, reducing the time in proportion to their size. They are delicious when coated with a nice white sauce. Cost, variable. Lamb’s Fry.—A fry proper con- sists of the heart, sweetbreads, liver, kidneys, frill, and milt; and if the head is bought at tho same' time the brains may be added with advantage. If carefully treated, this is delicious; but it is often fried and hardened, so as to be scarcely eatable. Trim the sweetbreads, and boil them in white stock for twenty minutes; then take them up, and boil the brains in the same stock until firm; then dry them, and cut them up with the sweetbreads ; egg and crumb them, and fry to a delicate brown. Stew tho heart and milt in the stock; slice and fry thorn with tho liver and frill (the latter need not bo parboiled), Slice the kidneys, fry them for a minute or two, tossing and turning. Now thicken and season the gravy, and pour it over the fry. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley and some slices of lemon. Cost, variable, according to demand; about lOd. per pound. For ordinary methods of cooking this, sec Pig’s Fry, p. 358. For tho separate treatment of the sweetbreads, see Entrees and Made Dishes. Leg, Boiled.—Put a plump log of lambinto as much boiling water ns will barely cover it. Let it boil a few minutes, then add a little cold water ; draw the pan to the side of tho fire, remove the scum carefully as it risos, and afterwards simmer gently until done enough. A teaspoonful of salt should, bo put. into the water when the lamb is three parts done. Put tho meat on a hot dish, garnish it with347 LAMB. ' tufts of boiled cauliflowor or carrots, or other vegetables to taste, and send caper sauco to table with it, a little poured over the joint, and the rest in a tureen. Time, from eighteen to twenty minutes per pound. Cost, lid. or Is. per pound. Leg, Roasted or Baked.— Follow the directions given under Mutton. If the joint is baked, a hot water tin or a substitute must be used, that it may retain its delicacy of flavour, and very frequent basting and slow cooking are important. Remem- ber these in estimating the time required. Leg, Stewed.—Required: meat, stock, and vegetables. The first thing to decide is whether a brown or white stew is desired. If the first, brown the meat all over in hot fat, then drain it, and cover with stock. made from mutton bones, and coloured a pale brown. The shank of the lamb should be added in making' it. Put in vegetables of the usual kind, with .a few peppercorns, but do not over- season it. Half an hour before it is -done, boil some peas separately; they should be young; prepare some turnips, by boiling, and cutting them in halves, and cut some carrots into dice; scoop out the centre from the halves of turnip. (See Vegetahles.) Take up the meat, thicken the gravy (the vegetables will not be wanted), and pour a little over the meat. Put the turnip cups round, filled with the peas, and the carrot in heaps between. Serve the rest of the gravy ■in a hot tureen. For a white stew, do not fry the meat or brown the -gravy ; and before serving, make .some white caper sauce, by taking some of the stock for the purpose. Pour some oyer the meat, and put vegetables as above about the dish ; or white vegetables only, with Iittlo heaps of peas, will do. Or plain white sauce can be poured over the meat, and the same sprinkled with chopped parsley', over the vegetables. Cost, about lid. per pound. Neck, Stewed.—Required: meat, stock, and vegetables. Joint a neck of lamb, and put it in a stowpan with a carrot, turnip, and an onion, sliced; add stock, made from a mutton bone, to just cover it; or the liquor from boiled mutton will do ; put in a table- spoonful of chopped capers, and an ounce of rice ; cover, and cook an hour and a half or thereabouts, very gently —nice young vegetables should be used, and the onion should be scalded. Put the meat and vegetables on a dish, boil the gravy' quickly', add a little brown roux .and seasoning; boil up well, and pour it over the meat. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Another way.—Prepare the meat as above, _and add the stock; cut the vegetables in squares {see Hakicot Mutton), and add them after the meat has cooked for a time; or, in- stead of mixed vegetables, a pint of freshly-shelled green peas jnny.be put in, half an hour before serving, with a tablespoonful of mint sauce last thing, or some chopped mint can be added with the peas. The scrag end of a neck of lamb, or mutton,1 must be weU washed, or constant skimming during the cooking will be needed. For other methods of cooking this joint, see Mutton. Saddle.—A saddle of lamb is an elegant and excellent joint for a small party'. Cover it with buttered paper, and lay' it down to a clear fire. Baste it well, and when nearly' cooked enough, removo the paper, dredge a little flour over it, and baste it again until it is nicely' browned. Mint Sauce should be sent to table with it, and green poas, spinach, cauliflowers, or potatoes are very' suitable as accom- paniments. The meat is improved by' a thin coat of gla?e. Allow about twonty to twenty-five minutes per pound. Cost, about 1 s. per pound. Shoulder, Stuffed and Stewed.—Take a shoulder of lamb, remove the blade-bone without injuring the outer skin, but leavo in the shank.348 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. bone. Fill the cavity from which the hone has been removed with a delicate voal forcemeat. Sprinkle the inner surface with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and draw together the edges of the shoulder with some strong thread. That is, it is not to be rolled, but retain its original shape : only an export in the boning art should attempt this. Stew in stock, and garnish the dish with fried cucumber, little toma- toes, or mushrooms; or with a puree. The gravy should be well reduced, and thickened with brown roux. Quite a plain stock will suffice. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Target.—The rib or target of lamb consists of the neck and breast- joints left undivided. Saw off tho chine-bone, and remove the flat bones which adhere to the meaty part of the neck. Partially divide the ribs, and cover the joint with buttered paper. Lay it down before a clear fire, and let it remain until done enough. A few minutes before it is ready, removo the paper, and brown the meat nicely. Place it on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and mint sauce to table with it. Time to bake or roast, an hour or more. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. per VENISON. Venison, like mutton, is better when of mature age. It must be kept until in the right state for table, and much care is needed to cook it properly; but when properly dressed, and served very hot, with plenty of good gravy, it is in every respect worthy of the high estimation in which i , is held by epicures. There are three kinds of venison known in Great. Britain; the stag or red deer, peculiar to Ireland; the roebuck, known only in the North of Scotland; and the fallow deer, common in Englaud. Of these the fallow deer is much the best. Buck venison, which is in season from June to the end of September, is finer than doe venison, which is in season from October to December. Neither should be dressed at any other time of tho year. The haunch is the prime joint, though the neck and shoulder are much approved, and may be dressed in various ways. As soon as it is cut up it should be taken into a cool dry larder, dried with a cloth, and hung in an airy place. Dry ginger and pepper should be dusted over it to keep off the flies. It should be examined and carefully wiped every day, or twice a day in unfavourable weather, and it should be kept as long as it is possiblo to preserve it untainted. Excepting in very mild weather, it will keep a fortnight with care. In order to ascertain its condition, run a skewer close to the bone, and from this judge of the sweetness of the venison. If it should inadvertently become musty, first wash it with lukewarm water, and afterwards with tepid milk and water, then dry it very thoroughly. The lean of venison should be dark and fine in the grain; the fat, of which there should be a good supply, ought to be firm, white and clear. To ascertain the age, the cleft of the hoof, which is always left on, must be examined. If very smooth and small, tho animal is young. If rough and large, it proves age.VENISON, 349 Breast, Stewed.—Cut up the back ribs or the breast of venisou into small neat pieces. Flour these, and fry them in butter with three or four sliced onions to each pound, and a small quantity of bacon cut into dice. When the meat is lightly browned, drain away part of the fat, and pour over the meat a cupful of good stock ; add a small bunch of sweet herbs, half a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a little pepper and salt. If the flavour is not objected to, a clove of garlic may be added, or the saucepan may be rubbed once or twice with a freshly-cut clove. Place the stewpan over a gentle fire till the venison is tender. Thicken the gravy with a little brown thickening, and let it simmer until it has thrown up its grease. Put the meat on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, and pour it round the venison. Garnish with fancy shaped pieces of toast, or fried bread. A few stewed mushrooms will be a great improvement to this dish. When venison cannot be had, well- hung four-year-old mutton may be used instead. This stew may be served in a casserole of rice or pota- toes. (See later chapters.) It is an excellent way of dressing venison which is lean and dry. Time, about two hours. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain, varying with the supply. Chops.—For a plain dish, cook these in any of the ways directed for mutton, but with venison sauce or gravy. Or just dissolve some red currant or other jelly, and send it to table in a hot tureen. Broiling or gnlling should be preferred to frying. The chops may be plain or breaded. Tomato butter or conserve, heated, or good brown tomato sauce, will be liked by some. Bacon finds favour with a dish of venison chops some- times ; it can be served on the same dish, alternately with the meat. How- ever the chops are cooked, do not keop them a moment before serving. If a hot water dish is not at hand, use a well-heated dish, and set it over boiling water while carrying it from the kitchen. A well-boiled, floury potato is a favourite and suitable ac- companiment. Crusted Venison (a German recipe).—Any joint can be thus pre- pared. After washing (it must be well hung), lay it flat in a pan, with cold water to cover it; supposing two quarts of water, add half a cup of vinegar, a carrot, an onion, a bay leaf, a bunch of hei'bs, as varied as convenient— basil and marjoram are necessary—two cloves, a score each of allspice berries, black peppercorns, and juniper berries, and a teaspoonful of salt. Skim when it boils, and cook until done. When tender, take it up, wipe the surface, and spread it with beaten egg. Mix brown bread-crumbs with a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and half a teaspoonful each of ground cloves and cinnamon ; sprinkle them over the meat to the thickness of half an inch. Skim off some of the fat from the pot liquor, and baste the crumbs with it; then bake it brown; serve sweet pickles with it, in addition to gravy'. Note.—We give this as received, but advise that hot or boiling water be used instead of cold, for the purpose of keeping in the meat juices; and that the spices be reduced a little, particu- larly the cinnamon. The recipe may then be followed for good, tender mutton, as successfully as for venison. Cutlets.—Cut from the loin, and cook the same as chops. Many of tho gravies and sauces given for game may- be served with these, and in some of them the meat may be stewed. French beans are always good with venison; as enjoy-able with cutlets as with a joint. Mushrooms are liked by many-, and tomatoes cooked in a savoury- manner are excellent. If stuffed with herbs, bread-crumbs, and bacon, then baked brown, they- are most appetising. {See recipes under Vegetables.) Cutlets, Broiled.—This is a very excellent dish. The cutlots should bo thick, from well-hung meat, dipped in hot fat, and cooked in aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 350 Dutch oven at a sharp fire. Fried bread-crumbs, first seasonod, should ho sprinkled over just before they arc served, and the dish should be garnished with sweet pickles,, or pickled walnuts; if the hitter, put them in the oven to drive, oft' the- acidity. Let the sauce or gravy be little and good, aud if jolly is served, it may he heated with advantage. If more convenient, the crumbing can ho omitted. Hash or Mince. [See Cold Meat and Sckap Cookbh»y.)—Under the head of Mutton will also he found dishes, in which the remains of cold venison might ho served up in a very “appetising manner. Haunch.—Take a well - hung haunch of venison, weighing from i eighteen to twonty-fivo pounds. If it weigh loss it will not be fully-flavoured. Be sure that it is in good condition. To ensuro this, it should he hung, as soon as it is brought in, in a cool, airy situation. The kernel of tho fat should he at once removed, tho part, from which it is taken wiped dry, and it, as well as the ontiro haunch, should ho dusted with pepper and powdered ginger. The haunch should ho examined twice a day, and if any moisture appears it should be wiped with a dry cloth ; and tho meat should he kept as long as it can he preserved swoet and untainted. In order to ascertain whether or not it is ready for dressing, run a skewer into the flesh close to the hone, and from this judge of the state of the meat. When it is to he roasted, saw off the shank-hone, remove the sinews, scrape away the dark dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Wipe the haunch thoroughly with damp cloths which have been wrung out of lukewarm water, then dry it perfectly. It should he remembered ■ that the more fat there is on the joint the better it will ho, and that, in roast- ing the main object is to preserve the fat. Therefore, first cover the haunch with a large sheet of well-greased, thick, white cartridge paper, then with a stiff paste of flour ■ and water rolled out to tho thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and tie securely over this' with string or tape two additional sheets of groasod paper. But the haunch down to a clear, sound fire, quite near at first, to harden the paste.' Draw it hack after a minute or two ;• haste tho venison tho moment it is put down to prevent the outer paper and the string from burning, and continue to haste frequently and liberally till' done enough. Half an hour before it' is done, remove tho paper and the paste from the meat, and fifteen minutes after take away the last paper. Sprinkle a littlo salt ovor the meat,' dredge the surface lightly with flour, and then baste with butter. Pour tho fat from tho dripping-tin, keeping hack any brown gravy there may be. Add half a teacup?ul of boiling water- to this gravy, pour it into a saucepan,, and skim off the fat. Boil it, and add a little salt to it. Put the haunch on1 a very hot dish, and pour tho boiling' gravy through a strainer round it. Pin a frill of white impel- round tho knuckle- bone. Send venison gravy to table,' and let rod currant jelly he served separately ; some should he heated, and- some cold. French beans plainly boiled are a suitable accompaniment' to haunch of venison. Venison fat freezes so quickly that especial care should bo taken that the plates are very hot; indeed, hot water plates, as-' well as a hot water dish, ought to be used. Timo to roast the venison, from four to five hours, or about thirteen minutes to tho pound when the haunch ; is weighed with the paste on. Doo venison will be done half an hour before buck venison. Venison is pre- ferred underdone rather than over- done. Probable cost, very uncertain. Some cooks omit the flour and water paste ; then the haunch will not • need to bo down so long. This is condemned by many cooks, but some contend that in some respects tho meat is improved by the omission.VENISON. 351 Haunch., to Carve.—This is not a very difficult task. In carving a haunch of venison, first cut it across down to the bone in the line, a n; then turn the dish with the knuckle farthest from you, put in the point of the knife* and cut down as deep as you can. in the direction shown by the dotted lines, A to c; you may take out as many slices as you please on the right and left. The knife should slope in making the first cut, and then the whole of the gravy will be received in the well. It is held by genuine, epicures that some parts of the haunch are better flavoured than others, but it is doubtful whether ordinary palates will detect any difference. Slices of venison should not be cut thick, and plenty of gravy should be given with them. The fat is very apt to get cool soon, and become hard and disagreeable to the palate. For this reason, very quick carving is absolutely necessary for this joint. The long slices contain most fat at the loin end. The outside knots of brown fat are much esteemed by Fio. 90.—Hacsch of Venison, to Carve. most people. It should be remem- bered in carving, that to please one’s guests in the matter of serving the various parts of a joint, is as much the duty of the carver as it is to cut the meat to the best advantage ; and this may be done without disfiguring the joint, by the exercise of forethought in requesting those present to express their preference. Heck, to Boast.—Let it bo separated from the shoulder when quite stiff, then shorten the rib-bones, out do not cut through the fat. Baw off the ehino-bone, and remove the small bones that cover the fillet part of the neck. The piece of fat from which the bones are taken should be rolled over the ribs. Prepare the neck as already directed for other joints, and serve in the same way, and with the same accompaniments. Very often the flour and water paste is omitted in this case, and plenty of greased paper only is used. Time, about twelve or thirteen minutes per pound. This is an excellent joint for a small party. To carve it, proceed as for a saddle (this should always be cut saddle fashion), cuts being made in the' direction of a to b, and c to d ; from the latter part fat portions are ob- tained. Some from each part should be served to all present. Bed Deer.—This should be cooked in every respect like ordinary venison, as in other recipes. It re- quires to be well hung. Some regard it as very delicious, others as coarse and ill-flavoured. But whatever may be the opinion of sportsmen, it is, on the whole, les3 in favour than well-fed venison of the usual kind. Boebuck.— The roebuck, or" common roe, is of. a reddish-brown colour, and, though small, is elegant in shape, and nimble. Plainly dressed, it is not worth much, but when marinaded, larded, or jugged, it is, rery good. The flesh has been com- pared in flavour to mutton. . Boebuck, Haunch of, Mar- inaded. — Itequirod : meat, suuco arid mirinado, ns below. Cost, uncer- tain. Proparo a marinade sufficientlyUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 352 deep to cover the surface of the haunch, the ingredients being in the following proportions :—With a pint of vinegar put a quart of water, two onions finely minced, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns, a little salt, a sliced car- rot, three or four sticks of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all together for half anhour,strain, and put into a pan large enough to hold the roebuck. Put the haunch in the marinade for a week. Take it up, spit, and roast before a clear fire, being careful to baste con- stantly. Unless this is done the meat will be very dry. Take it up, brush it over with melted glaze, and serve very hot. The dish should be gar- nished with stewed prunes and fried potatoes, and a sauce, prepared as follows, should accpmpany it, a little poured over the haunch, and the rest in a tureen :—Cut an ounce of lean ham into dice, and fry it in a little butter with a small carrot, a stick of celery, and an onion, all cut small, half a teaspoonful of peppercorns, a quarter of a blade of mace, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Stir these ingredients over the fire until they are lightly browned, then add two table- spoonfuls of vinegar and one of ketchup. Let the'liquor boil, and put with it half a pint of brown sauce, a wineglass of sherry, and a teaspoon- ful of anchovy. Let the sauce boil carefully, skim off the fat, &c., strain it, and it will be ready for use. Time, about an hour and a half. Roebuck is better if larded. Roebuck, Jugged.—Required: meat, stock, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, uncertain. Cut a breast of roe- buck into small chops, fry these with three or four slices of good bacon in butter till they are lightly browned, then pour off the liquor, and mix flour with it to make a roux (see Roux). Moisten this with as much good stock as will cover the pieces of roebuck, and add four or five onions with half a dozen cloves stuck in them, three or four inches of thin lemon rind, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt; a few mush- rooms may be added if liked. Rut all into a stewpan, cover closely, that no steam may escape, and when the liquor has boiled draw the pan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently until done enough. Put the meat on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Time, about two hours. Sauces and Gravies. — On page 88 will be found three recipes for gravies. If sauce is served in addition, the gravy should be plain— i.e. the first recipe. The third, viz., sweet gravy, is, in a sense, a gravy and sauce in one; i.e. it is not necessary to serve any sauce; but some gravy of the plain kind is always desirable, as it is so often preferred, with a morsel of jelly, to any other. When sauce is wanted, any of those given in hot sauces for game or dark meats may be served : Sauce a la Calvpso is very good, either with venison or mutton. Shoulder, to Roast.—See that it is not separated from the neck until the animal is cold and stiff, or the appearance of both joints will be spoilt. When it has hung long enough, cover it before roasting with thin slices of fat mutton ; this is important. After this, cover with a greased paper, and although it is better if a flour and water paste be added (like the haunch), this may be dispensed with if the mutton fat be plentiful, and the basting very thorough. Finish off and serve as directed for haunch, but cook a shorter time. Cost, very variable. Shoulder of, to Stew.—This is a very excellent joint; it is not costly, but takes some little time. Bone the shoulder and flatten it well on a board. Season it inside and out with a savoury powder, made with a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a good pinch each of cay- enne and ground nutmeg, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon grated. Then, over the lean, put a few thin slices of vVENISON’, 353 raw mutton fat, and lay a few more in place of the blade-bone. Roll it very tightly, and tie with tape ; wrap it in a cloth, and tie the ends like a pud- ding. Cook it in stock, made from the bones, until done, then untie it, coat with glaze, and serve with a pint of gravy, thickened with brown roux, and flavoured with a small jar of currant jelly. Steaks, with Bacon.—This is an American dish. The steaks are partly cooked in a frying-pan in the usual way; a slice of bacon cut to the size, is then put on each side, and when the bacon is cooked and browned the steaks are served round a dish. In the centre a sauce is put, made like the English bread sauce, but with stock or gravy in place of milk; it receives a rather high flavouring of cayenne, mace, and cinnamon, and to each half- pint a heaping tablespoonful of any fruit jelly is added. Sometimes the jelly is omitted, and put in heaps on little plates, one to each guest. Cran- berry jelly is one of the chief favourites. Smoked venison is much liked in America; it is usually sold in canvas bags, like Westphalia hams, and keeps a long time, if for cutting into steaks for broiling, &c., it is soaked in water first. It is also boiled in the same way as ham, but is cooked in a shorter time. Venison, Breast of.—This is often made into a pasty or pudding {tee Recu-es). Or it can be stewed. It is sometimes roasted, but is con- sidered the least satisfactory joint for the purpose. In many little dishes from mutton, some breast of venison would be a considerable improve- ment; and in dishes of gamo the venison could increase the meat if the gatne ran short, in many instances without detriment to the dish. This' joint furnishes material for a first- rate dish of devilled meat, cither dry or wet. A broil made by stewing the breast in stock until nearly done, then scoring and seasoning it, and finishing it off before the fire, can be strongly recommended. A tureen of brown piquant sauce, and some grilled mushrooms put on the dish, are the only adjuncts necessary ; though the addition of jelly is a matter of taste. Cost, variable. Venison, Roast (a German recipe).—Hang the venison as long as possible ; wash and dry it, when ready to cook, and beat it well; pull off the skin, and lard the fleshy part all over with bacon cut two inches long, and a suitable width. Bake the meat if more convenient, but whether baked or roasted, baste often, using sour cream, or milk with two ounces of butter to each half-pint. Make a gravy in the pan by adding a little water to the bastings, and flavouring with salt, lemon juice, and grated rind, and a little black pepper. Spice is sometimes added. A shoulder is a good joint for the above treatment. Venison, Roast (a New York recipe).—Take any joint, according to taste and requirements, and cook it in its usual coat of paste and paper. Flour it well, mixing ground ginger and pepper with the flour, and let it be well frothed. Make a thick sauce by putting a pint of pure tomato pulp in a lined saucepan, with a teaspoonful of extract of meat, and half an ounce of chopped capers ; an ounce of black currant jelly should be put in a few minutes later, together with the same weight of brown roux. Season with salt, a pinch of white sugar and ginger, a dash of cayenno, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Send to table very hot, and pour a little plain gravy round the meat. This can be recom- mended.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 354 PORK. This, more than any meat, must be chosen with the greatest care. The pig, from its habits, is particularly liable to disease and'if killed and eaten in an unhealthy state, those who partake of it may pay dearly for the indulgence. Dairy-fed pork is best, and it is safest to buy it direct from a farm, or from a reliable dealer. Pork is in season only in cold weather, and should be rigidly avoided in summer; it is then positively dangerous. The fat should be firm, and the lean delicate in colour, and fine in the grain; the skin should be delicate. If the skin is thick, the pig was old; if clammy, it proves staleness. Kernels and discolorations in the fat prove an unhealthy condition at the time of killing. Pork cannot be kept long in the fresh state, but unless hung for a short time it will be hard. All the internal organs cannot be too fresh when eaten. We would specially waru the inexperienced against what is known in the trade as “ offal-fed pork.” It is, however, never seen in good localities, and no butcher with a reputation to maintain deals in it. It can be told by its dark colour, strong smell, and un- pleasant flavour. No meat requires more care in cooking than pork: the least portion underdone is more than unwholesome, and it should be withheld from persons of weak digestion, as well as invalids generally. A porker—i.e. a pig less than a year old—is usually divided as follows:— 1. Leg. May be boiled or roasted. A very profitable joint. 2. Loin. Includes fore-loin and hind-loin. Roasted • generally. 3. Spare-rib. Usually roasted, or cut into chops, like the loin. Fm. 92^-a^Side of 4 Belly. Boiled, either fresh or slightly salted. ,r .. ' p 5. Hand. Sometimes boiled fresh, often salted. ' 'bacon!) 10 SCC 6. Head. Boiled fresh, or cut through and salted. Also used for brawn. In addition to the above, there are the feet, which are often salted and boiled, but there are various ways of serving them ; the fry, which includes the heart, liver, sweetbread, &c.; and the chitterlings. The internal fat is melted down for lard. Recipes aie given under the respective headings. (Sec also Sucking Pig.) See the chapters Entries and Made Dishes, Cold Meat and Scraps, Sausages, &c., Pies and Puddings, and Pastry, for such pork dishes. Dishes from salted pork are given under Salted Meats,355 PORK. Boiled Pork.—Fresh pork may be boiled like other meat, and is very delicate eating. It should be small and lean, or will be found too rich. Let the water boil, and then put in the meat, with some carrots and tur- nips, an onion, and a stalk or two of celery; add a morsel of salt, and simmer all the time; skim as needed, and put in more salt near the end. A bunch of herbs, consisting of a leaf or two of sage, a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme, parsley, and marjoram, will improve the meat considerably. As to the time, it must be proportioned to the age of the meat and the thickness of the rind. A leg may take twenty to thirty minutes per pound ; a belly may want fifteen minutes or a trifle more only. Send a nice sauce to table. Celeb?, Mild Onion, Parsley, Pars- ley with Chives, Kice, and Tomato may be instanced as suitable; and Bread Sauce, although more often •served with roast pork, is very delicate -and nice; a sprinkling of sage can be added to it. Vegetables, as carrots, turnips, or parsnips, should be served freely; or a puree of split peas, or peas-pudding, is suitable. The puree is the nicer. The foot should -be taken from a leg, and the knuckle- bone garnished with a frill, if a dish removed from a very plain one is desired. Cost, from *6d. to 8d. per pound, according to the part chosen and time of year. Chine.—This is taken from the spine, between the shoulders; it is generally salted for a few days before boiling, and is frequently sent to table with boiled fowls or turkeys. There is a good deal of fat about it. If only lightly salted, it can bo put on to boil in warm water. It is sometimes kept in brine for ton days, then it must go on in cold water; it wants slow cook- ing and frequent skimming. It is sometimes roasted, after sprinkling with salt and hanging for a day or two; then, to avoid hardness, it wants very •slow cooking; the meat should bo scored lengthwise, and brushed with butter or oil, and well basted. Pow- dered sago is sprinkled on it before it is taken down, and a good gravy is poured round it. Sometimes the fat, or most of it, is removed. For a very savoury dish, a powder made by mix- ing together popper, cloves, and nut- meg, with salt, sage, parsley, and thyme, all dried and sieved, is put in after the meat is scored. In country places, chopped chives or small onions are added, and an excellent dish is the result. The chine is frequently left until cold before carving when this method is adopted; and although it may be baked, it is oftener boiled. The quantities of the various ingredients are regulated by taste, but the herbs should predominate. In a chapter on Seasonings, &c., will be found recipes that could be followed by those un- accustomed to dishes of this sort. They are more frequently met with in the country than the town. Cost, about Gd. per pound, but variable. Chops, or Cutlets.—Speaking generally, it will be found that plainly cooked chops and cutlets of pork are best liked, though rich sauces and gTavies are often served with them. For any but small meat, frying should be avoided ; broiling or grilling is the better. The meat may be floured, and brushed with liquid fat; or coated with crumbs; or with egg and crumbs; or simply seasoned with pepper. At least twenty minutes must be allowed for a chop of medium thickness; tho kidney end of the loin is most liked. The best end of the neck must be chosen for cutlets. When any dressed variety is required, many recipes given under veal and mutton (see also Made Dishes) may bo followed with certainty of success. Very slight addi- tions to the seasonings, &c., will in somo cases bo necessary, and to soino of the gravies a dush of French mustard will give the necessary piquancy. Fat, coarse pork, is nover good as a joint; but in tho form of a cutlet or chop it is simply detestable. The356 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. quality of the meat is the first neces- sity, and a clean, well-heated gridiron is the next; the same may he said of the frying-pan or broiler. The toaster shown on page 325 can b6 used, and very successfully; the meat must be put a fair distance from the fire after a minute on each side, then when nearly done, if not brown enough, it must be put nearer. Pork chops are improved in appearance by glazing. Cost, from 7d. to 9d. per pound. Of sauces suitable for serving, Chut- ney, Shown Sauce, Partake, Celery, Onion, Apple, and others mentioned under Roast Pork, may be instanced ; and it may be taken for granted that fruit in any form—apples, raisins, tomatoes, and sweet pickles by way of oxamplo—not only add to the goodness of the dish, so far as the palate is con- cerned, but increase its wholesomeness. There is no doubt that pork and apple sauce are a scientific, though homely, combination of ingredients. Chops, with Apples and Raisins.—Required : two pounds of loin chops, the kidney end, apples and raisins as below. Cost, about 2s. Trim the chops free from some of the fat, sprinkle them with a pinch each of black pepper, ground ginger, cayenne, and curry powder. Rub the bottom of a frying-pan with a clove of garlic, melt in it some pork dripping, and fry the meat a good brown ; flour it a little first, and see that it is well done. Have ready a tureen of apple sauce. Mix in four ounces of sultana raisins, first stewed in a little gravy to cover them ; then add a pinch of curry powder. Dish the meat on a bed of spinach, and serve the sauce separately. Another way to serve the above is to put some fried apples round the dish; or some apple sauce may he used; and to serve the raisins sepa- rately in a little thickened gravy. It has been said, with truth, that a curried chop is a chop spoiled; hut chops to which just a seasoning of curry is given, as above, are very agreeable eating. Collops.—Required : a pound of pork, fat and lean together, two ounces of lean ham or bacon, four ounces of bread-crumbs, and some salt, pepper, and allspice; a pinch only of the latter, with a morsel of grated nutmeg, some raw eggs, and sweet herbs. Cost, about Is. exclusive of sauce. Mince the meat, and bacon or ham, add the crumbs and seasoning, and a raw egg; the yolk of a second may be needed; the mass should be soft enough to shape easily. Then make it into little cakes, the size of a florin; dip them in beaten white of egg, and coat with more crumbs. Put them in a saute pan with a little pork dripping, turn them about until well cooked, hut only lightly browned. Serve with gravy, or a sharp sauce, or with apples or tomatoes fried. Or they may be put in boiling stock for a few minutes; they should then he only dipped in the white of eggs, no crumbs, then drained, and put in a pan on a bed of white onion sauce; another layer of sauce must be spread over them, and the pan kept hot by setting it in a tin of boiling water. They will be done in ten minutes, if they have had ten minutes’ boiling. Curried Pork.—This dish needs care, or it will be too rich to be pleasant. We recommend lean pork, and young; if bacon meat is used in- stead of that fr om a porker, the greater part of the fat should be cut away. For a pound of meat, make a pint of sauce [see Curry Sauce), and first par- boil tho meat, or fry it a little in a separate vessel; the latter is the more savoury. Then put it in the sauce to finish tho cooking, letting it stew softly. A morsel of mustard, French is nicer, will improve this curry, and the proportions of apples and onions may be slightly increased; the richness of the dish wiil be the better counter- acted. Time to cook the pork in the sauce, about an hour. It must be shaken from time to time, and a little liquid, water or stock, put in as re-357 PORK. quired. The stock is preferably made from the water from boiled fresh meat or poultry; a strip of lean ham should be simmered in it to give flavour. The point is, freedom from grease and ex- cessive richness. In addition to boiled rice, fried apples may be put about the dish. The rice can also be sprinkled with currants, prepared as for sucking- pig, or little piles of stewed sultanas will do instead. Cost, varying with the adjuncts. Cutlets, with Moulded Pota- toes.—Take the cutlets from the neck of nice lean pork. Trim them neatly, and sprinkle with pepper, and dip in warm butter; broil them for ten minutes, turning as usual; the heat must be gradual after the first minute or two. Then put them in butter again, and coat with bread-crumbs that have been browned in the oven; put them on firmly, and finish the cooking, giving ten minutes or longer, according to thickness. Dish them on a very hot dish, with moulded potatoes (browned) in the centre (see Vegetables), and pour round any nice sauce of the piquant kind, or chutney ; or any other can be substituted. A puree of onions or celery can be used in place of potatoes, or both vegetables may be served. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Cutlets, with Onions.—Re- quired : Some cutlets as above; a pinch of cayenne and mixed herbs Bhouhl be mixed with the crumbs, and after the partial cooking by grilling or broiling, the meat may be fried after crumbing, or finished off in a moderate oven. It should be nicely browned, and well done. Then put a ring of fried bread in the middle of the dish, spread it thickly with fried onions, and fill the centre with apple sauce, mixed with a small quantity of thick brown sauce. Dish the cutlets round the bread, and pour a little more apple sauce round the base. Cost, about 9d. per pouqd.. Faggots.—Few people make these at home in towns where they are readily obtained at pork - butchers’. There are many ways of preparing them; the cheapest varieties consist for the most part of bread and herbs, with a small proportion of liver and pork. The following is a good recipe: Required : a pound and a half of pig’s liver, half a pound of fat pork, a tea- spoonful each of sage, parsley, and thyme, powdered, a good-sized onion, half a pint of bread-crumbs, two eggs, a teaspoonful of pepper, and double the quantity of salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a pig’s caul. Cost, about Is. 6d. The meat must be very finely minced, and mixed with the seasoning, then put in a jar or basin, and steamed in a saucepan, with boiling water half way round it, for an hour. It must then be left to cool before mixing with the crumbs and eggs. After beating well, make the mass into balls, and flatten a little; wrap them singly in pieces of the caul, and bake gently to a pale brown, about half an hour; or the pig’s caul can be omitted, and tho faggots baked with a little gravy in the tin. The onion should be scalded and chopped if a mild flavour is liked ; otherwise it can be put in raw, and in rather larger pieces. A sheep’s or calf’s liver can be used if preferred, and a kidney may be added with advantage. Feet, Boiled.—Scald and scrape the feet of a fully - grown porker, and carefully remove the covering of the toes. Split them in halves, lengthways, and bind them securely with tape in their original position. Put them into a stewpan, with a quart of hot stock or water, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, two onions, two carrots, a stick of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. Let them simmer gontly until they are tender. Drain them, and draw out tho largo bones. After tho feet have been boiled ns above directed, they may be either served hot.358 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. with peas pudding and green vege- tables, or oaten cold with sharp sauce. If not to he eaten hot, leave them in the liquor until cold. The vegetables, cut up, with some thickening, as peas, beans, or lentils, will bo all that is nocessary to convert the liquor into good soup, after the addition of more water or stock. Cost, from Id. to 2d. each. Feet and Ears.—Wash them, and boil in the above way, or in milk and water until tondor. Use a brush in cloansing them. Draw the bones from the feet, and cut the cars in strips, lto-heat them in any nice, plain sauce, as usually served with pork ; or heat the oars only, then dip tho foot in liquid butter or drip- ping, and then in crumbs, and broil them. Place thorn on the dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. For frieaseed feet and ears, re-heat them in white sauce, rich or plain as required. Cost varying with the sauce, &c. Fry.—See that it is fresh, and very clean. The recipe given for Lamb’s Fry may he followed. The heart can ho cooked separately if liked, so may the sweetbread; tho liver and fat will then make a tasty dish. A common way of cooking fry is to put it in. a baking-tin, with the fat spread over it; but it is much nicer if first cooked for a short time in stock, then finished off in the oven; the stock from the stewing being used to make the gravy in the pan. Time, about two hours. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Fry witli Veal Stuffing.— ihis is a change from ordinary dishes of fry. Cut up all the meat, and put in a stew-jar; see recipes for Gravies for Stews and Hashes; make enough gravy to cover the meat, and cook it in a gentle oven. Mean- while, make somo small balls of veal or plain herb forcemeat, about a dozen for two pounds of fry ; fry them a little to brown them, and put them into the gravy, or into a separato vessel, to simmer for an hour before serving. Place them on the dish round the meat. Time for the fry, two hours or more. A spoonful of brown vinogar and a morsel of mustard should be stirred in at tho commencement. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Head, Boiled.—If fresh, boil in the way directed for pork. A pickled head needs different treatment; see Brawn, p. 375. Cost, uncertain ; from 4d. to fid. per lb. is the average. Head, Pressed (a German dish). —Required: head, feet, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Cut a head through, and boil it with the feet, some sage and onions, and water to cover. Add cloves and other spices. When the bones slip out, take up the hoad, and cut away the meat, leaving tho skin side intact. Cut up the meat, with that of the feet; season it, add the minced tongue, then boil tho gravy down to a jelly; mix some with the meat when nearly cold, and then lay some on each half of the skin of the hoad laid on a dish, covered with a wet cloth. Draw the two parts together, and fold the cloth over. Then pin or sew it very firmly. Put it in a pie-dish to just hold it, with a dish and some weights on the top. Serve in slices iaith salad and pickles when cold. This is considered^Rer if a little smoked ham or tongue be mixed with the rest; or some tongue which has been salted only will answer. (See recipes for Salted Meats.) If a pickled head is preferred for this, put the fresh head into pickle for four or five days, or more. Head, Hoast. -Take up a fresh pig's head which has been already boiled until it is sufficiently tender to take out the bones. Shape it neatly, and skewer it firmly. Sprinkle over it some sago leaves, finely powdered, and a little pepper and salt, and put it in a tin before the fire. Baste it well whilst it is roasting. Serve on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured over it, and send apple sauce to359 PORK. table in a tureen. Time to roast, hall an hour. This is a very rich dish. Cost, as above. Head, Scrappled (an American dish). — Required : head, seasoning, and com meal, as below. Scald and clean a pig’s head, and remove the hair, the snout, the ears, and the brain. Put it on the fire in four quarts of water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim carefully, season the liquid rather highly with salt and cayenne, and add half a dozen sage leaves, chopped small. Let the head simmer gently for two hour's, or more if large, then bone it, and mince the flesh finely, and put it hack into the liquid. Stir in as much sifted com meal as will thicken the liquid, and simmer two hours longer, until it is of the consistency of thick porridge. Pour it into deep jars, and set in a cool place. When scrapple of pig’s head is to be eaten, cut it into slices, and fry these in hot fat for breakfast. This is a very peculiar dish; the taste is decidedly an acquired one. Semolina or hominy can be used if the meal is not easily procured. We may add that while hot, after thickening, it is not to be despised, and many would prefer it in that form to the one given in the recipe. Cost, as above. Head, Stuffed (a German dish). —Required : head, forcemeat, vege- tables, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Take a fresh head, bone it, strew salt and pepper over; make a forcemeat of sage and onions, with a small proportion of minced bacon and liver; season it well, and bind it with raw eggs. Spread this on the head, then put strips of pickled pork, and tho pig’s tongue, sliced, with lean ham in strips, and some pickled gherkins. Put in more forcemeat if there is room; put the halves together, and sew them tightly, not forgetting tho snout. Cover with a bladder, or a cloth, and cook in a saucepan with the bones, and a calf's foot, plenty of spices and vege- tables, a bunch of herbs, and hot water to cover. The foot should bo put in the water when cold, then brought to tho boil before tho head goeB in. A gill of vinegar should be put with the rost, and the boiling kept up for three to four hours. When nearly cold, take up the head, draw the threads out, and glaze it well. Cut a slice from the neck end, to show its marbled contents, and garnish according to taste and requirements. It may bo made quite elaborate, and served amongst galantines, turkeys, and similar viands. It will be liked better, we think, if the onions be omitted, and some pork sausage-meat substituted. The other ingredients may be as given above. • Hearts may be cooked either stuffed or plain, as directed for the hearts of sheep and calves. Some small forcemeat balls, or sausages, may be put on the dish when they are not stuffed. Kidneys.—Pig’s kidneys maybe broiled, fried, or stewed, in the same way as mutton kidneys. Cut two lengthwise, into slices a quarter of an inch thick, season with salt and cayenne, and sprinkle over them a dessertspoonful of finely-powdered herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley, and one-third thyme. Fry them for five or six minutes in one ounco of hot butter or dripping, and when nicely browned, stir a dessertspoonful of flour in amongst them, and add, very gradually, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a tablespoonful of ketchup. When on the point of boiling, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, let the sauce remain on tho fire for one minute, and pour it boiling over tho kidneys. Garnish with toasted sippets. Time, a quarter of an hour. Prob- able cost, Is. Kidneys, Broiled. Split the kidneys lengthwiso from the rounded part, without separating them en- tirely. Peel off tho skin, and pass a wooden or metal skewer through them to keep them flat. Sprinkle a little popper and powdered sage over them, oil them .slightly, and broil360 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them before a clear fire, the hollow side first, so that the gravy may be kept in when they are turned. Serve on a hot dish, either with or without mattre d’hotel sauce in a tureen. Time to broil, from ten to fifteen minutes. They should be well done, but not overdone. Kidneys, Stewed, in any plain stock or gravy, are very ten- der, and more digestible than when fried. They are particularly good when cooked in plain tomato juice; that from canned tomatoes answers. When nearly done, it should be thickened with brown roux, and • sea- soned with salt, pepper, and a little mustard. An onion or shalot can be added if liked, and some chopped sage or parsley. Cost, about 8d. per pound. They are sometimes sold at 3d. or 4d. each, according to size. Lard.—See chapter on Cooking Processes. Leg, Boned.—When lots of stuff- ing is liked, this will be the most satisfactory way of cooking the leg. The fillet-bone only need be taken out, the knuckle being left. The skin can be scored as usual. A nice sage and onion stuffing will do, but if it be mixed with half its bulk of pork sausage moat, the dish will be very superior, particularly when cold. After the stuffing is all in, it must be covered as well as possible, the flesh being drawn up round and over, then fastened with needle and thread, or skewers, and bound with wide tape. A well-greased paper should be fas- tened all ovor the log if for roasting or baking. If for boiling, tie it in a clean cloth, first putting a paper over the stuffed end. However cooked, extra time must be given; quite five minutes per pound longer than if the bone were left in. Serve with the usual accompaniments. Leg, Roasted.—A leg of eight pounds will take from three to three and a half hours. The skin should be scored across, a quarter of an inch apart, and brushed with a little oil; this will make the crackling crisp and brown, and prevent its blistering. Pork should not bo put so near the fire at first as beef or mutton; tho cooking has to be slower all through. If scored in cubes or diamonds, instead of straight lines, the meat will cook in rather less time, and the crackling be nicer. Fre- quent basting is needed. For sauces, sec Loin, Boasted. If stuffed, sage and onion stuffing is generally pre- ferred, but veal stuffing, with a little sage added, is very good, and liked by many. The knuckle is tho part stuffed, the skin being raised, and the stuffing passed underneath; a greased paper, or piece of thick muslin should be tied over to prevent its escape, and removed a little time before dishing. If plenty of stuffing is liked, little balls or cakes should be made, and cooked separately. (See Forcemeats.) Some- times, instead of stuffing the meat, onion sauce, flavoured with sage, is served with it. Cost, Cd. to 8d. per pound. Leg, Roasted (a superior recipe). —Instead of putting the stuffing under the skin of the knuckle, make some slits in the knuckle, by taking off some of the skin in a piece, and cutting deep into the flesh. Fill these incisions with the stuffing, then replace the skin, and sew it on. Tie some greased paper over, and roast as usual. Be- serve some of the stuffing (sage and onion), and mix a small proportion of bread-crumbs with it, to make it rather firmer than usual. Form it into little cakes, and steam these in a largo potato steamer. They should be laid in a tin and covered. When done, brown them before the fire, or in the oven, and serve them round the leg. Have ready also a tureen of onion sauce, made by mixing somo fried onions with a little brown sauce, and adding a sprinkling of sage, salt and pepper. Note.—Tho mixture for tho little cakes should be bound with beaten egg. If the onions bo first parboiledPORK. 361 or fried—and in the latter form they are far more savoury—the steaming can be dispensed with, and the cakes browned only in a greased tin in the oven. A leg of pork, roasted without stuffing, requires a very nice sauce. Robert, Piquant, a good Tomato, Digestive, Brown Sauce flavoured with hot pickles, and many others, are suitable. Chutney Sauce is very good, and a reference to the chapter on Hot Sauces will suggest others, little known, but quite as suitable as the above-named. Cost, varying with the sauce. Liver, Baked in a Caul.— Required : liver, seasoning, and force- meat. Cost, about 6d. per pound. Wash and soak the liver until it is quite free from blood. Divide it into halves, horizontally, without separating the two pieces, and lay it upon a dish. Sprinkle pepper and salt on it, pour over it two ounces of clarified butter, and let it lie for twenty minutes. Spread evenly over it a layer of forcemeat, a quarter of an inch in thickness, close the liver, and wrap it in some pig’s caul, or “leaf,” which has been soaked in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth. Put the roll in a deep dish, with a slice of fat bacon under and over it, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is done enough take it out of its covering, and serve on a hot dish, with the gravy which has flowed from it, mixed with a little lemon juice. A plain forcemeat, veal, with or without ham, herb stuffing, or sage and onions, may be used. For a much better dish, pour some piquant sauce over the liver. Liver, with. Apples and Vegetables.—This is a medley, but popular amongst pork - eaters wherever introduced. Grease a deep pie-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of sliced liver, sliced potatoes and onions, and quartered apples. Have onions top and bottom, and over each layer put salt and pepper, with a little sage and nutmeg. Over tho apples sprinkle a morsel of ginger and lemon rind, both grated. Fill up with warm water, or meat liquor; cover, and cook in a vory slow oven for two hours or more. Thicken the gravy with a spoonful of browned flour, and add a little mustard and vinegar. Cost, about 10d., supposing a pound each of liver, onions, and potatoes, and half a pound of apples to be used; but the proportions may be altered to suit the palate. To many, fewer onions and double the weight of potatoes would be more acceptable. Loin, Roasted.—Score the meat, and brush it with sweet oil. Follow the directions given for a leg of pork. Sometimes apples and onions are baked and served with the meat, and potatoes parboiled and browned (see Browned Potatoes), are a suitable addition. The loin always needs long, slow cooking, and half an hour to each pound is about the time to allow for it; it must be thoroughly basted, and wants plenty of good gravy in addition to apple sauce or baked apples. Apple and Curry Sauce may be served in- stead, and tomato sauce is also suitable. The kidney end is the nicer, and is generally (though not always) a little the dearer, but it must be very fresh, as all meat near the kidney of any animal becomes tainted very quickly, especially in damp weather. The usual way of carving this is in chops, like a loin of mutton ; but it may bo carved saddle fashion, as directed for mutton on page 334, then it needs no jointing before cooking. Cost, 8d. per pound on an average. Pork, Stewed with Vege- tables (German recipe).—Required: meat, vegetables, &c. Cost, about 2s. Cut the heart of a large savoy into quarters. Put these into a large iron stewpan with half a dozen carrots cut into lengths, three turnips halved, eight moderate-sized whole potatoes, and two pounds of fresh pork with more lean than fat in it. Season with pepper and salt, pour over them a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, covor thoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 3G2. saucepan closely, and let them stew as gently as possible until done enough. Serve the pork on a hot dish with the vegetables neatly arranged round it. Pour part of the gravy over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to stew, from two and a half to three hours. Pork, Stewed with Vege- tables and Fruit.—Bequired : a couple of pounds of lean pork, some vegetables and fruit as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Cut the meat up, as if for hari- cot mutton; fry it brown, add a good supply of sliced carrots, turnips, onions and celery, a pint, say, in all; cover with warm water, and take the fat off: briqg to boiling point, put in * some chopped sage and popper, and cook gently for an hour; then add brown flour and a little store sauce, a spoonful of tomato chutney, and a little salt. Boil up, and give another half hour, or more. Havo ready a small plate of currants, prepared as for sucking-pig, and when the meat is dished, sprinkle them over it. Put some sweet pickles or spiced fruit in a glass dish (sec Pickles), and send green vegetables of some kind to table; sprouts or cabbage, if in good con- dition. Another way.—Boil' some carrots and turnips separately, and use for garnishing; then only onions and celory need be put in with the meat. Fork, with Grilled Toma- toes.—Bequired: half a pound of tomatoes, cut in slices for grilling; half a pint of plain tomato puree, two pounds of pork, and some gravy and potatoes. Cost, about 2s. 9d. For a nice little roast this is excel- lent ; tho cost is small, and the trouble not greater than is required in the preparation of stuffing, which is here dispensed with. Any piece of meat may be chosen, from young, lean pork. The tomatoes should be seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar; then dipped in a mixture of mustard (half of it should be French) and clari- fied butter, next coated with bread- crumbs, and grilled or broiled. A few minutes will cook them. Put the puree on a hot dish, place tho pork on it, with the tomatoes and some browned potatoes round it. Serve somo hot gravy in a boat. Becipes for tomato puree, both plain and rich, are given under Vegetables. Pork, with Liver.—Bequired : two pounds of pork, belly, small, slightly salted, two pounds of pig’s liver, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 9d. Slice the liver, not thinner than half an inch; boil the pork in the usual way, then cut it in slices. Put tho livor into a pint of gravy (see Gravy for Stews or Hashes) ; add a grated carrot and a good-sized onion, sliced, and fried brown, with a sprink- ling of sage and pepper. Cook gently for an hour and a half, then thicken with browned flour, not roux, it would be too rich ; add the sliced pork, and some more gravy to cover the whole ; boil up, and serve with a puree of split peas round the dish. Another way.—Spread the puree of peas on a dish, and put the piece of pork, whole, upon it. Arrange the liver and gravy round, with some fried onions if liked. For a more delicate dish use thyme and parsley in place of sage. Lentils or haricots can take the place of peas, where the latter disagree. The exact time depends upon the liver. If from young pork, it is done in less time, but many prefer the liver of a good sized, farm-fed, bacon pig. Pork, with Pickles and Raisins,—Cook some pork chops as directed for Chops, with Apples and Baisins (p. 356). Put a heaping table-, spoonful of piccalilli in asaucepap^with the same measure of hot chutney.; dilute with gravy made in the pan (sec Gravy for Boast Pork) , and boil up; then put in some raisins stewed as before, so as to make a rather thick mixture. Dish the pork on a bed of green vegetable,POKK. 363 any kind in season: the dried green peas puree given in a later chapter is very suitable. Serve the pickles, &c., separately, and as hot as possible. The compound is an agreeable com- bination of sweet and sour, and is a gravy and sauce in one. Cost, about 6d. each, with adjuncts. Saddle, Boasted.—Havo a saddle of pork cut in the same way as a saddle of mutton. As pork is not often cut up in this way, it will be necessary to order it beforehand. Take off the skin, trim the joint neatly, and cover the fat with buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liber- ally. Half an hour before it is taken up, remove the paper, dredge the meat lightly with flour, and baste until it is brightly browned. Send brown gravy and a sharp sauce to table. If liked, the skin can be left on, and it will then require to be scored lengthwise, the same way in which the saddle is carved. This is the handsomest joint of pork that can be served. Time, without the skin, twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound. With the skin, nearly thirty minutes. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Shoulder, marinaded (a German recipe).—Lay a shoulder of pork in a deep earthen pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar, and put with it a dessertspoonful of salt, a teaspoon- ful of bruised peppercorns, half a lemon, two onions sliced, a teaspoonful of juniper berries, half a dozen cloves, and a bay leaf. Let the pork lie in this pickle for five days, and turn and rub it every day. Take it up, drain it, cover it with oiled paper, and roast before a clear fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally with the strained pickle. For sauce, mix a quarter of a pint of the pickle with a quarter of a pint of cold water; add brown thickening, and a little.pepper and salt if required. Serve in a tureen. A piquant sauce will be very nice with the above dish, and it is nicer when basted in the usual way at tho close, and well-browned and frothed. Cost, fid. to 8d. per pound. Spare-rib, Boasted.—A spare rib of pork usually weighs about eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to three hours to roast—not according to weight, but the thickness of the meat, which varies very much Lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A bald- rib of eight pounds’ weight (so called because almost all the meat is pared off), with a steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quarter—there is so little meat on a bald-rib that if you have a large, fierce fire it will be burnt beforo it is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack the ribs across as you do ribs of lamb. When you put it down to roast, dust on some flour, and baste with a little butter. Fifteen minutes before the meat is done baste it with butter, then dust powdered sago or sprinkle with duck-stuffing. Some people carve a spare-rib by cutting out in slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When this meat is cut away the bones may be easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet picking. Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good mustard, are indispensable. Cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Spare-rib or bald-rib is often salted for a day or two; the salt must be wiped off before roasting, and longer time given for the cooking. When very thin, this mode is not desirable. Sucking Pig.—This is con- sidered to be perfect when from three to four weeks old. It should bo cooked as soon as possible after kill- ing ; every hour it is kept it deterio- rates in quality. Scraps of stale, durk- coloured sucking-pig, sometimes seen hanging in butchers’ shops, should not be purchased. The flesh is very rich, and in many cases hard to digest. It should, therefore, be avoided by those who cannot indulge in pork of older growth. Cold weather is the time to eat sucking-pig. The price varies very much, even in the different dis- tricts of one town; whilo in rural districts, tho Beason and the demand have much to do with it. The average mny be set down at 6s., to 8s. or 9s.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 364 Sucking Pig, to Scald.—A sucking-pig is generally sent from the butcher’s ready for the spit, but for the benefit of those who find it neces- sary to prepare it themselves, the fol- lowing directions are given :—Put the pig into cold water directly after it is killed, and let it remain for five minutes, then take it up, and hold it by the head in a large pan of boiling water for two minutes. Lay it on a table, and rub the hairs off with a coarse cloth. If they do not come off easily, put the pig in the water another minute. When quite clean, make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails, leaving the kidneys untouched. Cut off the feet at the first joint, and leave a small portion of skin to fold neatly over the end. Clean the nostrils and cars thoroughly, wash the pig in two or three waters, and dry it inside and out, with a cloth, then wrap it in a damp cloth until it can be cooked. The feet, the heart, and the liver of a sucking-pig arc generally served separately. Sucking Pig, to Carve.—A sucking-pig is usually sent to table in two halves, back to back on tho dish; a part of the head, and one oar, being placed at each end. The carver se- parates the shoulder, then tho leg, from each half. These joints are cut in the ordinary way, and tho ribs are cut straight down. As in carving generallj', the various tastes of those present should be ascertained; for while the pig is altogether very deli- cious, most people have a decided preference for some particular part of it. Tho shoulders are often left un- touched. They are excellent when re-heated by grilling or broiling. They may be whole, or cut up. In either case, season them, dip into melted butter, then into fine crumbs. If whole, see that it is heated through without becoming too brown ; frequent turning, and a sprinkling of butter now and then are necessary. 8erve any sharp sauce with this dish. Tomato sauce is nice, and grilled tomatoes are excellent, with a nice seasoning of French mustard, &c. (Sec Fork, with Grilled Tomatoes.) Sucking Pig, Baked.—With regard to roasting this animal, most culinary authorities agree that it re- quires almost constant attention ; the time and trouble are by no means in- considerable to say the least, and we suggest the following method of bak- ing, as almost equal in its results, and well calculated to economise fuel and time. Prepare the pig just as for roasting, and wrap it entirely in a few folds of kitchen paper, thoroughly soaked in butter, or pure salad oil. Moderate tho heat after a short time, and baste as often as possible—i.e. do not let the papers get dry. Before dishing, take off tho papers, and let the pig crisp and dry before the fire. Some cream may be rubbed over ten minutes before dishing; buttermilk can be used instead ; or the white of an egg. If the latter, mind it does not scorch. Sucking Pig, Baked (a German recipe).—In preparing the pig for the spit, the heart, lights, and liver are minced; the latter raw, the former par- boiled. They are then mixed with bread-crumbs, eggs, and butter, salt and pepper, and various herbs and spices; sage, with basil, and thyme ; nutmeg, with cinnamon or allspice ; then a few mild onions are cooked in butter, and added. The pig is filled and sewn up, and put on a meat-stand in a baking- tin, the legs bent under the breast. A gravy made in the pan is served with it. If baked without stuffing, the inside is sometimes seasoned with marjoram and carraway seeds, with a good pro- portion of pepper. We think that the ground spice is nicer, and will be more likely to be acceptable than the whole carraway seeds. Sucking Pig’s Pettitoes. This is tho namo given to the feet. They should be well cleaned, and put into veal stock to cover, with the365 PORK. heart and liver, a morsel of bacon, and a few white peppercorns. In half an hour take out Idle heart and liver, and mince them; boil the feet longer, nearly an hour altogether. When done, put the mince, first seasoned with herbs, back in the pan; add a little roux, or fiour and cream, and give a little more simmering. Put the mince on a dish, with the split feet on the top, and some sippets round it, with a slice or two of lemon. Cost, uncertain. Sucking Pig, Roast.—Wipe the pig thoroughly, stuff it, and sew up the slit securely with cotton. Truss it like a hare, with the fore-legs skewered back and the hind-legs drawn forward. Rub it over with clarified butter, or fresh salad-oil, and put it down, not too near, before a clear, brisk fire. Baste constantly, or the crackling will be blistered and burnt, instead of crisp and brown. As the middle part requires less roasting than the ends, it is usual, when the pig is half done, to hang a flat iron from the spit in such a position that it will shade the heat of the fire from the middle. It is well to tie some butter in a piece of muslin, and rub the pig over with this two or three times whilst it is roasting. When it is done enough, cut off the head before the pig is taken from the fire, take out the brains, and chop them up quickly with the stuffing; add the gravy which has dropped from the pig, and a little more stock. To dish it, cut the pig open, and lay the sides back to back, length- wise upon the dish, with one-half of the head at each end and the ears at the sides. If preferred, the brains may be stirred into melted butter instead of gravy. Time to roast, according to size; a three weeks’ old pig, two hours. If liked, leave the brains in the head, or instead of mixing them Jn gravy, put them under the head on fho dish. Instead of following the above mode, the pig may be wrapped in paper, as for baking. If not the wholo pig, the middle is best thus treated, to avoid over-cooking and dryness, and to ensure a nice, even, brown colour. Sucking Pig, Sauces for.— Bread, Aitlk, Brown, Currant,Rice, Chestnut, Tomato, Piquant,and many others may be served with this. [See recipes.) Due regard should be had to the kind of stuffing used. If it is of the ordinary sage and onion type, or if pork farce be used, bread, or apple, or brown sauce may be served. With chestnut stuffing, chestnut sauce is most suitable. A piquant sauce com- mends itself in the event of the pig being cooked minus any stuffing. It is usual, when a good number are present at table, to serve two sauces, and if liked, some stuffing may be put in a separate tureen, that those who like may partake of it. Currants may always be handed round: they are more digestible if soaked for some time, and cooked in stock, then drained, and diied on a plate in the oven; but they are served minus coolring very often. If currant sauce is preferred, the fruit must be most carefully washed, then simmered in brown sauce; or the cur- rants can bo cooked in veal stock, then mixed in good melted butter; or the fruit and the liquor it is stewed in may be used for making bread sauce, in place of milk. In this case, there should bo about two ounces of currants to half a pint of stock, with bread to make it the right consistency. (See also Gravy for Sucking Pig.) Slicking Pig, Stuffing for.— These will l>e found in the chapter on forcemeats, &c., but we give one here which is but little known, and is, at the same time, one of the most whole- some. Steam some rice until tender; to each quarter pound add half the weight of ham or bacon, finely minced, a teaspoonful of chopped sage, thyme, and parsley mixed, a little salt and pepper, and an ounce of chopped sul- tana raisins. When this is used, some apple sauco should be served, ulso some nice gravy. For a richer force- meat of the kiud, a beaten egg or twoUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 366 may bo added ; also an ounce of butter to half a pound of rice; or a larger portion of bacon can be used. The same forcemeat is very nice for young pork, being very delicate eating. Wild Boar Ham. —Take a ham that has hung for ten days or more, singe off the bristles, wash the ham in lukewarm water, and saw off the bone two inches below the knuckle. Put it in a marinade made of equal parts of vinegar and water, to which has been added a tumblerful of light wine, a bunch of sage, and a little salt and cayenne. Let it remain for eight days ; drain it, and wipe it dry. Cover with paper that has been soaked in oil, put it down before a clear fire, and baste with the marinade every quarter of an hour. When done enough, take off the paper, and re- move the rind. Brush the ham over with liquid glaze, nnd put it in the oven for a short time, or, if preferred, instead of glazing it, cover with bread- raspings. Put a paper frill round the knuckle, place the ham on a dish, and send venison sauce, or sauce made of the marinade boiled with a little good gravy and strained, to table in a boat. If more convenient, the rind may be removed from the ham at first, and then it need lie in the marinade three days only. Wild-boar hams are very good either when dressed fresh or after they have been cured and smoked. Time to roast the ham, about three hours. Probable cost, uncertain. Wild Boar, Haunch of, with Cherry Sauce.—The following recipe is given by M. Dubois in his “Cosmopolitan Cookery:”—“Get a quarter of young wild boar, fresh and without rind; take out the thigh- bone, and saw off the thin end; salt, put it in a kitchen basin, pour over a quart of cold cooked “ marinade ” stock, let it macerate for two or three days, drain, wipe it on a cloth, and put it into a deep roasting-pan with lard. Cover it with greased paper, roast it in the oven for three quarters of an hour, basting often with the fat; then add a few spoonfuls of its marinade, and cook half an hour longer, basting with its own stock. When done withdraw the roasting-pan from the oven, drain the quarter, and spread on its surface a thick layer of black bread-crumbs rasped, dried, pounded, sifted, and mixed up with a little sugar and cinnamon, then moist- ened with red wine, but only just enough to give it a little consistence. Sprinkle over the layer some dry bread-crumbs, baste with the fat of the roasting-pan, into which put the quarter back, and keep it at the entrance of the oven for twenty minutes, basting often. When ready to serve, take it up, put a ruffle on the bone, dish up, and serve separately the following sauce :—Cherry Sauce. Soak in water two handfuls of black, dry cherries, as commonly sold in Germany —that is, with the kernels; pound them in a mortar, dilute with a glassful of red wine, and pour the preparation into a sugar-pan. Add to it a piece of cinnamon, two cloves, a little salt, and a piece of lemon zest. Let the preparation boil for two minutes, and thicken it with a little diluted potato-flour; draw the pan on the side of the fire, cover it, keep it there for a quarter of an hour, and pass it afterwards through a sieve. The cooked marinade mentioned above is prepared thus :—First of all some chopped roots and vegetables must be fried with butter, these arc moistened with common vinegar, in quantity nearly sufficient to cover the meats in- tended to be marinaded. When the vegetables are well saturated, mix with the liquid a little salt, cloves, pepper- corns, and other spices. The marinade should continue cooking at least twenty - five minutes. Sometimes a little water is mixed with the vinegar, in order to mitigate its pungency. Wild Boar’s Head, Mock (made from brawn).—Take a copper mould, which opens in the middle, the shape of a boar’s head; then fill it, after buttering, with the mixture such.SALTKD MEATS. 367 as is used for good brawn. Set it by until cold, it will then turn out perfect in shape; then coat it with rich glaze, or with some strong aspic jelly, coloured a rich brown; then make some eyes by cutting out oval pieces from boiled white of egg, and cut a hole in the centre the size of a three- penny piece; fill the hole with aspic, and when setting, put a bit of truffle in the middle : failing truffle, use skin of pickled walnut. Put these in posi- tion on each side; then make tusks from Brazil nuts; crack them and boil them, rub the brown skin off, and stick them in an upright position near the mouth. The dish can be orna- mented with aspic jelly in blocks, and chopped jelly can be put about the head. A nicely-folded napkin should be put at the back of the head, and plenty of parsley, lemons, and fancy shapes of truffles, beetroot, &c., used. Or the head, at the neck, may bo decorated by “ piping ” with lard ; some white, some coloured; and devices of various kinds may be made about the head from hard-boiled eggs, jelly, beetroot, &c. The lard, too, may be “ piped ” on to form a flower, or leaves. In fact, there is free scope for ingenuity in giving the final touches to the dish. If it is not convenient to make brawn at home, some may be bought. The best brands of English tinned brawn are very good. The mould may be hired, and a dish almost equal to a Boar’s Head proper may be had at a comparatively small cost. Boar’s Heads with Truffles range from about 18s. to £2 or £3 each. Boar’s Heads with Pistachios are rather cheaper. To the ingredients mentioned in the foregoing recipe, either pistachios or truffles may be added. (See also Forcemeats and Sausages.) SALTED MEATS. GENERAL DIRECTIONS POE CUEING AND PICKLING. Although directions are given for salting various joints under their respective headings, and a list of pickles suitable for meats of all sorts is also inserted, nevertheless it may be useful to give in a concise form, general hints for the process. Meat for salting should be fresh. A piece should not be bought or ordered haphazard from the butcher, unless it is ascertained how long it has been killed; for while quite fresh, the kernels, sinews aud pipes should be taken away, and any blood and moisture removed. Not a trace of anything likely to favour decomposition must remain. Then, if the weather be favourable, the meat may be hung for a day or two, but it must not get the least dry or tainted. In warm weather it must not hang; but really hot, and very cold, frosty weather, are aliko unfavourable for salting meat. The great art of salting consists in rubbing the brine equally and thoroughly into every part of the meat; between the muscles, under the flaps, into any holes made by the butcher’s skowers, or from which kernels were taken; indeed, holes should bo filled up with salt. The meat must be examined often, and should mouldiness appear, that part must be cut off, and fresh salt applied. Meat which is slimy, or has much blood about it, should be rubbed with dry, warm salt, and left to drain well boforo it is put into the brine, or before the dry salt, Ac., which form the pickle, aro put on it. Many368 itJNIVEUSAt COOKERY BOOK. people omit the sugar in “ pickle,” both “ dry ” and “ wet,” although it is a well-known powerful antiseptic, and gives mellowness to the meat. No doubt in days gone by, its omission was due mostly to its high price. Now this drawback is removed. Many authorities on the cuisine assort that the sugar should be at least a third the weight of the salt; others give a larger proportion; in a few eases, the sugar exceeds the weight of the salt. This is, however, seldom necessary. The quality of the salt is important. Bay salt is rather more expensive than common salt, but gives a finer flavour. Saltpetre gives a good colour, but hardens the meat; it should, therefore, bo used in small proportions only. When a savoury flavour is liked, a minced onion can be put with the pickle, and some herbs in powder are much liked by mai s to the respective merits of dry and wet pickle, there is something to be said for and against both. When salted dry, meat has a better flavour, bat it is rather more trouble to rub and turn, and loses in weight. When immersed in brine, by the wet process, meat gains in weight, and is said to keep longer; but there is the trouble of boiling the brine in the first instance. It is, however, cheaper than the dry salting, and is useful when large quantities of meat are being dealt with. It cau be boiled up and used again, if more salt be added, and it is carefully skimmed; the portion which would cause it to spoil, will rise in scum, and must bo removed. The meat must be kept well uuder the brine; to ensure immer- sion a board may be laid upon it. The pickling tub, or pan, must be dry and sweet at the time of using. If a tub, we advise that it be occasionally rinsed with a weak solution of permanganate of potash, and dried in the air. The time for keeping meat in briue can only be determined by the degree of saltness required, and its kind and weight. Beef—particu- larly lean beef—absorbs salt more quickly than pork; if a piece of each kind, equal in weight, were put in the same briue, the beef might be ready in a week, while the pork might be left twice or thrice as long, and not be too salt. Pork is made more digestible by salting; many can eat pickled pork or bacon who cannot partake of fresh pork. Beef, on the other hand, is less digestible and nourishing when salted, because a good deal of the nourishing properties are drawn from the lean by the salt; there- fore, although cured meat is much liked by many, and is useful when fresh meat is difficult to obtain, it should only be eaten occasionally by those who have ample facilities for obtaining fresh meat. Pickle, No. 1.—Required : a pound each of common salt, bay salt, and brown sugar, an ounce each of ground cloves, allspice, and nutmeg, and two ounces of saltpetre. Reduce the salt to powder; set it near the fire to become hot; add all the rest of the ingredients, and make them warm. Give a piece of meat of twenty pounds or so, twenty minutes’ rubbing, then strew the salt, &c., all over it. For small pieces, reduce the proportions, and rub for a shorter time. This will produce a very high flavour. No. 2.—Required : half a pound of bay salt, four ounces of common salt, six ounces of sugar or treacle, half an ounce of saltpetre,, nnd a quarter of an ounce of black pepper.369 SALTED MEATS. Mix all iii the dry state, thou warm and use as above. Meat cured with this will be very nice and mellow. The proportions are right for a piece of ten or twelvo pounds, such as brisket or flank. No. 3.—Make this as above, but use common salt instead of bay salt, and increase the sugar or treacle by two ounces. No. 4.—Required : twelve ounces of bay salt and sugar, a small tea- spoonful each of pepper and mixed spice, half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs, a large oniou, chopped, and a pinch of cayenne. Mix as direct ed above. Meat cured with this will bo tender, but not highly coloured, no saltpetre being used. No. 5.—This is called Hamburg Pickle. Required: a gallon of water, a pound and a half of bay salt, a pound of sugar (the coarsest brown), an ounce of bruised black peppercorns, and an ounce and a half of saltpetre. Boil altogether for twenty minutes, and skim well. Pour it into an earthen pan, and leave until cold. It is then ready for the meat. No. 6.—This is for Dutch, or Hung Beef. Required : two ounces of saltpetre, a pound and a quarter of bay salt, an ounce and a half of black pepper, a saltspoonful of ground mace, and a pound of treacle. Mix the dry materials ; warm the treacle, and mix with the rest, then use the same as an ordinary dry pickle. No. 7.—Required : a pound of salt, an ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of sugar, and three quarts of water. This is cheap and quickly made. Boil aud use as directed in No. 5. Pork is very good when pickled in this. The same quantity of salt, &c., will do for a gallon of water, if not to be kept for long; and the above proportion of sugar can be made to serve for twice the weight of salt and twice the measure of water, but the saltpetre should be proportionately increased. Bacon, to Cut up a Pig for. —In a pig of fair size, the chine, which is excellent for roasting or boiling, is cut from between the sides or flitches as shown in the diagram ; hut if the pig is small the flitches should be divided down the chine. The shoulders may be left attached to the sides, or separated, ac- cording to the size of the pig. The legs are made into hams, and the sides form what is bacon proper. The head may be served in various ways. If divided, the halves are called cheeks; or, if again cut through, the top fart is termed eye piece, and the lower one chap, or chawl. These are generally salted and boiled. The inner fat is made into Lard. The trimmings are converted into Sausages, Pies, &c. (See recipes for Brawn, Ears, Feet, &c.) Fio. 93.—Diagram of Bacon Pio. Bacon, to Choose. — Where much is consumed, in tho case of a largo fumily, it is most economical to buy a whole side. Tho fore-end a The Chine. u The Head. c The Leg. D Tbe Flitch. e The Shoulder.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 370 should then be cooked first. In pur- chasing a piece, its goodness can bo guaranteed if the fat has a clear, pinky look ; should it look rancid and yellow, or have streaks of yellow in it, and the salt be crusted on the lean, rej ect it; nothing will make it palat- able, though it might be eatable. For frying or broiling, streaky bacon is boat, and is generally preferred in the case of home-cured bacon; but from Wiltshire bacon, the loin is much liked. For boiling, the shoulder, any part, will be found excellent, and is lower in price than the streaky. For ordinary unsmoked bacon, the price is from 6d. or 7d. for American “ belly drafts,” to 8d. or 9d. for best home cured; the latter may reach lOd. per pound. Bacon, to Cnre and Keep free from Rust (Cobbett’sRecipe). -—William Cobbett, in his “ Rural Economy,” gives the following method of curing bacon. Practical persons highly recommend it:—Take two sides or flitches of bacon, rub the insides with salt, then place one on the other, the flesh side uppermost, in a salting- trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine ; for to have sweet and fine bacon the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it the]^objectionable taste that barrel and sea-pork have. Everyone knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state; therefore, change the salt often—once in four or five days— let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; change the flitches every ten days ; put that at bottom which was first on the top. This mode will cost a great deal more in salt than the sopping mode, but without it the bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. The time required in making the flitches sufficiently salt depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place ; but for the flitches of a hog of seven or eight stones, in weather not very dry or damp, about six weeks may do; and as the flitches should be fat, it receives little injury from over-salting. Bacon, to Cure (No. 2).—For a medium-sized pig, take a pound and a half of coarse Bugar, the same weight of common salt and bay salt, and six ounces of saltpetre; mix them and set aside. Sprinkle the flitches with salt, and let the blood drain off; then pound the mixture after warming it, and rub it into the meat; turn it daily for a month, and give it at the same time a good rub; then hang it to dry. This is sweet, and of good flavour. It may be smoked if liked, and will then resemble Wiltshire bacon. If not smoked, coat the bacon with malt dust before hanging it to dry. This method has been followed with success for many years at a farm in the Midlands. It is important that if no salting trough be handy, the bacon be so laid that the brine is retained as it runs off the bacon, that it may be used again—that is, it should be poured over the bacon each day when it is rubbed. Towards the end of the curing, some more salt may be warmed, and put on the bacon; and if bay salt is not to be had in the first instance, three pounds of common salt can be made to serve tho purpose, instead of a pound and a half of each kind; but bay salt is much the better. Bacon, to Cure and Roll.— After the hams have been removed from the bacon, it must be boned after the chine has been removed. The bones can then be taken out easily with care. Weigh the bacon, one or two sides as required, and for every seven pounds allow the following in- gredients : — foui- ounces of coarse sugar, four ounces of salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and half a pint of white vinegar. Warm the dry materials, and rub the meat well, particularly on the flesh side; then lay it in a pickling pan, rind down, and leave it for four days. The vinegar is then to be added, and371 SALTED MEATS the bacon left for twenty-four days more. It must be turned daily. Then take it up and let it drain for twenty- four to thirty hours ; press it as flat as possible and roll it very tightly, rind outside; tie it with strong string, and hang it to dry in the usual way. Bacon in Batter.—Required: two eggs, half a pint of milk, three ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, enough powdered herbs and pepper mixed to cover a threepenny piece, a small onion, scalded and chopped, and four to six ounces of raw bacon, or salt pork, cooked. Cost, 8d. to lOd. Grease a shallow baking-tin with some bacon fat; dredge it with bread- crumbs, and shake out all the loose ones; cut the bacon up in dice, and put in the tin, then make a batter of the rest of the ingredients, adding the whites of eggs last; pour this over the bacon. Bake in a sharp oven for twenty minutes or so; the surface should be brown. Cut in squares, and serve on a hot dish. If a shallow dish is not handy, a deep one must be used; then an ounce and a half more flour will be wanted, and longer time for the baking; but this is not nearly so nice as tho first lecipe. Bacon and Beans.—Required : a pound of small, white haricots, sea- soning, stock, and half a pound of bacon. Cost, about 8d. Boil the beans in the usual way; do not drain them, but let them absorb all the liquor; then turn them into a deep dish for serving, and pour over half a pint of any plain stock, thickened, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Cut the bacon in slices; it can be boiled or cooked in any other way; lay it round the beans, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Stick some sippets of toast here and there, and serve hot. The other varieties of haricots can be served in like manner; lentils serve the same purpose; and in place of the thickened stock, many sauces are equally suitable and will furnish variety. It should be remembered that bacon, or fat meat, is a suitable accom- paniment to pulse, as the element lacking in beans, &c., is thereby furnished. Bacon, to Boil.—The more highly dried the bacon, the more soak- ing it needs, and the longer must it cook in order to soften the lean. If, after washing and brushing, any rusty parts remain, the}' must be cut care- fully away; but it should not be cut unless really necessary. Bacon which is only moderately dried may be cooked after very little soaking; while new bacon can be put on as it is, supposing the cut to be from the back ; but it is always well to soak the shoulder, particularly the part known as the “fore-hock,” or “fore-end.” In soaking, tepid water at the first will be found to soften the meat better than cold water ; the latter should be used later. Both need renewal. Put the bacon on in cold water, if old and well dried; mild cured, new bacon, can go in tepid water (shoulders excepted); bring to the boil, and skim often, then cook slowly to the end. Tho time varies greatly; a couple of pounds may take an hour and a half or more, or may be done in rather more than an hour if thin and new; while a thick piece of a pound only, if dry and hard, might require even longer, owing to its condition. Good bacon should swell and plump; and it should be done enough for the skin to come off easily, but not long enough for the lean to fall apart in strings when cut; that is a proof that it is overcooked and has lost much flavour. It should be tender, but should hold together in a compact slice. Bacon, Smoked, to Boil.— Wiltshire, Cumberland, and Ireland, all send large supplies of smoked bacon to all parts of the kingdom. Of tho best brands of either, almost any part may be boiled without soaking, shoulders excepted. The rolled smoked bacon is very nice, and con- venient for boiling; it may be carvedUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 372 so easily. Some of it is very little inferior to ham. It should be put on in cold water. The thin streaky parts of the best Wiltshire bacon need no soaking, hut long boiling, owing to the thickness of the rind, or it will be found difficult to remove. The loin is excellent boiled; the fact of its being cured with the hones in, making it so sweet and full of flavour. Some of the recipes for savoury rice may ho followed with success, when an adj unct to a dish ot hot boiled bacon is wanted. Vegetables may he served also if liked; peas will he sure of find- ing favour; while those who may try any of the spiced fruits and sweet pickles in a later chapter, might serve any of them, side by side with a salad, as an acceptable novelty at any time of the year. Such would he found a welcome change from a plain joint in many houses. The cost varies from about 7d. to lOd. per pound, according to quality and the part. The loin is always more than the streaky. Rolled bacon is cheaper. Bacon, to Pry.—See that the pan is clean, and then lay in the slices, thinly cut, evenly and carefully trimmed. Turn over, and cook until rather crisp and a delicate brown. To know when done, see that the fat has lost its raw look in every part. If it is not desired to crisp the bacon, a little fat should be melted in the pan to start with; this must not get very hot; the bacon should be turned as before, and in this way may be fried without gaining colour to any extent. Therefore, the purpose for which it is required must be a guide as to which method should be adopted. For curled bacon, cut it thinly, and fasten it with tiny skewers, then fry it crisply. This is also called “ rolled bacon.” Another way consists in taking off the. edge on one side, leaving the rind on; this, however, is not so good, as it only curls partially, and for garnish- ing purposes the first-named mode is the one to follow. Bacon which is somewhat over-dried may be put in warm water for a short time, and dried before frying. It will then be soft; it will not crisp or brown, but many will find it more agreeable. Bacon, to Grill.—There is no doubt about the excellence of a slice of good bacon when nicely grilled, and there is no questioning the extrava- gance of the method, the fat being literally in the fire. It should be cut thinly and trimmed both sides, then turned often until done through, and a delicate brown. Time, a few minutes. Bacon Olives.—Required: half a pound of bacon, raw, cold meat, bread, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. Cut the bacon thinly, remove the rind, and lay a bit of stuffing on each slice, made by mixing equal parts of crumbs and any sort of cold meat finely chopped, and seasoning them with herbs and pepper. A little milk or stock can be used to moisten this. Roll up the slices and tie them, or put a little skewer through, then cook in tho Dutch oven or frying-pan, until the bacon is done. Remove the string, and dish on a strip of toast. Ham can bo used in the same way, and game or poultry put in instead of the meat. Slices of cold boiled pork are equally appetising so cooked, and the appearance is improved by dredg- ing the olives with raspings before serving. Bacon and Peas. —Peas-pud- ding, or a puree of peas can bo served with bacon, j ust as it is with pickled pork; and if the peas be surrounded by stewed or baked tomatoes, the dish will be found very agreeable and wholesome. Instead of tomatoes, onions can be served ; they furnish a pleasant change. Bacon and Potatoes.—Re- quired : half a pound of bacon, raw, a pound or more of potatoes parboiled, seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d.; more if with sauce.SALTED MEATS. 373 Grease a pie-dish, put in a layer of the potatoes sliced, then a sprinkling of salt and pepper, chopped onion, and powdered sage or other herbs; then a few thin slices of bacon, and so on until used up, the top layer being potatoes. Put some bread-crumbs and more of the seasoning over all, -with a little bacon fat or dripping, and bake for twenty minutes or rather more; then turn out, or servo in the dish, with or without gravy. Gravy for Hashes or Stews is suitable, or a sauce of onions or celery is an excellent accompaniment. Bacon and Potatoes with Cheese. (See recipe for Potatoes with Cheese.)—Prepare a pie-dish as for that, and line with the mashed potatoes, then fill up with sliced bacon, very thinly cut, and potatoes; the latter forming the top layer. Dredge with crumbs, and put a few bits of butter over. Bake until brown ; then turn out, and serve as hot as possible. This is cheap and nourishing, and very tasty when served plainly; but much better with half a pint of cheese sauce poured over it [see recipe in Hot Sauces). Bacon, previously boiled, answers for this dish. Bacon, to Toast.—An ordinary broiler can be used, or a good-sized toasting-fork does very well. In the latter case, something should be put under to catch the fat; a slice of bread is relished by many after it has be- come scaked with the fat. The bacon should be treated as described above; the slices being even in thickness. It must be remembered that the leaner the bacon the slower must be the cook- ing, and only bacon of good quality is nice when cooked by any of these quick methods. If it is dry and hard, it is far wiser to reserve it for boiling and steaming, that it may be improvod and softened by the preliminary soaking. [See Ham, to Steam ) Beef, Collared.—A very cheap dish may be had from the neck, usually called clod, or sticking. It should be cut into shape before salting, so that it may be compactly rolled. The pickle No. 1 is one of the best. For six pounds of meat, rub and turn it daily for a fortnight or so; wash and prepare it by tying as usual; then boil about three and a half tofour hours. If no collaring-tin is handy, leave the meat, tied up, with a plate and weights on the top of it, until quite cold and firm. This part is not very highly flavoured, and is rather coarse and stringy, but it has the advantage of extreme tenderness if slowly cooked; and, by pickling as above, flavour is given to it. The part next the head should be cut off; it will make a nice stew while fresh. Cost, about 5d. or Gd. per pound. Use a third the quantity of pickling ingredients given in the recipe. Beef, Collared, Superior.— Choose flank or brisket, from prime meat. Remove bones, gristle, and Fig. 94.—Collared Beef. coarse inside' skin; then pickle as above directed; or use No. i for a still more highly-flavoured dish. A piece of eight pounds or more may be left for a fortnight to three weeks. For a plain, family dish, garnish with parsley or watercress. Or glaze the meat (aspic may be used instead); put some salad about the dish, with scraped horse-radish, cut lemons, and boot-root. Cost, Gd. to 8d. per pound. This is easily carved. The knife must bo sharp, and tho slices ovcnly and thinly cut, horizontally.374 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Beef, Butch, or Hung.-— Round or rump is used for this (see Pickle No. 6, p. 369). Before using it, rub the meat over with a handful of coarse sugar. Twenty pounds or more of meat should be left for about three weeks in pickle, then smoked; or the meat may be cooked in weak stock and pressed, then served cold. It is used mostly for heightening the flavour of gravies or sauces, a little piece being cut off as wanted. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. per pound. Beef Ham.—Take the silver-side of a round of beef, then rub it in every part with a handful of brown sugar warmed in the oven. Leave it for a couple of days, this will mellow it. Then wipe it, and rub it with half a pound of bay salt and an ounce of saltpetre mixed together thoroughly. Leave it for fourteen to eighteen days, according to its weight, rubbing daily. If liked, it can be smoked; or a very excellent flavour may be given to it by blending an ounce of black pepper, half an ounce each of ground cloves and nutmeg, an ounce of crushed juniper berries, and half an ounce of white pepper, with the salt, &e. Sup- posing this is to be boiled whole, roll it tightly in a cloth, and put some weights on it. Then, after twenty- four hours, put it on in plenty of cold water, and boil slowly ; keep it in the cloth, and press again until cold. . If not to be cooked whole, this must be hung up after smoking; it can then be cut in slices, and cooked like ham; or it may be boiled, but will re- quire soaking for a short time. Or it may be served in chips (see Beef, Smoked, American). Beef, Hamburg. (See Pickle No. 6, p. 369.)—Make enough to cover the meat; it may be ribs, round, or any part preferred. Leave it for a fortnight, then smoke it. It may be boiled, and is used for salads some- times. Cost, variable. Beef, Hunters’.— Required: a nice round of beef, twenty-five pounds or so. Salt it by the directions given in Pickle No. 1 (page 368), giving it three weeks, and rubbing and turning daily. Wash it from the pickle, and put a band- age of strong calico round it to keep it in shape, then lay it in a baking-pan with half a pint of stock; put some suet in shreds over the meat, then cover with a flour and water paste and a greased paper over. Bako in a moderate oven, allowing about twenty- five minutes per pound. The stock must be replenished if required. Remove the bandage when the meat is quite cold, also the paper and paste. Take care that the suet is quite sweet. Cost, 8d. to lOd. per pound. This is a good, substantial dish for a hunt breakfast, or for luncheon for large parties, &c. To serve it, put in some ornamental skewers, and glaze the meat; garnish with plenty of parsley and scraped horse-radish (see also Salads). For small families any piece of beef, aitchbone for example, suited to their requirements, may be cured and cooked in this way, and very good it will be found. Unfortunately, many begrudge the little trouble involved in this mode of cooking, but the flavour and tenderness of the meat will repay anyone who may try it. Beef, Round of. Spiced.—Pre- pare a pickle by the directions given in PickleNo. 4 (page369), but for eighteen to twenty pounds of meat, use double the quantity of each ingredient. Rub and turn the meat dailj-, or twice daily, for a fortnight. The lean is the part to rub most. When ready to cook, wash and dry the meat, and cook as directed for Hunters’ Beef, allowing at least thirty minutes per pound. If that way of cooking is not convenient, put it; in an iron boiling pot, with some sliced" vegetables, and enough weak stock to cover it—that from any fresh boiled meat will do—and cook gently for the time specified. The liquid must scarcely bubble, or the meat will be hard. The liquid must be renewed as required. Turn all outSALTED MEATS. 375 into a pan, and remove the meat when cool. Finish off with a garnish of parsley and horse-radish, or the meat may be glazed, or brushed over with aspic. (See also Tongues.) Cost, as above. To carve this a sharp thin knife is wanted, such as are used in “ham and beef’’shops. Any unequal projections should be cut off, then slices taken horizontally. They are usually pre- ferred thin. The top slice may be divided at the family table. In res- taurants and hotels it is put aside, not given to customers. By the same rule it should not be given to a guest at one’s own table. Beef, Salted Quickly.—This dish is only just removed from a joint in the fresh state, but it is very tasty, and many will like it better than meat which has been salted fully. For six pounds of beef, from the brisket, or any other boiling part, put on a plate a quarter of a pound of salt, two ounces of sugar, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a good pinch of mixed spice; warm the mixture, and rub the meat for ten minutes. Leave it for an hour, and rub again well; repeat a few times, then let it lie all night. When ready to cook, rinse the meat, and put in a saucepan of tepid water; bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Allow rather more than half an hour per pound. If brisket, tie it across with tape a few times to keep its shape. An hour or rather more before dishing, put some young carrots in the same pan, together with some little dump- lings, marrow or suet (see Puddings). Serve the meat with the carrots and dumplings round, and some of the liquor, flavoured and thickened for gravy. Cost, about 8d. per pound: This will make a nice breakfast- dish when cold. A bullock’s tongue ran be prepared and served in just the same way. Treacle may be used in place of sugar, and other spices may be added. For large pieces of meat, the quantities of salt, 4c., must be increased in proportion. Beef, Smoked, American.— A piece of beef should bo kept in brine for ten to twenty days, according to its size, then hung in the chimney, over a sawdust fire, for a fortnight or more. It must then be rubbed with black pepper, and hung in a cool, airy place. When once it has been cut, the cut part must be wrapped in thick paper. When it is to be served, pare the outside skin off, and shave the meat into thin chips. If very salt, it is im- proved by soaking in warm water for a few minutes. For a pound of beef melt a slice of butter or dripping in a frying-pan; stir in the beef, after peppering it well, and when it begins to “ fizz,” shake a half tablespoonful of flour over it. Then pour in a little stock or gravy, not much more than a gill; when the sauce is thick, serve very hot. Two or three eggs can be beaten up, and stirred in the pan with the beef and gravy. The beef is sometimes cut into chips, and served without further dressing. Either of the pickles given will do for this, but Nos. 1, 2, or 4 will he most suitable. The meat may either be used in a week or two, or hung like bacon before cutting. Brawn.—Required : a pig’s head, of about five pounds, a pound of lean beef, from the shin, or from an ox cheek, seasoning, &c., as below'. Cost, about 3s. 6d. Split the head, take the brains out, rub it with salt, and leave for a day; drain it well, and put it in pickle No. 7, with the beef, just enough to cover them. Turn daily for five or six days; then wash the meat, and put it in a saucepan with a sliced onion, a bay leaf, a sage leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a dozen black peppercorns. Cover with cold' water, and boil until the bones slip from tho meat; skim very often; then tako the meat up and cut it in little squares; season with a tea- spoonful of pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, and the fourth of a small nut- meg grated, with some powdered herbs376 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. if liked. Reduce a little of the liquor by quick boiling, down to a gill; mix this with the meat, then put it in basins or moulds, and leave until firm and cold. To turn it out, dip the mould in warm water (in cold weather the water must he hot), then dry it; put the dish on the top, reverse the mould quickly, and the brawn will slip out. If the stock he diluted with fresh liquor from meat that has not been salted, it will serve, with plenty of vegetables and cereals, for thick soup of the puree kind For any other sort it is not available. The tongue must he skinned before it is cut up. If liked, it can be kept for a separate dish. Brawn, Ormskirk.—Required : the head, ears, and feet of a small pig, two tongues in addition to the one in the head, seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. per pound. See Brawn ; prococd as directed ; lay all the meat in pickle No. 2; turn it daily for five days, then rinse and dry the meat, and boil until all the bones slip out. The ears will take a long time. Skin the tongues, and cut all up very small; season with black pepper and ground nutmeg, a little sage and salt; a pinch of cayenne improves it. Reduce the liquor to a pint or so; stir some of it to the meat in a saucepan; make all hot, and then pour into moulds or basins. Brawn, Superior.— Required: half a pig’s head, two feet, two sheep’s tongues, and a pound of streaky pork, belly-piece, seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Pickle the meat as above, then put all on to boil with a sliced onion, a carrot, and a bunch of herbs. When the bones fall out, cut it up as above directed; season it with white pepper, ground mace and cayenne ; add a little of the liquor, and salt if required. Put it in a tin mould, or collaring tin as shown on page 383, and leave until firm before turning out. Keep it in a cold place; it cuts so much firmer and nicer. Chaps, Bath.—Tho excellence of these will depend very much upon the amount of soaking and boiling they re- ceive. If these be neglected, the meat will be hard. Plenty of cold wator should be used for the washing and soaking; a small brush is needed to cleanse the chap; let it remain for a night, or longer if very dry. Put it on to boil in cold water, bring gently to the boil, skim well, and boil for two to three hours. In this instance, a cer- tain time for a given weight must be considered less than the time that will be required to soften the meat; i.e. its dryness plays a prominent part. When done, skin it, and dredge with rasp- ings. Sorve hot with green vegetables, or cold as a breakfast dish, with salad, &c. After dredging this, or any similar meat with raspings, put it near tho fire for a minute or two. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Ham, to Choose.—A ham with short bones should always be selected if possible. To know if good, pass a skewer through the middle, to the bone, and also at the knuckle; if it smells sweet, and is free from greasi- ness when withdrawn, the ham is good. Strong odour and a greasy skewer prove that the ham, although it may not be actually bad, is not first-rate, or even good. In buying half a ham, notice the fat. It should not be yellow and rancid looking, or streaked with yellow. It should be clear, and of a pinkish white. The kind of ham to select depends as much upon the pocket as the taste of the purchaser. For ordinary purposes, whether to serve hot with vegetables, or cold as a breakfast-dish, the small, sugar-cured Canadian are very good. They are low in price, and some are almost as mild in flavour as a piece of pickled pork. A good home-cured ham, well matured, is not easily beaten in point of flavour; such are not now very easily procured, for naturally, owing to the storage required, they cannot compote in price with those above-named; and, therefore, theSALTED MEATS. 377 curing of them is said not to pay. The hams of Cumberland and York fetch a high price, and are very delicious, so are the Wiltshire smoked. Irish hams may be had both plain and smoked; some of the best are quite equal to Wiltshire, but there are several qualities; the same may be said of Irish bacon. Cost, from 7d. to Is. 2d. per pound, according to kind and quality. Average, 9d. to lOd. Ham, Baked.—A baked ham is much more delicious than a boiled one, and will keep better. Put a ham into plenty of cold water for some hours. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours will be necessary; for an ordinary mild-cured ham, from eight to twelve hoursissufficient. Wash it in lukewarm water, trim it neatly, and cut away all the rusty smoked parts. Cover it with a coarse paste made of flour and water, and take care to leave no loophole through which the gravy can escape. Bake in a moderate oven, liemove the paste and skin while the ham is still hot, cover it with raspings, and brown it before the fire. Time, according to the size. A ham of ten pounds will take about twenty - five to thirty minutes per pound if thick, while a heavier ham, if thin, might be done in the same time, or even less. The shape, as well as the weight, must be taken into consideration, and the age and quality play no small part in the matter. [See Ham, Boiled.) Ham, Baked (German recipe).— After removing all discoloured parts of a ham, strew over it a savoury powder, made by mixing a teaspoonful of ground cloves with the same measure of pepper, and a good tablespoonful of finely-powdered sage. A flour and water paste, of an inch in thickness, ii next put over it, and the ham baked in a moderate oven. The paste is re- moved while the ham is hot, and the ham finished off by glazing and gar- nishing. Note.—The skin is to be removed before baking. Ham, Boiled.—Soak the ham in several lots of water. If very hard and salt, twenty-four hours or more will be required ; if not, from eight to twelve hours will suffice. Lukewarm water will soften it more quickly than cold. Scrub it well, and scrape off the rusty, discoloured parts, but do not cut the skin if it can be avoided. Put it into the kettle with plenty of cold water. If a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three carrots, and a bay-loaf are added, the flavour will be improved. Let it be brought to a boil very slowly, skim it carefully, and simmer veiy gently until sufficiently cooked. If it is not intended to be kept any length of time and still not to be cut until cold, it may be left in the water for an hour after it is done enough ; this will improve the taste of the ham, but it will render it less likely to keep. Lift it out by the knuckle to avoid sticking a fork into it. Take off the skin, strew over it some browned crumbs of bread, roll a frill of paper round the knuckle, and send it to table neatly garnished. If the ham is to be glazed, the bread- raspings must be omitted. Preserve the skin, and place it over the ham when it is put into the larder, as it will keep in the moisture. Time, for a new ham, about twenty-five minutes per pound. An old one may want more than thirty minutes. The thickness must be taken into account. Ham, Boiled (Various ways).— Wash and soak the ham, add to the last soaking water a gill of vinegar, and put in the water for boiling a half-pint of vinegar, and an equal measure of cider. This is an old recipe, said to be excellent. After the ham has been strewn with raspings, sot it in the oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Another uay.—Put in tho water for boiling a small quantity of ale; this is suited to highly-flavoured hams, for tho curing of which treaelo has been used. Another way.—Tho ham is to bo tied in a thin cloth, and put in a pan not378 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. much more than its own size, then covered with three parts water to one part cider or light wine; a morsel of garlic, a sliced onion, some celery- stalks, and a piece of cat-rot should he tied in a hag, together with a leek if obtainable, and boiled with the rest. Boil, then skin, and leave the ham until cold after wiping the fat; then glaze it, and garnish to taste. This recipe may be confidently recom- mended. Another, similar one, directs that the ham be tied round with a wisp of now hay beforo the cloth is put on it. Another way.—Boil a ham until nearly done ; skin it, and pour a glass of sherry over. Put it to the fire, and repeat again in a few minutes. Then put raspings on, and serve hot or cold. Ham, Broiled or Grilled.— A matured ham is the nicest, but it must not bo hard. If there is any fear that it will bo, soak it in warm milk or water for a short time. The slices must bo even, and the cooking gradual, both at first and all through. The fierce heat necessary for the closing of the pores of fresh meat, would spoil salt meat of any sort. Broiled ham is more economical than grilled ham. If a Dutch oven be used, some cold potatoes may be re-heated in the bottom. They will absorb the dripping, and are generally relished for breakfast. When grilling is preferred, wipe the gridiron, and rub the bars with a bit of fat ham, then cook gently for about eight minutes. Ham, Cured.—An easy method. The pig should be a year old at least, and killed in weather neither damp and muggy, nor vory frosty. The ham should hang a day after it is cut out, then have a sprinkling of salt, and hang for another day. Mix half a pound of salt, the same of coarse sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Lay the ham, rind down, on a large dish, rub it well with the salt, &c., and baste and turn it every day. Leave it for a month, then drain it, and coat it with bran. Hang it in a cool place. If hot, it will be dry and hard, and may turn rancid. It must be watched, and should any part turn yellow, scrape it off, and rub the part with pepper, salt, and flour, mixed in equal proportions. Another way.—Use for each ham, six ounces each of bay salt and common salt, twelve ounces of sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of black pepper. Dry these before the fire, and rub the hams well. As many as may be wanted may be cured at once, these proportions being duly increased. The hams must then change places in the tub or pan, the one at the bottom being brought to the top, and vice versd. Before hanging up, hams should be dusted over with flour or malt dust. Some prefer to wrap them in brown paper, and coat over with lime wash. We think that nothing is nicer than malt dust; the ham may be first lightly floured. Ham, Cured (Bayonne).—Shorten a leg of pork as much as possible, put a press or weight on, and leave for a few hours, then rub all over with half a pound of salt and an ounce of salt- petre. Make a pickle by boiling to- gether wine and water in equal parts, with a teaspoonful of juniper berries, a sprig of thyme, basil, and sage, two bay leaves, some "hole peppercorns and coriander seed, about half a tea- spoonful of each. When well flavoured, strain, and pour off. Lay the ham in a pan, pour the pickle over, and spriuklo salt on it; leave it for three weeks, turn- ing daily; then dry it, and smoke it with aromatic wood. When smoked it should be rubbed over with wine lees, then dried, and finally wrapped in paper, and stored in wood ashes. Ham, Cured (Bordyke recipe).— After rubbing the hams with salt and draining them, take for every twelve pounds the following ingredients: three ounces of brown sugar, one ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of bay salt, and three ounces of common salt, all dry, and in fine powder.SALTED MEATS. 379 Rub and turn daily for four days, then add half a pound of treacle, and keep in the pickle, turning and rubbing as before, for a month. Drain for a night, wrap the hams in brown paper, and have them smoked for a month. If a high flavour is liked, an ounce of ground black pepper and two ounces of bruised juniper berries may be mired with the saltpetre, and rubbed into the meat before the salt, &c., are added. Ham, Cured (H. Ude’s recipe).— As soon as the pig is sufficiently cold to be cut up, take the hams, rub them well with common salt, and let them drain for three days. Dry them, and for two hams, weighing sixteen or eighteen pounds each, take a pound of salt, a pound of moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Rub the hams thoroughly with this mixture, put them into a deep pan, with the skin downwards, and turn and baste them every day for a month, at the end of three days pouring a bottle of good vinegar over them. Drain and dry them well, and if they are to be smoked, hang them high in the chim- ney, to keep the fat from melting. “ This,” says M. Ude, “ is superior to a Westphalia ham.” Ham, Cured with Hot Pickle.—Rub a ham weighing about eighteen pounds with an ounce and a half of pounded saltpetre, and an ounce and a half of brown sugar. Leave it until the next day, then make a hot pickle, by putting one quart of strong beer or porter into a saucepan, with two pounds of salt, half a pound of brown sugar, an ounce of black pepper, an ounce of allspice, and a small piece of sal prunella. Pour this, when boil- ing, over the ham, and let it remain foT three weeks, rubbing in twice or three times every day. Drain and dry it, and, if possible”, smoke it for a fortnight. A ham cured in this way has very much the flavour of a West- phalia ham. The vessel for this must be deep, that the ham may be well covered. Ham, Fried.—Only ham of good quality should bo fried. Hard ham will be hardened further, and made almost uneatable, and quite indiges- tible. The pan must be clean, and the ham should be sliced and laid in with- out any other fat, unless exceptionally lean ham be used. It Bhould be turned often, and cooked gently. If eggs are wanted with it, keep the ham on a hot dish, set over a pan of boiling water, with a cover over (a deep dish will do, failing a cover). Do not put it near the fire to keep hot; it will go on cooking, and be hardened. Fry the eggs carefully (see Eggs), and dish them, one on each piece of ham. Poached eggs, it should be remem- bered, are more digestible than fried ones, and may be served with ham when fried eggs disagree. Many dishes of eggs, given in a subsequent chapter, are suitable accompaniments to a dish of ham. Ham, Fried, with Succo- tash.—For a novel breakfast dish— novel to most people, at any rate—this is worth a trial. Heat a tin of succo- tash, turn out the contents after sea- soning to taste, and put some sliced ham on the top. A dish of plain salad may be served with it. Cost, according to quantity. Ham, Garnished Plainly.— For a cold dish, draw the skin off, and dredge raspings over the ham; fasten a frill of paper round the knuckle, and garnish the dish with parsley, celery, or carrot tops, watercress, or small cress and mustard, with tomatoes or radishes intermixed; a few slices of lemon add to the appearanco of tho dish. Cooked vegetables may bo used in place of salad. By keeping tho skin, and laying it over the ham where cut, it will bo kept moist. A thin coat of glaze—which is now very cheap, He page 10—miy be put on the ham in place of raspings. This method should bo adopted when serving a hain hot for dinner; or a portion only of the rind mny be taken off, by carving it in an ornamental dovice; tho partUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 380 left on being glazed. Cooked vege- tables, such as sprouts, or spinach with eggs, small carrots and turnips, or any others in season, should be put about the dish. The sauce must be served separately. If a more elaborate dish is wanted see pages 246 and 247. Hints on piping hams are given in a chapter on Garnishes, &c. Ham, Spanish. — These hams require care and attention ; the cleans- ing and soaking are very important. After scraping, put the ham in cold water for thirty to forty hours, chang- ing the water twice or thrice; then put it on to boil in cold water; take it up in an hour, after gentlo cooking, and put it in a braising pan with wine and stock to cover it. Then cook it gently for four hours, or more, accord- ing to size, and let it get cold in the liquor. Plain bone stock, or the liquor from boiled fresh meat or poultry will answer, although a bettor stock is pre- ferable. A ham of this sort has not a fair chance of attaining perfection if it is cooked in water only, and taken up as soon as done. After this treatment the ham may be finished off in the usual way, and served plainly; or it may be garnished, and served for any cold collation. Ham, to Steam.—The prepara- tion of the ham is the same as if for boiling; it is then put in the steamer over cold water, if the ham bo dry and old ; the water is then brought to the boil, and the ham cooked rather longer than if boiled. If tho ham be new, it may be put in over hot water. A piece of ham can be nicely done in a potato steamer; for a whole ham, a good-sized oval steamer is required. A piece of bacon may be steamed in the same way. If flavour is desired, some vegetables and other ingredients, such as are added to the water for boiled ham, may be put in the water under the steamer. There is a saving of weight in steaming meat, and it is not likely to be spoilt in the cooking. It also requires little attention, and for that reason commends itself to busy people, if for no other. A piece of steamed ham may bo brushed over with glaze, and served hot, with a nice sauce, and a salad. The latter may be of tho plain, un- cooked kind, or a vegetable salad may be served (see recipes). Ham, Westphalian. — "West- phalia is celebrated for tho delicacy and flavour of its hams. A West- phalia ham needs to bo soaked longer than one cured at home. It should be laid in cold water for twenty-four hours, drained, covered with fresh water, and left for another twenty- four hours. When sufficiently soaked, cleanse and trim it, put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Take it up, put it in a stewpan upon a bed of sliced carrots, onions, and celery, and add a bunch of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, three bay loaves, a dozen peppercorns, half a dozen cloves, and a blade of mace. Pour over the ingredients as much stock as will barely cover them, and let the ham simmer gently until done enough. Take the stewpan from the fire, and leave the ham in the liquor till cold. Take it up, draw off the rind, trim the fat evenly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, then press it with a dry cloth to free it from fat, and either glaze it or shake bread- raspings all over it. Time to simmer the ham, about five hours. If no stock is available for cooking the ham, use the liquor from boiled meat or poultry, with any bones that may be handy. “ Justice is not done to these hams,” says an authority, “ if plain water only is used for the cooking.” Ham, with Eggs and Veal Sausages. (See recipes for Veal Sausage Meat.)—Prepare some small sausages, and fry them ; if more con- venient, make sausage - meat cakes; then fry tho eggs in the fat from tho ham and sausages. Tho ham should be in strips, and very delicately381 SALTED MEATS. cooked. Have as many squares of bread as there are eggs ; fry or toast these, put on each two strips of ham, with the sausage in the middle. Lay an egg on the top; dish neatly, and serve hot. Cost, Is. 4d. for a dish made from half-a-pound each of ham and sausages, and four eggs. Ham, with Eggs and Vege- table Marrow. — Required: a pound or more of ham, a medium sized marrow, six or seven eggs, and half a pint of parsley sauce. Cost, about 2s. Broil the ham, then cut it in pieces even in size. Boil or steam the marrow, after dividing it in pieces rather larger than the ham. Poach the eggs, then dish as follows. Lay a few slices of fried bread or toast on a hot dish; put the ham on the bread, and an egg on each piece of marrow; lay them round the dish ; sprinkle the eggs with a pinch of chopped parsley, and pour the sauce over the ham. Another icay.—In addition to the above some green peas are required. In dishing, lay the eggs on the ham, and put the peas on the pieces of marrow; pour the sauce over the ham and eggs, and serve very hot. Ham, with Fried Haricots. —Required: half a pound of small haricots, white or green, a pound or so of ham, seasoning as below. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. After the beans have been boiled and become cold, season them with pepper and a pinch of mixed herbs in powder. Fry the ham, and keep it hot, then put the beans in the pan, and fry them in the ham fat, adding a little more bacon or pork dripping if not sufficient. Turn them about to heat them through, then put them on a hot dish, and lay the ham in neat pieces round them. This is excellent as it is, but may be improved by mixing a fried onion or two with the beans; or by pouring some brown onion sauce over them; or a little brown piquant sauce may bo put over the ham. Perhaps nothing is a greater improvement than a spoonful or two of hot cream, mixod in with the beans just before dishing, and some chopped parsley or other seasoning sprinkled on the top. Ham, with Fried Potatoes. —Any of the recipes for fried potatoes may be followed. The ham should be dished with the potatoes round. Potato chips, or ribbons, sprinkled with parsley and cayenne, may bo especially recommended. Cold pota- toes, Med, are not to be despised. Some brown macaroni can be put with the potatoes, alternately, round the dish for variety. Mutton Ham.—Choose a short, thick, fresh leg of mutton, weighing twelve or fourteen pounds, and cut it into the form of a ham. Pound in a mortar half a pound of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse brown sugar. Make the mixture hot in a stewpan, then rub it thoroughly into the meat. Turn the ham every morning for four days, and rub the pickle well into it. On the fifth day add two ounces more of common salt. Rub and turn it in the brine for twelve days more, then drain and wipe dry ; rub it with dry salt, and hang it up in wood-smoke. No sort of meat is more improved by smoking with aromatic woods than mutton. When once dried it will keep for six months. Mutton hams may be roasted or boiled; but in either case they should be soaked, unless quite freshly done, when they will only requiro washing. As a breakfast-dish, with eggs, mutton ham is commonly used in the North of England and in Scot- land : it is cut in slices as required, and broiled lightly. Time to smoke, one week. Cost, lOd. or so per pound. Gx Tongues, to Boil.— A tongue which has been in pickle for a fortnight or so requires but a short time to soak; a smoked one needs some hours. Trim the tongue neatly about the root; wash it, and put it in a saucepan of cold water; skim just before it boils, then, when free fromUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 382 scum, put in a few slices of onion and carrot, a bunch of herbs, and if a plain brine has been used to pickle it, add some spices tied in muslin. If spices have been used in the pickle they arc not needed. Boil as gently as possible; if fast, the tip will become ragged, and the root will remain hard. A medium- sized tongue will take three hours or more; a large one from four to five hours. Test it with a skewer, but avoid probing more than necessary, or a good deal of the goodness will be lost. Skin it as soon as it is cool enough to handle, and be careful to make no holes in the flesh. If not to be collared, put it on a board, and pass a skewer or two through the thick end, and another in the tip, to keep it in shape until cold. The under-part must first be cut evenly, for the tongue to stand well on the dish. If fat is not liked, a good deal must be removed. Those who like fat usually prefer it all left on, except any parts which would spoil the appearance. Cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Ox Tongue, to Carve.—The illustration below shows an ox tongue as generally served, garnished plainly with a paper frill, some parsley or Fig. 95.—Ox Tongue for Tabi.k. watercress, and some scraped horse radish, but the latter may be dis- pensed with. Perhaps the most common way of carving is to make a cut near the centre of the tongue, carrying the knife only about three-fourths down, and then taking slices from both sides until the root and tip are reached. This is wasteful—the fat left on the dish becomes discoloured by the time the tongue is consumed; and a more economical way is to cut the tongue right down, through the middle, then take slices thinly from both sides. As has been already said, superfluous fat should be cut off before it is dished j then the probability is that not more than will be eaten is left on. When the meal is over, the two parts should be pushed together, to prevent dry- ness. Any fat which may be left, so long as it is sweet, will come in useful for mixing with lean beef, or other meat for potting. Ox Tongue, to Collar.—The very simplest way is to roll the tongue round, tip inside, while hot, just after skinning, and tie it firmly with plenty of tape. A plate is then put over, and some weights put on the top. Or it can be put in a round cake tin, as nearly as possible the same depth; any cuttings from the bottom of the tongue may be put in the middle, and it must be rolled tightly, or it will not turnout firmly. The best method is to put in a collaring-tin, or brawn- press. There are many varieties, but the one shown is simple and inex- pensive. The tongue should be cut through, lengthwise, while hot, and the halves curled round and laid in, one on the other; the thick part of the second half being- placed on the thin part of the first. The tin, a, is made with a hollow bottom; the drainer, b, fits in; the meat is laid on it, and then the lid, c, is put on the meat. The lid being smaller than the tin, drops inside, so that, supposing the meat only reaches half the depth of the tin, it is as well pressed as if it quite filled it. Woights, or flat-irons, are set on the lid, and the meat is left until quite cool. The tin may be made any depth; one of about twelve inches is very useful. It will then serve for two tongues, or a nice-sized piece of.SALTED MEATS. 383 beef. The collaring-tin must be set on a plate, that any moisture from the drainer may be preserved. It consists mostly of fat, and should be clarified Fio. 9ti.—Collarixo Tin. with the pot skimmings, for use in the kitchen. A collared tongue is carved like a round of beef, and is not only very easy, but insures the fair distribution of fat and lean. Ox Tongue, to Cure.—When the tongue is brought in, see that there are no bruises on it; if so, they will not take the salt, and will have to be cut out after cooking. Rub a little salt on, and drain it, then put it in pickle. No. 1 is a good one if spice is liked; or the same without the spices may be used. Half the quan- tities of salt, &c., will do for one tongue. No. 2 can also be used, and if a high flavour is wished for, the other dry pickles for Dutch or Ham- burg Beer will serve equally well for tongues. From two to three weeks should be allowed, according to their size; as a rule, a little over a fort- night will cure a medium-sized tongue sufficiently. If a number are cured together, the Pickle No. 7 may be used. Pig’s Feet, Devilled.— Boil some feet that have been salted in the usual way, until the bones may be drawn from them. Then press the separate halves, and leave until cold. For a couple of feet, put in a saucepan a gill of the liquor in which they were boiled, a tablespoonful of hot chutney, the same of mushroom catsup and brown vinegar, a teaspoonful of dry mustard blended to a paste with the same measure of browned flour, and finely minced onions to suit the palate; salt to be added at discretion. When this has boiled up stir in an ounce of butter, and pour the whole over the feet laid flat in a stewpan. Put the lid on and leave for a quarter of an hour. This is suitable also for calf’s feet Or head, sheep’s feet, or anything else of a gelatinous nature. In serving, strain the sauce over the feet, leaving the onions behind, unless fried onions aro used, then they may be left in. Cost, about 9d. Pig’s Peet, with Eggs.—A very good breakfast dish. Required: a set of feet, half-a-dozen eggs, water, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. In preparing this dish it is supposed that soup is to be made for the next day’s dinner (see recipe for Mock Turtle Soup made with Pig’s Head, on page 63). The feet should be salted for a couple of days only, and well rinsed, then boiled until the bones fall out. The meat is then to be cut up and put in a saucepan, with enough of the liquor from the pan and boiling milk to just cover it. A tablespoonful of flour to each half-pint of liquid should then be' stirred in, and the whole boiled for a few minutes, when it will become n thick mince: pepper and cayenne, with a little salt and nutmeg must be384 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. used to season it. Have a hot dish ready, with a large piece of toast or fried bread on it, or in place of either a layer of mashed potatoes. Turn the mince on it, making it high in the centre ; put five eggs round the base, and one on the top; sprinkle each with a pinch of chopped parsley, and send to table very hot. The eggs may be fried or poached, or steamed, each in a separate cup (see recipes in a later chapter). Another xoay.—Use all pot liquor, and omit the milk in re-heating the feet. Thicken with browned flour, and season with mustard, Worcester sauce, and a spoonful of vinegar, plain or seasoned. This is very savoury. Fried onions may be served with it. The smaller the feet, the nicer looking will he the dish, on account of the colour, but larger feet will he more gelatinous and make better soup 6tock. This is of no importance if the second method be followed, but the first one requires white-looking feet. Pork, Pickled (Various joints). —Supposing it is necessary to pickle a good supply of pork, say a leg, a shoulder, the belly, head and feet; make enough brine to cover the whole, which may he put into a tub or pan. The meat should be sprinkled with dry salt, and left for a day and a night, then he drained. The brine, No. 7, should come an inch or two above, and a hoard with weights on should be put over. The belly may be cooked in a few days ; the head and feet in a week or so; the shoulder will be nice in a fortnight; so will the leg, unless it is desired to convert it into what is sometimes called Mock Ham, i.e. a leg of pork pickled for a month or so, then hung up to dry for a few weeks. But for this purpose the pickles given for hams may he used with greater cortainty of success. The leg will he found very delicious; one of eight pounds or thereabouts may be so cooked. It will take about four hours to boil, and should he treated just like a ham. To cat it in perfection it should not be cut until cold. (See Vindaloo.) Smoking of Tongue or Beef. —See Tongue or Beef, Salted and Smoked. Soused Feet and Ears.—This dish is American, and will be found very tasty. After thorough cleansing, the feet and ears of some bacon pigs are salted as usual (we recommend Pickle No. 4), then boiled until tender in the ordinary way, but with a supply of vegetables for flavouring. They are then taken up, tho feet split, and the ears divided, and packed in a deep jar. Boiling vinegar to oover is then poured over, and to each quart the following spices are added : a blade of mace, a dozen peppercorns, a dozen allspice berries, a saltspoonful of celery seed, a bit of root ginger and a bay leaf; a pinch of soluble cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of salt should be added if the meat is to be kept long. All should be tied in muslin, and boiled in a little of tho vinegar, and left in the jar with the meat. Keep covered in a cool place. Serve with a little of tho pickle, and send salad or sweet pickles to table with them. By way of a change we recommend the addition of a small quantity of herbal vinegar, or a bit of scraped horse-radish. Tongue or Beef, Salted and Smoked.—A very good substitute for the process of smoking, which is some- what tedious, is a preparation known as Cambrian essence, or essence of wood smoke. It is also useful for hams, bacon, and fish. Supposing the meat to bo cured in brine by the wet process, the essence must be added to the liquid. If the dry, or rubbing, process be chosen, then, some of the essence is applied at the end of the time, tho quantity being regulated according to the degree of flavour required. After this, the meat should be hung up to dry before cooking.SALTED MEATS. 385 Tongues, Pigs’ or Sheep’s, to Cure.—These, as well as calves’ tongues, may he cured in either of the pickles given for ox - tongues, and boiled in the same way. Pigs’ tongues will take a long time, although small; sheep’s tongues are done in much less time. When done, thev may be skewered on a board, or can be collared, if a small, round tin is at hand. They are also useful for mixing with pork for brawn. The remains are excellent if potted for breakfast or tea. The tips of tongues may be grated, and used up in a mince, or for flavouring sauces or gravies. The pickles recommended for the above are Nos. 2 and 4; or the liquid brine No. 7 may be used. About a week in either case will be enough to give a good flavour, or shorter time will do if a mild-cured tongue is liked. Pigs' tongues are sent from America ready pickled, and are sold at about fourpence or fivepence per pound. They want a few hours’ soaking, and are improved by the addition of vege- tables to the boiling pot. Vindaloo.—This is a curry and a pickle combined, and is said to be a prime favourite among Europeans in India. When well prepared, it will keep good for an indefinite time. When wanted, it can be served after just warming up. Beef and pork are said to be the best meats, and this recipe is for pork, as many may be glad of something new in the pickled pork line. Take, say, four pounds of young, fat pork, freshly killed, and not washed. If water be used in any form, the meat will not keep. Cut it up into square pieces, of two inches or thereabouts, and rinse them in good vinegar. Hub each well over with curry powder, steep them in good French vinegar to cover for twenty-four hours, with half a tea- spoonful of salt. Heat in a copper pan some good mustard oil; watch for the blue smoke, the usual test, then put in four tablespoonfuls of freshly- made curry powder, mixed into a paste with vinegar; add a heaping tablespoonful of pounded garlic, and the meat, with the vinegar it was steeped in; then put in salt to taste, a teaspoonful of peppercorns, and four bay leaves, and cook until the meat is quite tender. Set by until cold, then put the meat in a perfectly dry jar of earthenware. Pour in oil in which it was cooked, to come an inch or two above the meat; secure it with a stopper, and tie over with bladder. It must be air-tight. Cost, about 3s. uGAME AND POULTRY. (See also Soups, Entries, Pies, Puddings, Pastry, Souffles, Small Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches. See also the Index for the various Adjuncts, Garnishes, Purees, Sauces, &c. &c.) GENERAL REMARKS. Game.—In its broad sense, the term ‘‘game” includes all wild animals that are hunted by sportsmen, and protected by law, while by “ poultry ” is meant the domestic birds, of which the turkey, fowl, gooso and duck are familiar types. Then there are the birds that from their migratory habits belong strictly speaking to neither of the above classes ; for although wild, they are no one’s property, and not protected by law, and therefore are not game. These, and the various small birds, form a sort of connect- ing link between game and poultry, and for our purpose it is not necessary to draw any line between them, as we are dealing with all such in relation to the cuisine. They follow, therefore, in alphabetical order, to facilitate reference; and later on, under Food in Season, we give the list, with the proper season for each bird and animal. Game is on the whole, digestible, and the primest morsels aro those in which the muscles have had least to do—for instance, in a snipe or wood- cock the legs are more juicy than the wings, and naturally so, when one remembers the length of time a snipe will keep “ on the wing ”; a proof in itself of the strength of that part of its body. To attain perfection of flavour, game must hang; the actual length of time (as is pointed out under various headings in the recipes that follow) must depend upon a number of circumstances ; and there is difference of opinion amongst recognised authorities. One says, A pheasant more than any game wants hanging—this is, perhaps, admitted universally—it will keep twenty days in a good airy larder, if the weather be cold and dry. Another says, Hang your pheasant ten days, if the weather holds favour- able, but that is about the limit. For ourselves, we would say that it. is chiefly damp that assists putrefaction, and so long as the weather be dry, and a current of air can be secured, there is no precise limit; but a watch- ful eye is needed, and the tastes of those who will eat the birds must be ascertained. One will liko it so soon as the first signs of decay are apparent; another will wait until the tail feathers can be readily detached, or detach themselves. The right way of hanging is of no small importance, for if birds bo bundled together, the air is excluded, and premature decomposition sets in. For this reason an improved hook, such as is shown in the engraving, is very useful. The single hook takes two, and the double hook four birds. Birds that are not much mangled by shot will keep the best. Black pepperFOWL. Plate IV387 game and poultry. will preserve them from flies. If there is any dauger that they " ill not keep, a little charcoal, powdered, should be sprinkled on them, alter pick- ing and drawing them. If they appear spoilt, they may be brought round sometimes by the aid of vinegar and water, or boras and water, or permanganate of potash; the last is particularly useful for a hare. But unless necessary, washing game-birds should be avoided; a wipe with a'damp cloth is enough. Game that is frozen will not. cook well, unless brought some hours beforehand into the kitchen. With regard to the cooking of game, not only the time, but the actual methods of cooking, and the adjuncts to the dish vary greatly in different households. “ The epicure demands game in its native sim- plicity,” says one writer ; “ he asks only gravy, and that of the best.” “ To lard or farce a grouse or partridge is the reverse Fia. 97.—Game Hooks. of a compliment, equally to the game if mature, and to the guest if a connoisseur," says Sir Henry Thompson. This is true no doubt to an extent ; game of the best requires nothing to heighten its flavour, and is spoilt by new flavours which destroy its own savour and aroma. But foreign game (much of it inferior to the native article) is now sent by shoals into England, and is certainly improved by treatment of the kind referred to. Then change is demanded by those who eat much game—a few genuine epicures excepted—to say nothing of fashion, which in the craze for new dishes is responsible for many that appear at modem tables, and for the base of which a tasteless piece of meat would serve as well as the finest pheasant, so completely is the original flavour obscured. The thing is to hit the happy medium, and to rememljer that birds of the tribe which are often classed as “ fishy,” will bear a sauce or gravy that would ruin an English partridge. Finally, we would add that in every instance, owing to the reasons above stated, the time given for cooking can only be regarded as approximate, particidarly for roasts. Poultry.—A writer has it that “ thousands who talk learnedly on the subject of table poultry, have never seen a first-class bird.” We quote this, not with a view to enter upon any lengthy disquisition, but rather because therein, in a nutshell, lies the cause of many a failure on the part of the cook. She opens a cookery book; it tells her to roast a fowl for a certain time, or a chicken for a certain time, if young and tender; but what sort of a fowl or chicken ? Necessarily, much is left to the commou- sen-e of the person who is scanning the recipe ; she may be about to deal with the most miserable specimen of a bird that ever adorned (?) a table and thousands such are sold in large markets in England every week, worth nothing but to be consigned to the stock-pot); or sho may possess a specimen which would justify the remark that it looked liko a young turkey. But between the puny bird, all skin and bone, and a fowl that might adorn a luncheon table at Epsom, there is a wide gulf. So far as our own recipes go, we are assuming an average bird, either fowl or duck, goose orUniversal cookery book. 388 turkey—such as is obtainable at any good poulterer’s. We would add that in baking any bird, extra time must be allowed over roasting. The removal for basting, and the loss of heat occasioned by the opening of the oven door, necessitate this. There is but little to say about the hanging of poultry; it keeps so short a time in comparison with game, and requires nothing more than watchfulness on the part of the cook. If the least high it is spoilt. It is certainly better to cook a fowl in too fresh than in too stale a condition; When bought at a shop the purchaser should state if to be cooked at once * then a bird in the right condition will be guaranteed, if the poulterer knows his business. Poultry sold in the markets of towns, such as is brought in by small dealers from the surrounding villages, is generally freshly killed, and wants a little hanging. Those who kill their own birds are in the happy position of having them just ready for the spit as required. Over- fed poultry is never satisfactory ; the flavour is spoilt; the fat melts in the cooking, and serves no purpose but that of swelling the contents of the dripping-pot—by no means a cheap way of so doing. The small amount of space allotted to some birds in the following pages, compared with that given to others, is the result, not of accident, but design. Both game and poultry have been so treated that the sorts that are cheapest, and to be had for a greater part of the year, and which lend themselves to more variety of treatment, shall present themselves to the reader in as many forms as possible; while those which, from their costliness, or the short time of their season, or the fact that they are best when served but in a few ways, necessarily occupy but little space. Birds, Small, to Braise.— Required; birds, stock, vegetables, bacon, and garnish. Cost, variable. Any edible birds may be braised. The}' can be stuffed or cooked plainly, and a very small quantity of stock suffices for a good number if they are laid flat in a stewpan, as it only need half cover them. A little bacon should be put at the bottom with chopped vegetables, and a sheet of buttered aper, or some bacon be laid over them, n this way they are really less trouble than roasting, and will be free from dryness. When done, they may be glazed, then dished in a row on a croilton, or potato block, with a garnish of cress. The gravy is to be finished off in the usual way—wine or other ingredients being added just according to the nature of the birds. Another nice dish may be had by putting the birds on a dish with some fried potatoes round them, and finishing with little croutons spread with tomato butter. Many rice dishes are excellent with small birds ; they may be put upon a bed of rice, or it can be arranged as a border, and macaroni is also very good. Grilled tomatoes, sliced, are always useful as a garnish. Reference to dishes of larger birds will suggest other methods of serving them. Birds, Small, in Cases,—Birds that have been either roasted or braised look nice when served in small oval cases of china or paper. If they are not stuffed before cooking, a little forcemeat may be cooked and put in the bottoms of the cases. The bird is then placed on the top, and for those of a homely sort some brown sauce over, and a sprinkling of fried crumbs finishes the dish: or a well-made tomato puree can be used in place of brown sauce. Cost, variable. Another way.—If the birds are boned and stuffed, a little potato puree can be put at the bottoms of the cases,389 GAME AND POULTRY. and more on tho top. These then want browning in a quick oven, any gravy being served separately. Another uay.—French rolls, cut through, and fried after hollowing, form suitable eases; each half takes a small bird. The bottom and sides should be coated with forcemeat or a little thick sauce, and the rolls should be nicely arranged on a hot dish, with a garnish of salad. (See Dresden Patties, Croutons, and Ououstades.) Black Cock, Roasted.—This bird is hard, dr)’, and flavourless, if not well hung; but the flavour is remarkably fine when it has been kept until it shows signs of having been hung enough. Pick and draw, but do not wash the inside; a dry cloth will be all that is necessary. Truss it like a fowl. Some like the head under the wing, but the former mode is more general. Place it before a brisk fire, and baste unsparingly with butter till done. It will take nearly one hour, if a fine bird, but three-quarters of an hour will be enough forone of moderate size. Dip a piece of thick toast into a little lemon juice, and lay it in the dripping pan under the bird ten minutes before it is to be taken from the fire. Serve with the toast under, and a rich brown gravy and bread sauce. Cost, about 6b. per brace; but English birds are often higher, while the foreign game which succeeds the English, is sometimes to be had much cheaper. Black Cock, Stewed.—Joint the black cock in the same way as an ordinary fowl, and fry in plenty of butter until nicely browned, with a clove of garlic, which should be removed before the stewing is commenced. Put a small wineglassful of stock and two of port, and a seasoning of salt and pepper into the frying-pan with the butter, make a nice gravy, then put the black cock into a stewpan, pour the gravy over, and simmer very gently about half an hour, or until tender. Serve the meat high on the dish, and the gravy with sippets of toast around it. Old birds are best done in this way ; thoy require more time. Cost, as above. Black cock can also be served with watercress, or in other ways given for pheasant. A very good salmi may be made from black game. Capercailzie Fdte.—Required: a capercailzie,. butter, meat, wine, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about 7s., but variable. For this a young bird is very necessary; if old it will bo tough, and, owing to the nature of its food, very unpalatable also. Let it hang for a short time, then proceed as follows. Cut off the flesh, or bone the bird entirely, and divide the flesh into dice ; fry these a pale colour in good butter, then season with a little light wine and vinegar, a small onion, chopped, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, and leave for a few hours. Pass through a mincer four ounces of veal, the same of pork, and half a pound of beef ; mix in five ounces of bread- crumbs, seasoning to taste, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, cut small, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Grease a pate mould well, put some sliced bacon at tho bottom and sides, and pack in the meat and seasoning in alternate layers ; press them in well. Put more bacon on the top, and pour over some light wine, as much as it will absorb. Let it stand for a few hours, first placing slices of lemon over, then cover it well, and cook it in a water bath for three to four hours. When done, take away the lemon, add a little more wine in which a morsel of gelatine has been dissolved, and serve when quite cold. Capercailzie, Roasted. (See Grouse.)—Roast in the same way, with due allowance for the size of the bird. Cost, about 3s. to 4s.; sometimes more. Chickens.—These may be had all tho year round. No form of animal food is so tender and digestible as the flesh of a chicken. Choose dark-legged ones for roasting, and singe them, as it makes the flesh firmer. (For recipes390 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. other than those given in the following paragraphs, see Fowl; also the section on Invalid Cookeiiy. In the latter aro some dishes that may he served at the family table, where children or delicate persons have to be considered.) The cost of chickens is variable ; the quality rules it to an extent, but the weather, and other “ markets ”-(as when game is scarce) make a good deal of difference to the poultry market. Generally, chickens are the dearest in the spring, and cheapest towards the end of the year ; from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. may be given as average prices. Chicken and Artichokes.— Required: a chicken, artichoke bot- toms, puree, and sauce. Cost, about 6s. Gd. Take a tin of artichoko bottoms, heat them, and place them round a hot dish. Pom- over them some melted butter. In the middle of the dish put an artichoke puree, and dish a boiled or stowed bird on it. Pour more melted butter over, and sprinkle the breast with the cooked liver, sieved, and a little chopped fennel or parsley. Egg sauce is also very good with the above, and many other purees can be so served in the centre of the dish. Chicken, Boiled. — A boiled chicken should be compact in appear- ance, beautifully white, and served with a good sauco. Under the head of Poultry, Boiled, are full directions for the method. The nicest sauces should be selected, where expense is not an object, for a hot bird; such as supreme, veloutd, volaillo, &c. ; and for a cold bird we recommend any of the delicate sauces into which cream enters. If a vegetable sauce, as celery, is chosen, it should be as good as possible ; creamy, nice in colour, and delicately flavoured. The same is true of a puree. .Time, in proportion to size; from half-an- hour to forty minutes on an average ; but a fine bird will take longer. (See Chicken, Roasted ) The breast always looks nicer, supposing the sauce to bo white, for some little garnish; chopped parsley, sieved egg yolk,sieved liver, &c., according to- taste and the nature of the sauce. Chicken Cutlets, French.— Required; a chicken, bread, cheese, seasoning, egg, sauce, and a vegetable puree. Cost, from 3s. Gd. upwards, exclusive of the vegetables. Prepare these by jointing and skin- ning a cooked bird. Season some bread-crumbs with grated Parmesan cheese; sprinkle the chicken with cayenne, ground mace or nutmeg, and a little white pepper; cover with beaten egg and some of the crumbs; repeat this in half-an-hour; then fry them brown, and sprinkle with grated cheese. Dish round a pureo of sorrel or spinach, and send some white sauce, made from the chicken bones and flavoured with cheese, to table with them. Another way.—Season the crumbs with herbs, as varied as possible, and serve with sauce herbace, or a nice cold sauce; see recipes. Chicken, Devilled.—Required: a chicken, butter, and seasoning as be- low. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Gd., accord- ing to the season and size of bird. Mix together butter, French andEng- lish mustard, a morsel of anchovy paste, a dust of cayenne and white pepper, a pinch of salt, and some grated lemon peel. The mixture should be creamy ; the quantity of seasoning is best regu- lated by taste; some may like the addition of chutney. (See other recipes for devilled meats.) Skin and score the flesh of a cooked bird, and rub the paste in an hour or two before it is wanted. Then dip in oil or clarified butter, and broil or grill, and serve very hot, on a dish paper or napkin. Chicken, Fricasseed (American),—Required : a chicken, stock, seasoning, thickening, eggs, and pork, as below. Cost, about 4s. Cut up a nice chicken into joints; cover it with warm white stock or water; add three quarters of a pound of pickled pork, and boil up (bring to the boil gentLv), then put. in some chopped391 GAME AND POULTRY. parsley, a large onion, minced and scalded, and some white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Go on cooking until tender, an hour is the average, then stir in half a cup of cream, a good tablespoonful and a half of flour mixed with milk to a paste, and more season- ing if needed. Boil up for ten minutes, stir in an ounce of butter, and two raw eggs, and serve in a minute or two on a very hot dish. Fowls, if quite old, may be made tender this way. They should be covered with cold stock, and the pork should be put in when they are half done; they may take from two to four hours, but with care will yield a savoury and excellent dish. The success of the dish will be more certain if the joints be laid in lemon juice for an hour before cooking: in this case, the cream, flour, and eggs, should be separately heated (the cream and flour first boiled together), and the contents of the two pans well amalga- mated just before sending to table. This is simply to prevent the curdling of the sauce, owing to the presence of lemon juice. Chicken, Fried.—Required : a chicken,egg,crumbs, seasoning, and gar- nish. Co3t, from 3s. upwards on average. Steam a chicken, whole, until three parts done ; let it get cold, then joint it. Melt some oil, butter, or clarified fat in a frying-pan ; let it heat in the usual way, then put in the chicken, which should be coated with egg and fine cracker crumbs, mixed with seasoning. Turn the pieces over until brown and crisp ; pile them on a hot napkin laid on a dish ; fry a few sprig3 of parsley, and garnish the chicken with it. A still better way is to use a pan of fat, in which immersion for a few seconds only is required. The chicken should then be steamed until nearly done. For a very superior dish remove the skin. Chicken, Fried ^American). —Required : a chicken, some pork, a gill each of cream and milk, and seasoning. Cost, about 3s. For this the bird must be very young ; much younger than those that are usually sold in poulterers’ shops ; so tender, in fact, that the bones could almost be eaten as readily as the chicken. After washing and drying, joint it, and flour well. Fry some strips of fat, salt pork, until plenty of fat to fry the chicken has run out. Put in the chicken, and turn it about until both sides are well browned. Make gravy in the pan by boiling up cream and milk, with flour and chop- ped parsley ; pour this over, and serve hot. .The sauce can be omitted if preferred. Chicken and Macaroni, Moulded.—Required: six ounces of cooked chicken, three ounces of boiled ham or bacon, three ounces of boiled tongue, calf’s or sheep’s, three ounces and a half of pipe macaroni, eggs, cream, stock, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. lOd. • Mince all the meat together; boil down the chicken bones, and cook the macaroni in the liquor thus obtained until half done; then cut it up, and add it to the meat. Season nicely according to taste. Add two beaten'eggs, and half a gill of cream, with a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs soaked-in stock. Put the mixture in aplain mould, well buttered; cover with paper, and cook in half its depth of boiling water until firm, about fifty minutes. Turn out, and pour round it any sauce such as would be served with boiled fowls: oyster, celery, or mushroom will be found excellent; so is liver and lemon sauce, or a plain white sauce, made from the bonos and skin, will better suit some tastes. The chicken liquor will come in for soup; it will gain rather than lose by the boilingof themnearoni. Vermicelli can be used; it wants but a few minutes’ preliminary boiling. Chicken, Marinaded and Fried.— Cut a cold roasted chicken into neat joints, season thorn woll with salt and cayenne, strow ovor thorn chopped onion and parsley, and soak (h ni for an hour in equal parts of392 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. lemon juice and oil. Turn them fre- quently. Drain them, and dip each piece in good frying batter, and plunge into hot fat, enough to produce a golden brown, crisp coating, almost instantly. Garnish with fried parsley, and dish on a napkin. Cost, about 4s. Chicken, with Mushroom Fur6e.—Required : a chicken, sauce as below, a puree of mushrooms, croft- tons and bacon. Cost, about 5s. Boil the trimmings of a chicken with a morsel of ham, a few slices of vegetables, and a sprig of thyme and parsley, in a quart of water until reduced to a gill. Strain, and mix with it a gill of cream, boiling. Have ready a good-sized chicken, boiled ; pour the sauce over— it may be thickened with arrowroot or roux, just as preferred. A good deal of this will run on to the dish. Then pour over the chicken some thick, creamy, mushroom puree. (See recipe in chapter on Dkessed Vegetables.) Prepare some little crofttons; coat them with the mushroom puree, and put on each a little pile of cooked bacon, cut small, and mixed with the liver of the bird, cooked and sieved. Put a bit of parsley on each, and use them for garnishing—some on the breast, the rest on the dish. A fowl is excellent thus served ; it can be stuffed with forcemeat, mushroom or herb, if liked. Time to boil the chicken, from fort)' minutes ; less if small. Chicken in Rice.—Required: a chicken, some milk, and white sauce, a teacupful of rice, garnish and season- ing as below. Cost, about 4s. Wash and blanch the rice, then cook it in milk to cover, with a little salt, some white peppercorns, and a blade of mace. When the milk is absorbed, put a gill of sauce, economical be- chamel. Add to it some cooked, lean ham in dice, or passed through a min- cer, a couple of hard-boiled eggs in dice, and a tablespoonful of choppod parsley. Boil a chicken, cut it up while hot, and mask it with bechamel, or good white sauce. Pile it up, and form a wall of rice round it. Put the best joints at the top. This is econo- mical and excellent. It may be much elaborated by garnishing the top with more eggs, and fancy-shaped pieces of ham, warmed between two plates over boiling water, or with truffles. The rice will require an hour and a half to two hours. The chicken will take from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Both must be ready at the same time. Chicken and Rice (Spanish). —Required: a chicken, a gill of olive oil, a couple of onions, half a pound of rice, a pint of stock, salt and red popper, tomatoes, and a bead of garlic. Cost, about 3s. 9d. Make the oil hot, cut up the best parts of the bird and cook it in the oil to a pale brown, make stock with inferior portions. The onions, with the tomatoes, a couple or three, are to be fried a little in another pan. Then the whole, with the washed rice, are to be boiled until tender; the liquor should be absorbed by the rice, which must be perfectly soft. This needs care; the best way to avoid burning is to set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, after all the materials are mixed; or to use a double sauce- pan. Any nice plain stock, may be used, but white stock, as No. 9, is the best. Chicken, Roasted.—A young chicken wants very careful handling; the flesh is tender and soon tears; indeed, the entire appearance may be readily spoilt unless this be remem- bered in the plucking and trussing. No stuffing is needed, though somo prefer it; then a delicately-flavoured forcemeat should be used. A lump of butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and some powdered herbs if liked, should be put in when not stuffed. Truss just like a fowl, and cover the breast with greased paper. Baste well, and let the tint acquired be a very delicate, even brown. Froth it nicely in the usual way, but take especial care that the breast is not dried. Time, very variable; a small bird may be393 GAME AND POULTRY. done in twenty to thirty minutes; a fine one—a chicken in point of age, hut a fowl with respect to size—may take three-quarters of an hour or longer. Serve and carve like a fowl, unless very small, then cut up pigeon-fashion. Cost, from 2s. Gd. to 3s. 6d. Anothei• icay.—Boil the liver with some herbs in chicken stock; pound it with a boned anchovy, the grated peel of a lemon, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and a little pepper, and stir it into half a pint of good melted butter; put in a tablespoonful of lemon juice last thing. Pour this over the chicken, and garnish with lemons in slices. Chicken and Tomatoes.—Re- quired : a chicken, white sauce, tomato butter, whole tomatoes, bacon, and croutons. Cost, about 5s. to os. 6d. Boil a chicken, and pour over it some rich white sauce, thick enough to coat it. Prepare some tomato butter, and while hot, decorate the bird, letting the white sauce show through. Cut some round croutons, and lay on each a small slice of cooked bacon the same size, and coat them with the tomato butter. Put these round the chicken,- with small whole tomatoes, nicely fried or stewed, in between. This is a Very delicate and much-liked dish. Cygnet, to Roast.—Required : a cygnet, stuffing and gravy as below, and some red currant jelly. Cost, un- certain, the birds being seldom sold. Truss this bird in the same way as a goose. Make a stuffing of three pounds of beef, fat and lean together, chop it small with three boiled onions, add three ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, and a whole nutmeg grated. Pound it smoothly in a mortar, stuff the cygnet, and sow it up securely to prevent the gravy escaping. The amount of stuff- ing must be in proportion to the size of the bird. It is generally cooked in the same way as haunch of venison, with a thick crust over it, but this is unnecessary. The gravy may be kept by covering it with paper from tho outset, heating it gradually through, basting it patiently and thoroughly, and when it is nearly finished removing the paper, and bringing it near the fire to brown. Send it to table with a sauce made of equal quantities of good wine and beef gravy. Red currant jelly, hot and cold, should also be served with it. Cygnets should be roasted at or before Christmas, after which time they' decidedly deteriorate in quality. They make a very hand- some and delicious dish. Time to roast, from two to three hours on an average. Many years ago the swan was regarded as a very fashionable dish ; only now and then does it ap- pear at modem tables. The flesh is highly appreciated, as a rule. Only young birds, or cygnets, are chosen for cooking. Buck.—A full breast, supple feet, and clear skin, should be sought in a duck. “ A young farmyard duck, fat- tened at liberty, but cleansed by being shut up for two or three days, and fed on barley-meal and water ” is said to be the best. 'Two small, young ducks make a better dish than one large, hard- fleshed drake, which, as a rule, is most fit for a stew. Ducks should hang for a few days when the weather permits. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 4s. each for ducks. Ducklings (or young ducks), are a little less, except early in the year, but the price varies according to the quality and season. Size and weight, combined with youth, are aimed at in feeding for the table. Duck, to Carve.—In carving a duck, due regard must he had to its size and condition; a large, fat duck may be cut up like a goose, viz., in thin slices from the breast, then the wings are removed; the carver should, however, leave part of the side of tho breast attached to each wing. Next the legs are cut off, then the neck-bone. The breast-bone is separated by cutting through the sides, and tho back-bono is divided in two by cutting downwards. But in the case of a poor, skinny duck, to attempt to cut slices from tho breast394 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. is to betray its condition; then the wings should come off at starting. With each helping some stuffing should be served, the skin being first cut across between the logs, that it may be taken out with a spoon. Duck, Boiled.—“ A duck boiled is a duck spoiled,” is an old proverb, but had the originator lived in the north of Wales it never would have been uttered. There they boil ducks often and well, but they salt them first, and servo them smothered with onion sauce. Time to simmer gently, thirty to forty minutes. Duck, Boned and Stuffed.— Required : a duck, stuffing, a chestnut puree, and some wine. Cost, from 4s. to 5s., according to season. This must be boned carefully, or the skin will break. The breast only may be boned if preferred. The stuffing may bo one of the usual kinds given for duck, or it can be composed of veal sausage meat, with a fourth its weight of suet, the same of bread-crumbs, and well fla- voured with mixed herbs and chives, then made into a moist paste with cream and the yolk of a raw egg. It should then be braised, or very nicely roasted. Put the bones on with a quart of water, the same herbs used in the stuffing, some peppercorns, and a bit of lean ham, and stew down to half a pint. When the duck is done, put round it a rich puree of chestnuts, moistened with some of the gravy ; the rest is to bo thickened, and flavoured with half a glass of sherry, and served in a tureen. Duck, Braised, witli Green Peas.—Required : a duck, peas* onions, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 3s. fid. to 4s. Prepare and cook as for turnips (see the following recipe), using green peas instead of the small slices of turnips. Fry two onions in hutter till they are of a pale brown, and boil thorn to a thick sauce, with some of the gravy from the duck. Season with salt and pepper, and servo with the peas laid under the duck, and the gravy over. Time, one hour for duck; peas, half an hour. Use one quart of peas. Duck, Braised, with Tur- nips.—Required : a duck, a few slices of bacon, seasoning, vegetables, wine, butter, &c., as below. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. fid. Prepare a duck as if for roasting. Line a small pan just large enough for the duck, with slices of bacon. Strew over the bottom a little parsley, chives, thyme, and lemon peel. Lay in the duck, and add a carrot cut into strips, an cnion stuck with three cloves, some pepper and stock, with a glass of white wine. Baste frequently, and simmer an hour or till done. Fry some slices of turnip in butter to a light brown, drain, and add them to the stewpan, after removing the duck, which should be kept hot. When the turnips are tender remove them and strain tho gravy, thickening with a little roux or browned flour. Put the duck on a dish, with the hot gravy over, and garnish with the turnips. Duck, with Burgundy.—Roast a nice duck as usual, but do not 6tuff it. When it comes to table, cut it across in several places, breast, legs, and wings, and sprinkle a pinch of salt, white pepper, grated lemon peel, and cayenne into tho furrows. Havo ready a gill of good Burgundy, heated to prevent chilling the duck, and pour it slowly over the bird. Cover for one minute after basting a few times with the wine and gravy, then serve. Those to whom this dish is novel will find it worth trying. The gravy should be good. Stock Ko. lfi or 17 may be used for the-foundation.; see ..Gravy, for Ducks; and add the flavouring ingredients therein mentioned ; thicken, with brown roux, and when boiled up as thick as good cream, add half a gill of Burgundy to a pint of gravy. Almost needless to add, the duck must come to table piping hot, and the395 GAME AND POULTRY. cover should be well heated; should it become chilled by waiting it will be spoilt. Cost, about 4s. to 4s. Cd. Duck, with. Burta. (See Fowl and Burta.)—A duck cooked in any approved fashion is very good eating served with the preparation of rice given in the recipe named. Many other rice dishes given in a later chapter can be served with duck. Duck, with Cabbage.—Re- quired : a duck, a cabbage, a faw ounces of fat bacon, and lean ham, abont half a pound of sausages, seasoning, vege- tables, and stock as under. Cost, about 4s. to 4s. 6d. First put a young cabbage in boil- ing water, salted; in five minutes drain and press it. Put some fat bacon in a stewpan to cover the bottom; brown a trussed duck in it, put a bit of lean ham under, after browning, with cabbage on, then put the duck in with more cabbage over, and some little sausages round it. Put sweet herbs in to flavour, with cloves and peppercorns, a slice or two of onion, and carrot and turnip if handy. Moisten with a little stock or gravy, cover, and cook until done, turning the sausages a3 required. Serve with the ham in strips laid with the sausages round the duck. The cabbage should be put under the duck. This dish requires care; it is then much nicer than might be imagined from the reading of the recipe. Duck, Devilled (French),— Required : a duck, gravy, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 3s. to 4 s. on an average. Cut a very tender aluck straight down the middle. Prick tho flesh all over with a skewer; and rub into it some French -mustard, cayenne, white, pepper, salt, and hot ehutnoy. Broil it very steadily at a clear fire for twenty to thirty minutes. It must be brushed over with oil or butter from time to time. Have ready a gravy made from equal measures of good stock and wine, and to half a pint add a pinch of salt and sugar, a tablcspoonf ul of lemon pickle, and a tea- spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Boil up, and strain over the duck. Garnish the dish with .watercress. A duck may be left whole, and seasoned in the same way, then roasted or braised, tho same gravy being used. In almost any way it wall commend itself to those who appreciate piquant dishes. Or it may be left whole and broiled, and instead of serving gravy with it, send some tartaro sauce or tomato butter to table, and if liked, some apple puree, made by mixing a gill of apple sauce with a teaspoonful of curry paste, a tablespoonful of thick brown sauce, and a small onion fried and chopped. Any sort of hot pickles' may go to table with devilled cluck. Sweet mango chutney is also a very good relish. Duck Giblets.—Prepare these by taking the gall bag from the liver, and any green-looking portion away; cut through the gizzard gently, and peel off the outside, which is the part used (the inside is a bag which has to bo thrown away; the contents of -it arc little stones, and if cut into, the wash-- ing of the inter-part is more difficult). Scald tho head, and remove eves and bill; pick and wash it well, also tho other parts, pinions and neck, &c. Cut them - up small, and then proceed ns- dir.ected for duck gravy ; or they will make a pie, which see. If used for gravy, they can be served in sauce or gravy as a separate dish; that is to say, after some of the goodness and flavour have been extracted by tho gravy which is to be served with tho roast duck, the giblets are by no means exhausted, as woidd be a piece of gravy bcef- after the samo treatment. JEyen if .served with only a little stock or gravy to. moisten them, with soino apple Sailed ibid fried onipps, they arc very good eating. (Sec also Goosk Giblets, aivl Dick, Roasted, Ameri- can.) Duck Giblets, Devilled.—Cook the giblets until almost done, then take them up, and score them ; rub inUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 396 a little ginger, cayenne, and mustard ; re-heat them in a little sauce or gravy, and serve very hot. Dusk, Hashed.—Required : the remains of a duck, macaroni, cheese, tomato pulp, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, exclusive of the duck, about Is. This is a simple and savoury dish. Mix together enough gravy (served with the duck) and tomato pulp to cover the pieces, which should bo cut up neatly. Heat all together ; the sauce first, then put in the duck. For half a duck, stir in first before serving seasoning to taste, and a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Put a border of boiled macaroni round the dish; over this pour a little cheese sauce and put the duck and sauce in the middle. There should be only enough sauce to coat the joints, and it should be as thick as good cream. Brown roux is the best thickening for it. Another way.—Fry a good-sized onion, a bay leaf and some parsley; add a pint of stock, good, such as No. 4 ; cook for a few minutes, put in a tomato broken up, and cook for ten minutes more. Thicken with roux, then pass through a sieve. Re-heat half or throe parts of a duck in this, and put round the dish some oval crofttons, spread with brown onion sauce flavoured with powdered sago. Duck, Hashed, Rich.—Make enough olive sauce to cover the joints, tho skin being first taken off, and used in making the sauce. Let the duck heat through in the sauce, and serve in a ring of fried bread. Garnish with olives and croutons. Duck Hot Pot.—Required : a duck, a dozen little dumplings, a dozen potatoes of medium size, three large apples, one onion, seasoning, and gravy. Cost, about 4 s. Cut up the duck ; see that it is very clean; half cook and slice the pota- toes, scald and chop the onion, and grato or chop the apples. Make the dumplings from good suet crust, the size of a walnut. Butter a hot pot dish very liberally; put the above in layers, having potatoes bottom, then duck with onions and apples, and salt and pepper; then dumplings here and there, and so on until the top is reached; that must be formed of potatoes. Pour gravy from the giblets, stewed to rays, over all. Cover the pot, and cook like a jugged hare, in a pan of boiling water, for two hours or rather more. Turn out in a hot dish, and put all round some more potatoes, parboiled, and finished by browning in a good oven. More dumplings will also be an acquisition if the party be a large one, composed of children. Another way.—This is very superior to the above. Here and there, on every layer, put a few strips of pickled pork, and sprinkle the whole with a little sage and parsley—very little, or it will be too strong; a morsel of nutmeg further improves it. These dishes are similar to the American pot pies, and very good they will be found. Duck, with Olive Sauce.— A roasted duck with olivo sauce (for which see recipe) is a popular dish. Olive gravy is also very good; it can be made by preparing the olives as directed for sauce, and adding them to the ordinary gravy; or a very good gravy can be obtained by adding a teaspoonful of roux to a pint of stock, No. 16, olives being used in the same way. Cost of duck, 2s. 6d. to 4s., according to season. Duck, Roasted.—If not already done by the poulterer, the bird must be picked, singed, and emptied; the head and neck removed, but the feet left on ; these should be held in boil- ing water to make the skin peol off easily. The inside should be rinsed and dried, and the outside wiped with a clean cloth. The pinions should be cut off at the first joint, and the feet twisted round on the back of the bird, so that they spread out fan shape. By breaking the back-bone the bird will bo firmor on the dish when served. The nicer it is trussed the plumperGAME AND POULTRY. 397 the breast will look. Ducks aro stuffed in the body like geese, and finished off in the same way ; the loose piece of skin at the neck end is folded over the back. After twisting the feet under the body, take a skewer, and put it in the tip of the wing-bone, and through the leg on one side, then through the body, and out at the cor- responding parts of the wing and legs on the other side. Now pass a string round the lower joints of the legs; twist each end round the points of the skewer, and tie across the back, draw- ing it tightly. Put the duck down to a good tire, and roast according to size, plentiful basting being very impoitant. The duck should be brown and nicely frothed. Time, from forty-five minutes to an hour and a quarter, for fat ducks fully grown. Cost, from 3s. to 4s. or more. Duck, Roasted, American.— Prepare some stuffing of the sage and onion type, but make it very mild, using plenty of bread-crumbs soaked in cream, and some scalded onions (or parboil them in milk), in small pro- portion, with a very little sage. While the duck is roasting, the giblets should be stewing, but they must go on an hour and a half before the duck. When done, cut the giblets very small (the pieces at starting should be the usual size), thicken the gravy in which they were stewed so that it looks like a thick mince; add a spoonful of good port, and serve on the dish with the duck. Jiend some jelly to table—black or rod currant, or grape or cranberry. The stock or gravy for stewing the giblets should be brown. Duck, Roasted, with Apple Jelly .—Do not stuff the duck ; send good gravy to table with it, and in a sauce-boat some melted apple jelly. It must be of good flavour, and not over-sweet; the dish will then be found very delicious. By way of a change, tomato jelly may be similarly served. A spoonful of either of the above- named jellies, added to a tureen of gravy, may be substituted when economy has to be considered. Cost, from 4s. upwards. Duck, Salmi of.—Eequired: a duck, some bread, half a pint of salmi sauce (see recipe), and garnish and seasoning as below'. Cost, 3s. Gd. to 4s. 6d. Boast the duck until nearly done with some slices of bread under it; then take it down, and joint it. Cover the pieces with salmi sauce, and let them simmer for ten minutes, or more if necessary. Dish in a pile, and garnish with the bread cut in shapes, and some glazed onions. Another good salmi is made by laying the joints of a cold duck in hot tomato sauce to cover them. It should be made from tomato pulp, mixed with a little stock obtained from the trimmings of the duck; a morsel of glaze is to be stirred in, and a good seasoning of cayenne and lemon juice added. This should just coat the duck, and a garnish of little toma- toes and button mushrooms, both fried and glazed, or braised, are a great improvement. Duck, Salmi of, with. Salad. —Boast partially a young duck; do not stuff it. Joint and re-heat it in a little stock, No. 16 or 17 ; flavour with good Madeira, and thicken a little with brown roux. Serve with the sauce over, and send to table a nice fruit salad—cherry, strawberry, or melon. Such may also be served with roasted ducks. Time, to roast, about twenty minutes; to simmer, twenty minutes or more. Cost, from 3s. Gd. to 4s. 6d. Duck, Stewed, a la Carring- ton.—Eequired : a duck, larding bacon, stock, chestnuts, wine, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 4s. upwards on an average. Lard the breast of a duck with bacon, and roast it for twenty minutes, supposing it to be a full-grown tender bird; then tako it down. Put in a stewpnn a pint of good stock, No. 6 or 7 ; add two dozen or more of roasted chestnuts, peeled, a largo onion, fried in butter and sliced, somo parsley398 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and thyme, and a sage leaf. Lay the duck in, give twenty to thirty minutes’ cooking, basting and turning often. Then dish the duck, and glaze it well. Thicken the gravy with roux, and flavour it with a glass of port; put the chestnuts round the duck, and strain the gravy into a hot boat. Claret may be used in place of port. Be sure to make the surface crisp, but take care not to dry the breast by exposure to fierce heat, either in the oven, or before the fire. It is better to use a sala- mander, or a substitute, otherwise colour is often gained at the expense of the best part of the bird. A fruit salad goes well with this (see previous recipe); or serve a dish of oranges with it, a salad or compote (see recipes). Ducklings.—These can be cooked and served like ducks ; when stuffed the stuffing should be mild. Any of tho above-named sauces may go to table with them. Green peas, w’hole, or in a puree are excellent with them, so are other green vegetables. A good puree of green haricots (see recipes) is nice for a change; if the ducks are stuffed, the puree should be flavoured with sage, or any other herb used in the stuffing. A puree of carrots is another good accompaniment, or braised carrots may be substituted. Potatoes dressed nicely, as for game, likewise go well with ducks, and asparagus is a dainty adjunct. , Ducks’ Divers, Pat4 of.—This is made in Franco and elsewhere, and known as pate de foie do canard. It is used much in tho same way as tho pate de foie gras (goose liver pate). It is rather darker in colour, and the fat that surrounds it will be. found rich, and may be used in potted meats of game, &c., instead of some of the but- ter ; or it can take the placo of cream in making purees of some kinds. Tho liver may bo sliced, and served alone, or placed on a dish alternately with cold duck (in slices), and garnished with cress, parsley, &c. To various little dishes made from tho remnants of game and poultry, some of the pate may be added; a small quantity imparts great richness. Ducks, Sauces for.—In ad- dition to those named in the foregoing recipes, may be noted others, as Italian. Madeira, and rich tomato. A very good one (that can also be served with wild duck) is obtained by adding to a tureen of brown gravy a tablespoonful or so of Seville orange jelly. This resembles good orange marmalade in flavour, but is clear, like apple jelly. Many would prefer this to the gravy made from the juice of the Seville orange in tho usual way. When this is served, an orange salad should go to table with the ducks ; or an orange compote is equally suitable. Fieldfares, Roasted.—Truss and cook like a partridge, arid serve in the same way. Time, from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. They should be well done, but not over-done. These birds are of the thrush tribe; they pay an annual visit to these islands, coming from the northern parts of Europe. They are seldom to be bought. From November to Feb- ruary is the time when they afford some sport for youthful sportsmen. They are very good in pies and other dishes in which birds of two or three kinds are used. Fowl.—It may be serviceable to point out tho features which should be looked for when a fowl is purchased for cooking purposes, for from the fact that a fowl may be got at any time of (ho year, and that its flesh is gener- ally agreeable to thehealthyand invalid alike, no class of animal food would be more missed, and none is more useful. The weight should be great in pro- portion to size, but an over-fatted fowl is not desirable. The skin should be soft and silky, the breast full and plump. Tho legs of a hen should be smooth, and the spurs of a cock should bo short, and the buttons loose. For though a scraped spur muy sometimes decoivo the purchaser, no amount of399 GAME AND POULTRY. scraping can give a really youthful appearance. Dark-legged fowls are the best for roasting, being more juicy; white-legged are preferred for boiling. Cost, from 2s. 6d. to 4s. on an average. Fowl, Blanquette of.—Re- quired : a fowl, with sauce and stock as under. Cost, from 4s. or 4s. 6d. upwards. This takes its name from the sauce, which masks the fowl, for which there is no need for a special recipe. It is a good white sauce, containing cream, and should be thickened with eggs. Our recipes offer a wide choice of sauces of this description. If a cold fowl be used, it is better boned, though this is optional; all skin is to be re- moved, and only as much sauce as will just coat it is wanted. For a fresh fowl, the cooking consists in stewing the joints in good white stock, which is then c inverted into sauce of the desired kind, and thickened and en- riched as above described. Supposing a fowl to be boned for a good-sized dish of this sort, the bones themselves should be stewed down for stock, then the flavouring ingredients (as added to bechamel and other good sauces) should be added, and the fowl cooked in it. The whole is no more expense, save for the eggs, than would be entailed by a boiled fowl with sauce; the differ- ence is, that by giving the bones plenty of time, a very superior dish is obtained. Fowl, Boiled,—Under Poultiiy, Roiled, will be found directions. The time must be regulated by size, and whether the fowl is stuffed or not. The water cannot- boil too gently; aTtefThe first boil it should scarcely simmer. If a fowl has been boned, the bones should be boiled with it, to- gether with vegetables to give flavour. -Alter the fowl is dished, there will then V: material for sauces and soups.' When sauce is poured over after dish- ing, there should.be enough to cover the breast and the flat part of the dish, nnles.s a puree of some kind is to be poured round. An inferior fowl should not be boiled, nor a dark-fleshed one. During the cooking skim often. Time, about three-quarters of an hour_; ;m hour or more for a large fowl, much longer for an old one. Should the skin break, hide it with the garnish. Cost, from 3s. to 4s , exclusive of sauce. Fowl, Boiled, to Carve.—This is cut up in a similar manner to roast fowl. Care should be taken to cut plenty of the breast meat off with the wings; the knife should be drawn, and much downward pressure avoided, as the flesh is apt to crumble. Sometimes the legs are taken off before the wings. A very large fowl should be served like a turkey, which see. If little sausages be put about the dish, serve one with each portion of fowl. {See Sausages.) Fowl, Boiled, Sauces for.— Among many others we majr instance asparagus, celery, white mushroom, egg, rich oyster, bechamel, veloute, supreme, sauce lierbace, sauce verte, sauce it la Juliette, sauce volaille, tomato, and chestnut, as most likely to meet with general approval; but there are others in this work that might be served when variety is an object. But it must not be forgotten that a boiled fowl is a delicate dish, and no sauce is suitable which would overpower it. A sauce that would improve some mild dishes would spoil a boiled fowl. Fowl, Boned.—We will com- mence with directions for boning a fowl without opening it. It should be plucked, but not drawn. Put it on a table, neck towards you; cut tho neck off, loosen the skin, which is here very elastic, and proceed until the bottom of the breast is reached. Take away tho merrythought, dotaching it very carefully from tho wing-bonos and breast-bone. This is a very diffi- cult stage of the operation. After this, the meat must bo detached from tho ribs and back ; although the bones are still in tho wings, they can be turnedUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 400 back with, the meat, being loose. Next cut carefully from the breast-bone, round to the back. (See remarks under Tubkey, Boned.) The worst part is over when the back and ribs are done; as the boning proceeds, the meat should be rolled back, the knife being kept close to the bones : this, coupled with patience, is the socret. As the hind part is neared, care must be taken that the knife does not slip into the entrails. When the part is reached where the legs join the back, they must be detached at the joints, and this needs care. When both thigh-bones have been separated from the trunk, by still working on, the entire skeleton, minus its legs and wings, will come clean out, and can be removed altogether from what looks very much like a shapeless mass of meat; and the first thought will probably be that it will never again be got into shape. The next thing is to get rid of the en- trails; wash and dry the fowl; wash the liver and gizzard, and put the rib-bones and back-bones by for stock; add to them the rest after the wing-bones and leg-bones have been taken out. Remember to leave the little wing-bone, and the outer drum- stick-bone ; it helps to give the bird its old shape later on. In boning the legs, simply work the knife round the thigh-bones, until the joint is reached where the leg-bone or drumstick begins ; cut through this, and go half way down the drumstick-bone; leave a portion, as above directed, and remove the rest. Now turn the meat back into its old shape, or rather right side out; the old shape must be given by the aid of forcemeat. The first thing is to stuff the hollows made by the removal of the wings and legs. The latter may be made even plumper than they were, if well filled and gentle pressure be used to make them hold as much as possible. Supposing this is to bo filled with forcemeat only, it is not so easy to get it a good shape as it is a turkey that has been filled with a large tongue in addition; and just as that helps the turkey, so will a good-sized calf’s tongue help the fowl. Some will make a better shape of it than others ; the thing is to put as much forcemeat in as it will hold, and to work it with the fingers until it looks shapely. It must now be laid in a buttered cloth, and well tied in all directions to preserve the shape. It should go on in warm stock, and cook gently for two hours or more, then be loft to cool, when it is to be untied, and put on the dish ready for finishing off. Press it firmly on the dish, and wipe it over with a cloth dipped in hot water, then set by to get thoroughly cold, which will take some hours : if possible, leave it all night. In any case it must be what is known as “ stone cold ” before the garnishing is attempted. For the decoration of a boned, stuffed fowl, see Galantine if it is to be served cold. It may be cooked and served hot, in any of the usual ways. Fowl, Boned.—A farmhouse re- cipe :—This is a novel method, or will be to many, of boning a fowl. Sup- posing an old fowl, which would not be tender if introduced at table in any well known form, first put it in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and a little bag, containing some herbs, spices, and slices of fresh vegetables. Put the lid on, and let it simmer from two to four hours until the bones will all come out; take the skin off, put it back in the pan with all the bones, and go on boiling for an hour or two more. Chop up the meat, mix some salt and pepper with it, and a little nutmeg and powdered herbs. Then moisten with some of the strained and well-reduced stock, and press into a tin : when cold it will turn out like brawn, and may be served in the same way. The bones may be again covered with water, and the boiling kept up for several hours; the resulting liquor will make good soup, or may be used for other dishes. In case a cold dish is not required.401 GAME AND POULTRY. a famous curry may be made. After cutting up the meat (do not chop it), make some good curry sauce with some of the liquor, and heat the fowl in it. A gill or less, of cream, is a very decided improvement, and even then the dish is not extravagant, as old fowls can sometimes be bought very cheaply in the country. Fowl, Boned after Opening. —The first thing is to cut the fowl right down from neck to tail, through the back. A fowl ready drawn is wanted. The flesh is then raised on both sides with the point of the knife, until the sockets of the thighs and wings are reached. These may now be boned, as after they are detached the whole of the body may be taken out entirely, leaving only the merrythought and neckbones to be removed. If the pro- cess seems easier that way, the backbone can be cut through as well as the flesh; this may soon be removed, and the operator can then turn about the rest as most convenient. The precise way of boning a fowl when opened is of no importance, for some will manage it in a very different way from others. The thing is to get the meat clear of bones, and however it is accomplished the back, where cut, has to be stitched up afterwards. Thus prepared, fowl is generally used for a Galantine, which nee; or it can be so boned for pies and other dishes, instead of joint- ing it before boning, as some people find the latter the more difficult, though the majority consider it easier. Our recipes, however, include all the methods, so the requirements of all are met. Fowl, Braised, with Toma- toes.—Required: a fowl, wine, and seasoning as below, stock, cream, tomatoes, sausages, and sauce, and some celery. Cost, from 6s. to 6s. on an average. This is a very good dish. Rub the bottom of a stewpan across with a clove of garlic; put in a chopped shalot, a morsel of root ginger, a strip of lemon peel, a grain of cayenne, two cloves, a few peppercorns, the piece of a lemon, and a glass of light wine. Truss a fowl for boiling, lay it in, cover, and let it steam, with a shake now and then, until the moisture is absorbed. Pour in half a pint of white stock (such as No. 9), lay a buttered paper on the breast of the fowl, and cook for an hour, or until tender. Then put in a gill of pure tomato pulp, a pinch of sugar, salt to taste, and a little French mustard. Thicken with two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot. Boil up, pour through a hot strainer—it need not be fine, just to get rid of the spices, &c.—and mix in a half gill of boiling cream, and a few drops of carmine. Pour some of this over the breast of the fowl. Have ready some small pork sausages, coated with thick, white sauce. Place these round the dish, with little heaps of cooked celery, also masked with sauce, in between. Slice some cooked toma- toes, coat these with white sauce and lay them along the breast. Send the rest of the gravy to table in a boat, adding a little more stock to thin it. Veal sausages can be used in place of pork, or herb forcemeat is liked best by some. Fowl and Burta.—Required : a fowl, and a preparation of potatoes as below. Cost, about 5s. on an average. This is an Indian dish. Burta is the name given to the dish of mashed potatoes served with the fowl, which is jointed and sprinkled with curry powder, then fried a delicate brown, drained, and simmered for a short time in chicken gravy. Meanwhile, the potatoes are to be prepared as follows: boil a couplo of pounds of mealy potatoes, break them up with a fork, and mix them with a table- spoonful of very mild onions, chopped and pounded with a green chilli, uud a little pure mustard oil. Then add lemon or lime juice to taste, with salt and pepper. Work the mass until very Bmooth, then form into shape, re-heat, and serve the fowl round it. Garnish with sliced limes or lemons. The402 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flavouring ingredients mixed with tlie potatoes are blended some time before- hand, and put in a cool place. Fowl a la Carlsford. -For this, hone a fowl without opening (see Fowl, Boned), and fill the wings and legs with rich veal forcemeat. Then stuff the body with mushroom forcemeat, and more of that used for the joints, put- ting it in in alternate rolls. Make the fowl a good shape, and roast slowly, or it will burst. Servo with fowl gravy, and a mushroom puree. Cost, from 4s. Gd. to 5s. Fowl, Curried.—The ways of preparing this favourite dish are many : the following method, if first- class curry paste be used, is likely to give satisfaction. Required: a young fowl, medium size, a pint of stock, a tablespoonful each of curry paste and fine rice flour, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme, half a lemon, one onion, chopped, celery, white part, equal in bulk to the onion, half an apple, a teaspoonful of chopped sweet almonds, the same of freshly- grated eocoanut, a few outer strips from a small carrot, a little curry powder, and a gill of cream. Cost, from 4s. Gd. to 5s. Bone and cut up the fowl, see pages 399 and 401, then divide it into square pieces; roll these in the curry powder. Slice the vegetables thinly, try the onions in a little hot fat, then fry the fowl a little; add the herbs and other vegetables, with a strip of lemon peel, and the nuts, also the stock. This should he made from the bones of the fowl in the usual way. Stir to the boil, and go on cooking slowly for half an hour, then mix the rice flour with cold stock; add it, also the curry paste, and a little lemon juice. Boil for a quarter of an hour more, then take up the meat, sieve the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and put it back with salt to taste, cayenne, if needed, and the boil- ing cream. Add the meat to re-heat (it must not boil or the sauce will curdle), then serve as usual with boiled rice. For a largo fowl the stock must b6 increased. Sometimes the onion is objected to in the sauce; in that case take it up after frying in the butter. Use curry fat if at hand. For a plainer dish the cream can be loft out, and ordinary plain white stock- used; but it is really moro economical to bone the joints, if time allows; the bones yield such good gravy, while if not boned, the bones are left upon the plates and wasted. Gooseberries can bo used instead of apple, or a bit of cucumber answers; the lemon juice should then be slightly increased. A morsel of tamarind is good in fowl curries, and any nice chutney may be put in to suit the palate. Fowl with Curried Mush- rooms.—Required : a fowl, some cuiried mushrooms, cream, thickening, and sauce. Cost, from 5s. upwards on an average. Boil a fowl in white stock, and when half done, prepare the mushrooms separately as follows: — Fry a small onion, a bay leaf, and a sprig of parsley in hot butter; add a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of mild curry powder, about the same measure of lemon juice, and half as much grated peel, the same of mango chutney and curry paste, half a pint of liquor from the fowl, the liquor from a tin of mush- rooms, and half the mushrooms, chopped. Cook gently until all can be sieved (the herbs should be taken out), then put bade the sauce with the rest of the mushrooms, whole, a table- spoonful or two of thick cream and’ a little white roux. Cook for ten minutes more, take up the fowl, and dish it; coat with bechamel, and pour the mushroom mixture round. This is a superior dish. A very good one, though much less expense and trouble, may be made by pouring ordinary white sauce over the fowl, and using curried mushrooms as given in the chapter on Dkessbd Vege- tables.GAME AND POULTRY. 403 Fowl Curry, Kofta.—Required : a fowl, curry, suet, egg, stock, milk, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 4s. upwards. Of the varieties of curried dishes served at the diimer tables of Euro- peans in India, tho Kofta or force- meat ball curries, nre as great favourites as any. Once the details are mas- tered, " dishes in endless variety may be produced with strict economy, and exquisite results, and really high- plass curries are obtainable by the employment of such cheap articles as tinned lobster and salmon, and the remnants of joints and poultry. Still, it must be owned that the best of the type result from the use of good poultry, choice meat, and the best of fish. Take a well-grown chicken, and remove the fleshy parts; reduce them to a pulp with the liver, heart, and previously cooked gizzard, using a pestle and mortar. The meat could be minced in a machine, but nothing short of pound- ing would satisfy an Indian cook. Add to each pound of fowl two ounces of good, fresh suet. Make a little strong stock out of the bones, skin, and odds and ends; the best only of the meat must go to make the curry. Add to the pulp some salt, black pepper, any garden herbs to taste, some finely grated crumbs, about two ounces, a very little of the fowl stock, and as much of raw beaten egg as may be needed to make a paste, which can be rolled up into balls the size of a large walnut. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add a tablespoonful of onion paste, and a teaspoonful, or less, of garlic paste, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and a little good vinegar. Stir well, then put in the balls, after they have been well rolled in bread-crumbs. Add a little salt, and turn the balls about to brown; they should be a nice uniform colour. Then put in half a pint of milk, chicken stock, and cocoanut milk, mixed; cover, and cook for a couple of hours. Tho flavour and bouquet of tho dish will bo improved by the addition of two cloves, a bay leaf, a tiny bit of cinnamon, anil a pinch of cayenne. Note.—The onion and garlic pastes are obtained by pounding the ingre- dients. We would add that the gizzard is, in our opinion, preferably omitted from tho forcemeat, and used in the stock. Supposing cooked meat to be used for these delicious little balls, it is nicest if underdone, or there will be atendency to dryness. The time of cooking must of course be shortened, and the tempera- ture kept below boiling point. The stock should be boiling when added, then reduced, and about half the usual quantity only will be needed, as loss by long simmering has not to be allowed for. Fowl Cutlets, Cold.—Required: a fowl, aspic, ham, seasoning, and garnish as below. Cost, from 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d., according to season and the garnish. Take the white meat only of a cooked fowl, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices; it does not matter how small. Cover a baking tin with a thin layer of aspic jelly ; lay on some of the slices, making them flat; then put some finely chopped ham and parsley over ; then more fowl; between each layer of fowl and ham spread a little good white sauce ; this should be nicely seasoned, that it may flavour as well as moisten the meat. Cover with a second layer of aspic, and when quite firm cut out with an oval cutter, the size, say, of an egg. The cutlets should be half an inch thick. Then dip the edges into liquid aspic, and coat a third of the cutlets — edges only — with Chopped parsley and pickled gherkins, a third with the sieved yolks of some hard-boiled eggs, and tho remainder with the chopped whites mixed with ham. Dish them, overlapping, in one or two rows down a glass or silver dish’ with a garnish of salad; lettuce, cress, endive, &c. These are very nice for outdoor gatherings in tho summer, or for ball suppers and similar occasions. Tho trimmings from tho cutlets, if chopped up, and mixed with tho re-- mainder of the eggs, will make a good mince for sandwiches.404 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Fowl, Galantine.—Prepare the fowl as directed in Fowl, Boned after Opening. Draw the wings and legs inside ; the pinions should be cut off. Make the whole flat, cutting off some of the meat from the legs, and putting it in the thin parts ; press it out well. Then make a forcemeat of veal and ham, or ordinary sausage meat, or truffled sausage meat; spread a layer over half an inch thick, then put strips or slices of cooked ham and tongue, and some pistachio kernels in strips, and then a few truffles, sliced or chopped; or in place of these, hard- boiled eggs are used sometimes; a marbled appearance when cut is wanted, and truffles and pistachios go a long way, though expensive. If no pistachios are handy, use some chopped parsley. Now begin and roll up like a pudding; sew the roll up in a buttered cloth, twist the ends, and tie them like a pudding, and put it in some stock, made several hours before from the bones. Cook it gently, and when it is taken up tie the cloth tighter, after pulling it out; that is, tie it closer up to the fowl. Then put weights on, and leave to get cold. It will then be of a shape which is best described as “bolster like.” Remem- bor that the stitches must be taken out of the back, where sewn up, before serving. Another way.—Make a complete roll of the forcemeat with the strips of tongue, &c., amongst it; lay it on one edge, and roll the fowl up. This is easier, but not so pretty. A galantine is sometimes made by filling the fowl from the neck end, after boning; a good deal of filling may be used ; the ends of the fowl are then sewn up, and the whole finished as above. Now for the decoration. Dish, and wipe the bird with a cloth, and have ready some clear aspic of one or two colours, say brown and pale pink, or brown und pale yellow. Give a coating of the pale colour first, and ornament with cut pieces—to form a pattern—of the darker shade, laying them on before the first coat is set; or the top may be covered with chopped aspic of various colours, laid in rows. The base can be garnished with blocks of aspic and truffles. Or fancy designs may be made by the aid of butter, or ham butter, using a bag with a fine pipe. Then little heaps of salad may be put about the dish; many ideas may be gathered by reference to Salads. For a very elaborate galantine, moulds of aspic, decorated nicely, may be put on the top, and fastened with plated hatelet skewers; truffles, too, look well similarly placed. If proper hatelet moulds cannot be had (these are made purposely for use with the skewers), some varieties of dariole and other moulds answer the purpose. They should be high, and of small circumference only at the widest part, or they look ugly. Those who object to “ piping,” or who cannot get good results, may use savoury custard of various colours. If this is cut out into very small, pretty shapes, exceedingly nice designs may be made by anyone possessed of sufficient taste to arrange them. For a plain galantine, glaze only is used for the surface, with a little piping of white or pink, and some salad at the base. All galantines look nicer if a block of rice or fried bread be put under them in the dish, as they are then more imposing, and the garnish is better displayed. For all the adjuncts, see Index. One word respecting the pressing of the galantine. Avoid undue pressure on one part. A dish or baking sheet should be put on, and weights or flat-irons placed the whole length. A heavy weight at the middle and nothing at the ends is useless. See coloured plate, No. 4. The galantine there shown is glazed, then brushed over with liquid aspic, and dished on a block of rice. The garnish consists of parsley, aspic, lemons, and small shapes of the forcemoat, cooked separately, and cut when cold. Shapes of aspic or savoury custard could be used. Cost varies with the season, and adjuncts employed. The average is Is. 6d. to 2s. per pound. ✓ 'GAME AXD POULTRY. 405 Fowl, Howtowdie.—Required: a fowl, butter, onions, spinach, stock, rice, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, exclusive of truffle, about 4s. 6d. The following is a very old Scotch recipe. Truss a fowl as for boiling, it may be large, if tender; brown it in two or three ounces of butter in a stewpan, turning as required. Then put in a few small onions, a pinch of salt, half a dozen white peppercorns, and a couple of cloves; add three- quarters of a pint of nice white stock, and simmer very slowly for half an hour, then put in more stock, and give another half hour’s cooking. Have some spinach boiled and well pressed; make a border of it on a hot dish. Have also some boiled rice, pressed in little moulds; turn these out on the top of the spinach. Put the fowl in the middle, add more salt to the gravy, and boil it for a minute or two more ; strain some over the fowl, and servo the rest in a boat. The rice shapes may be decorated with pieces of truffle, or little stamped-out slices of tongue. To the foregoing we would add, that in some instances the time allowed for the fowl must be very nearly doubled, if success is to crown one’s efforts. Fowl, to Joint for a Sant6.— These directions may be useful to the inexperienced. The words, “cut up neatly,” are intelligible enough to the experienced cook, but convey but little meaning to others ; and, unless a right start be made, the bird will have a very untidy and ragged appearance when cooked and dished. Take then a fowl which has been picked and singed, and ready for cooking, i.e. drawn but not trussed. Lay it on its side, hold a leg towards you, and pass a sharp knife round the thigh; remove it with a dean cut; turn it over, take the other leg off in the same way ; remove the wings in the usual way, then cut tho breast in two or three pieces across. Trim off any rough parts; put tho back-bone aside. Trim the legs by cutting off the leg-bones just bejow the joint; remove the thigh-bones and tuck in the rough parts, making the legs compact and plump in shape. If the thigh-bone is not removed (and this is optional) be sure to make the legs neat by tucking in any loose flesh. These directions may be carried out in jointing a fowl for many other dishes, or for a pie, but in the case of a fine fowl, it is sometimes necessary to again divide the legs and wings; or the wings may be left entire if cut free from breast meat; then tho breast will make three or four pieces. Fowl A, la Marengo.—Re- quired : a fowl, olive oil, mushrooms, gravy, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, 4s., exclusive of eggs for garnish. Take a tender fowl, joint it, and flour the pieces, using half a tablespoonful of flour. Put some olive oil in a saute pan, from three to five tablespoonfuls, size of the fowl considered; when hot, fry the joints a nice brown. Some time before put on the giblets for gravy (if it can be spared, use also tho back of the fowl); when reduced to three gills, strain it over the fowl, put in a morsel of garlic, a shalot, a dozen button mushrooms, and a little lemon juice. Simmer gently until the fowl is tender; season to taste, arrange the joints in a pyramid, best parts at the top, and put the mushrooms with them. Strain the gravy over, it should be re- duced a little, and for a very good dish, add a little light wine and glaze. The proper garnish consists of fried eggs and triangular shaped croutons, placed alternately round the base. People who object to oil in any form, will substitute butter, but the dish is then quite altered; oil being tho special feature of Fowl a la Marengo. Fowl a la Mayonnaise.—Split a cooked fowl in two, and coat the parts with mayonnaise; or joint it, and do tho same; or serve a boat of mayonnaise, and put some cress or parsley on the dish. (See also Salads.) Cost of fowl, about 3s. or 3s. 6d. Fowl, with Onions.—Fry tho fowl in either of tho ways given for Chicken ; pile up tho joints, andUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 406 sprinkle with fried onions, a palo colour, and very dry; then add a dust of cayenne and salt. Use about four ounces of onions. Fowl, to Pick and Singe.— Take the bird in the left hand, and begin by pulling the feathers out undor the wing; when this side is plucked, turn the bird, proceed in the same way with the other wing, then remove all tho rest of the feathers, leaving only the down. To singe, take the bird by the neck, in the left hand, and by means of a lighted paper, passed quickly over to avoid any scorching, go over the entire surface, not for- getting the down, which will be hid- den from sight after the bird is trussed. If any feathers remain, pull them out; do not burn them off; the singe- ing is intended to remove the down. A better and quicker way is to take tho bird at each end, and hold it over a flame; a little methylated spirit may be burnt on an old plate for the purpose. This is perhaps the best way, especially when several are being dealt wdth. After trussing, if necessary singe again. This iB often wanted when birds are bought, ready trussed, of other than first-class poulterers. Fowl, Pilau, Indian.— Re- quired: a fowl, butter, rice, onions, seasoning, and almonds and sultanas. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. 6d. on an average. Boil a fowl in veal broth, and reserve the liquor in which it is boiled. Put four ounces of butter in a stew- pan, and fry in it two onions, sliced, two cloves, a morsel of cinnamon, and a few peppercorns. When the onions are golden colour, stir in ten ounces of rice; go on stirring with a fork until tho rice has absorbed the butter. Pour in the fowl liquor (it should cover the rice, and reach an inch above it), go on simmering until it is nearly done. Then clear the rice from the centre, and put the fowl in the hollow. Let the rice become very soft, and the moisture be dried up. Then put the fowl in a deep dish, and smother it with the rice. Have some little onions ready boiled, also somo eggs, boiled hard; these should be quartered. Arrange them about the dish, and add somo blanched almonds and sultanas, with a few cloves sprinkled on the top. Tho cinnamon and peppercorns should bo taken out. This is done most easily by tying them in a bit of muslin. The rice should bo washed and dried an hour before frying. Fowl, Pooloot, Indian.—Re- quired : a fowl, stock, rice, onions, eggs, bacon, &c., as below. Cost, about 4s. 6d. Truss a fowl in tho ordinary way for boiling. Have roady a quai-t of white stock, and a pound of rice that has been parboiled for five minutes and then drained from the water. Put tho fowl with them into a stewpan over a slow fire. Add some onion juice (pound half a dozen, and extract all their moisture by squeezing them in a thin cloth), a tablespoonful of ground ginger tied in muslin, nnd the juice of a lemon. Boil gently, and whon tho fowl is sufficiently done, keep it warm and dry the rice beforo tho firo. Have ready three or four onions, sliced and nicely fifed in butter. Cut up the fowl into neat pieces, and fry these in the same butter, then pile the rice in the centre of a dish; tho, joints of fowl on the top, and the sliced onions next the fowl, lightly scattered. Strew stewed cardamoms and peppercorns over all. Garnish with fried curled bacon and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour, unless" the fowl be large. During tho boiling, more stock must bo" added; by degrees as required. Great care-must be exercised to keep the contents of tho pan from burning. It is Well to butter the -bottom of the pan slightly, and it must bo Very often shaken; ,or it can be set at the begin- ning of the cooking in another vessel of boiling water. Fowl a la Remoulade. — Boil a fowl in white stock. Let it407 GAME AND POULTRY. eoil in tho liquor, and do not cut it until cold. It is then to be jointed and skinned. Put the skin and back- bone by for stock, and cut up tho breast ; these slices should be placed on the top. Coat every part, with Remoulade sauce, and garnish nicely with eggs and cooked vegetables, or raw salad. (See Salads.) Cost of fowl, 3s. to 3s. 6d., on an average. Fowl, Roasted.—A fowl for roasting should be picked and singed, firmly trussed, and prepared like a turkey : but while the legs of a turkey need not always he done through (when there is plenty of breast meat to go round), it is safe to assume that those of -a fowl will be cut at table as a rule, and therefore, in order to cook them without over-cooking the breast, great care is needed, and in proportion to its size, the fowl will take longer than the turkey. In many cookery books the time given for roasting a fowl is not enough. When roasted at an open fire, and with almost incessant basting, a fowl takes less time than when laid in a Dutch oven before the fire, and basted only occasionally, because the hot fat assists the looking; and when baked, as perhaps fifty per cent, of the fowls of everyday life are, still longer must be given. The time will vary from fifty minutes to an hour, for a medium sized, to an hour and a quarter or an hour and a half or even longer, for a larger one, its quality and tenderness con- sidered. The method of serving is the same as for turkey. A garnish of watercress only, or some little sausages or forcemeat balls, arc suitable for ordinary dishes: bread sauce and gravy (for which see recipes) are also every- day adjuncts. For various forcemeats, see a ’ later chapter, and for other methods, see Turkey. If the. liver is wanted- lot other purposes, tt cun' be kept. back ; otherwise it is generally put in one wing, and the gizzard in tho other. A roasted fowl, to look as appetising as possible, should be well frothed; give it a dredge with fine, dry flour, at least ten minutes before serving, then baste with butter con- tinue for a minuto or two, and remem- ber that if not as brown as it is liked, a coat of thin glaze willimprovo it. For sauces, sec Turkey ; and many given under Boiled Fowl are equally suited to the roasted bird, the very white, delicate sauces excepted. (See Fowl, to Pick and Singf, and Fowl, to Truss.) Fowl, Roasted (a Normandy dish).—Take the breast-bone from a fine fowl, and fill it with good forcemeat, either ham or veal, wel 1 flavoured with savoury herbs and grated lemon peel. When it is nearly done, and has acquired a light brown tinge, take it dowrn and dip it into fine bread-crumbs, tlt&n into clarified butter, and again into crumbs. Finish the cooking, browning wTell, and serve lemon sauce in one tureen, and fowl gravy mixed with minced parsley in another. Tiny sausage cakes fried, slices of lemon, and bunches of watercress should bo put alternately round the fowl. No gravy or sauce must be poured over it. Cost, from 4s. 6d. upwards. Fowl, Roasted (a simple dish).—This is much liked generally, and is. to be met with in many parts. When the fowl is three-parts cooked, take away the dripping pan, and put another tin or dish under; then begin to baste with batter, lettjng the separate coatings become set until an outer crust of half an inch or so is obtained. The fowl should be kept a fair distance from the.fire, or it will get too brown. When done, after a quarter of an hour's basting, or rather more, send to table with nice gravy. In somo places, little dumplings, or small pancakes made of tho-same batter, aro rolled up and served with it- For the batter, sec Yorkshire Pudding. Cost,from 3s.fid. to 4s. Fowl, Roasted, to Cai-ve. Insert the knife betwoen tho leg and tho body, and cut to the bone; then turn the leg back with the fork, and, if tho bird is not old, tho joint will giveUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 408 way. The wing is next to bo broken off, and this is done in the direction of a to b, only dividing the j oint with the knife. The forequarters having been removed in this way, take off the merry-thought at n, and the neck bones; these last are to be removed by putting the knife in at c, and pressing it, when they will break off from the part that sticks to the breast. Next separate the breast from the body of the fowl, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite down to the tail. Turn the fowl now back upwards; put the knife into the bone midway between Fig. 98.—Roast Fowl, to Carve. the neck and the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and take off very neatly the two side bones, which completes the operation. The breast and wings are considered the best parts of a roast fowl, being very tender, but in young birds the logs are the most juicy. In the case of a capon or large fowl, slices may be cut off the breast, just as is done when carving a turkey. Give part of the liver with each wing, and some stuffing to all, unless objected to. Fowl, Saut6 A la Royal.— Required : a fowl, a few strips of ham, a mushroom, an onion, half a pound of streaky bacon, some stock, parsley, and two ounces of butter. Cost, about 4s. to 4s. 6d. Joint the fowl, put the back and giblets in a saucepan with a pint and a half of water, and the ham, onion, mushroom, and parsley; put in a few peppercorns and a clove, boil gently' until reduced to a gill and a half. Melt the butter in a saute pan, cook the joints until pale brown, shaking often. When it has cooked for twenty minutes strain the stock over, then simmer for fifteen to thirty minutes, according to the age of the fowl. Put in a morsel of glaze. The gravy should only just coat the joints; there should be none to run into the dish. When done, arrange nicely on a hot dish, with a good-sized crouton laid at the bottom ; sprinkle some chopped parsley all over, and put the bacon in little rolls, separately fried, round the base. A few button mushrooms, fried, improve the dish, which is very easily prepared, and a most excellent one. It is suitable for any meal. If served for luncheon or dinner, macaroni, or any nice vege- table may be served with it. Fowl, with Sparghetti.—Re- quired : a young fowl, lour ounces of sparghetti, half a dozen sauce oysters, some wine, sauce, croutons, and season- ing as below. Cost, about 5s. to 5s. 6d. Cut the fowl into joints, season them with pepper and a pinch of herbs, and saute them in oil until pale brown Pour off the fat, and wipe the pan out; put back the fowl, with the oysters and their liquor, the juice of half a lemon, a glass of white wine, a minced sbalot, and a sprig of parsley. Cover and simmer for ten minutes, then add three gills of brown sauce, and cook for half an hour more. Add salt and cayenne to taste, and strain the sauce. Pile the chicken up, and pour the sauce over. Have the sparghetti ready, plainly boiled, then seasoned with a pinch of cayenne and a little parsley, chopped after scalding. Put this round the fowl, and place a few glazed crohtons about the dish; garnish them with a little hot ham puree, or some chopped ham mixed with thick brown sauce. Fowl, with Spinach.—This is well known ; and a puree of endive or salsify, much less known, will be found a very pleasant adjunct to a nicely cooked fowl. When spinach is used, it should be accompanied by fried eggs. Cost, about 4s. 6d, witboufeggs.409 GAME AND POULTRY. Fowl, Steamed, with. Oys- ters.—Required : a fowl, oyster force- meat, and oyster sauce. Cost varies with that of oysters; about os. to 5s. 6d. on an average. A fowl cooked in this way will be full of flavour, and very tender. Fill a young fowl with oyster forcemeat, and lay it in a tin ready for steaming; pour round it a gill of white stock and oyster liquor mixed, then cover and steam until done ; it should be turned a few times and basted with the liquor. Serve with oyster sauce, using the liquor from the tin in making it. The fowl may be stuffed with any sort of stuffing that may be preferred, if oysters are not in season, but the tinned ones do very well. (See recipes under Forcemeats.) Another way.—This is richer, and a really delicious dish. Fill a fine fowl with rich oyster stuffing; rub it all over with lemon juice; wrap it up in a buttered paper, and cook in a tin laid in a steamer; give it an hour and a half, or more if required. Dish it, and pour some white sauce over the breast, and put some little veal and oyster sausages round the dish. Send rich oyster sauce to table in a boat. 1 Fowl may be steamed, and served with any other sauces which usually go with boiled fowls; and we again call attention to a fowl partly cooked by steaming, and finished off by roast- ing or baking, as a very good dish, especially suitable for a fowl past its youth. Fowl a la Steinway. — Re- quired : a fowl, stuffing as umler, stock, quenelles, white and brown' sauces, mushrooms, and gravy. Cost, from 5s. 6d. to 63.; more when fowls are dear. Lard the breast of a fowl, first dipping it in boiling water to make it firm. Put in the body a rich mince of ham and tongue, both cooked, mixed with some button mushrooms cut in dice, and cooked in butter. This should be bound with a few bread-crumbs, a beaten egg, and a little cream; it is to be very delicately seasoned. Put in the butter from the mushrooms. Truss for braising. Then cook it in some pale stock to half its depth, for nearly an hour. Take it down and brown before the fire; glaze nicely, and serve on a hot dish. Put round it some chicken quenelles, masked with white sauce; veal sausages, masked with brown sauce; and mushrooms, glazed after frying. Serve with brown gravy flavoured with the mushroom peelings. Fowl, Stewed and Glazed.— Required: a fowl, gravy, seasoning, sherry, and salad. Cost, about 4s. 6d. on an average. This is a very good dish. A tender fowl or good-sized chicken must bo used for it. Make a gravy from the giblets some hours beforehand ; the usual seasonings, but no thickening, should be added; strain it off, and put half a pint into a clean stewpan. Lay in the fowl, breast up; cover with buttered paper, and stew softly for half an hour to three-quarters; then remove the paper, put into the gravy a heaping tablespoonful of fresh tomato pulp (made by passing a large ripe tomato through a sieve), a glass of sherry, and haP an ounce of glaze. Stir until the glaze is melted, then cover up, and leave for a quarter of an hour, first turning the fowl breast down. Then take it up and glaze the breast, put it in a moder- ate oven for a few minutes while the gravy is seasoned, then pour a little round the fowl, and serve the rest in a boat. Send watercress salad to table. If a chicken, reduce tho time of cooking. Another way. — Instead of adding tomato pulp to tho gravy, put in some brown mushroom puree, or a spoonful of good mushroom ketchup. Another way.—In place of either tomatoes or mushrooms, add to the gravy half a tin of green peas, and the same measure of carrots and turnips, mixed, pea shapes, separately boiled; then put in rather more stock. Fowl, Stewed in a Jar. — Roquired: a fowl, vegetables, bacon,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 410 stock, and seasoning. Cost, variable, old birds being sometimes very cheap. This dish is so little trouble, besides being excellent and economical, and is so well calculated to bring about per- fection (as nearly as possible) in tho case of an old bird, that especial atten- tion is called to it. First, put in the jar, which should be an oval earthen one with a lid, a bed of vegetables of a kind that yield moisture; onions, car- rots, turnips, and celery are good; vegetable marrow may bo added if in season. Let this be an inch thick; then put in a few strips of fat bacon ; next lay on the fowl; put more bacon, then more vegetables; see that the sides as well as the top and bottom of the fowl are covered. Then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put in a good bunch of herbs, and a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, but not a bit of salt. Have ready a cup of stock, made from the giblets by long stewing; no thicken- ing is to be added ; pour this in, put the lid on, and cook in a very slow oven, for as long as may be necessary; if it is just brought to the boil, it could be left in a cool oven all night, and be re- heated for dinner. It can be served hot, with the vegetables and liquor sieved and thickened, and with some sort of white sauce in addition. Or it may be served when cold in either of the ways given; the gravy, &c., will then help to make a tureen of soup. A good sharp sauce will be wanted with it if cold; or a good salad will improve it. Fowl with Tarragon, Boiled. —Prepare a fowl for boiling; chop tho liver, add it to some forcemeat (see recipes), and then put in a suspicion of tarragon; if fresh, the leaves must be blanched and chopped; if dried, see that it is finely powdered. Boil, and pour tarragon sauce over. Serve ham or bacon, or pickled pork with it. Cost, without the bacon or ham, about 4s. Fowl with Tarragon, Boasted.—Stuff as above, and truss for roasting. Make a good brown gravy ; add a little tarragon vinegar, and a sprinkling of freshly-chopped leaves. Garnish with watercress, seasoned with tarragon vinegar, and lemon juice. In preparing the stuffing for both these dishes, the foundation must be free from other herbs: a plain sausage meat may be used, or a still plainer stuffing made as for roast veal, but minus the herbs. In cooking a couple of fowls in either of the above ways, unless it is known that all like tarragon, it is well to omit it in one, or to serve, in addi- tion, some sauce or gravy without tarragon flavouring. Cost, from 4s. to 4s. 6d. on an average. Fowl a la Tartare,—Required : a fowl, seasoning and garnish as below, and some tartare sauce. Cost of fowl, 3s. to 4s. on an average. Take the feet from a fine fowl, split it through down the back, and lay it in a dish of clarified butter ; turn in five or ten minutes, and let tho other sido be- come well moistened. Then cook it ho- fore tho fire in a Dutch oven, basting from time to time with the butter. Take it up in twenty minutes and let it get cool, then coat it with beaten egg and broad-crumbs, and give tho final cooking, either by plunging into plenty of hot fat until brown and crisp, or by dipping again into butter, and broiling or grilling at a sharp fire. Pile up the joints on a dish paper, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Send tartare sauce hot or cold to table, also cut lemons and cayenne, and hot, clear pickles. There are few better dishes of fowl than this, and it is very good when cold. Fowl with Tongues, Cold.— Required: a fowl, white sauce, aspic, garnish, and tongues, as below. Cost, exclusive of tongues, about 5s. Gd. to 6s. Boil a fino fowl, and when cold, mask it with thick white sauce; chaudfroid is the best for tho purpose. Cut some aspic jelly into diamond shapes, about an inch and a half long,GAME AND POULTRY. 411 and an inch wido across the centre. These should be a deop yellow or pink. Put them in a row down the breast, and on each side place a row of ham butter from a bag and pipe. Have jeady boiled two tongues, calves’ are nicest. They must be carefully skinned and trimmed, and split through length- wise, then coated with aspic jelly. Put them tips up at each side of the fowl, then decorate them with ham butter and chopped aspic in alternate rows : work from base to point in using the forcing bag. Between the tongues and at each end of the fowl, put little piles of dressed salad, and mix amongst it some boiled ham in fancy shapes or strips. {See Salads.) This dish is suitable for cold colla- tions of all sorts. Fowl with Tongue and Ham.—These make a nice supper dish. The fowl is sometimes jointed, then tied together with ribbon, the tongue and ham being put round the dish in alternate slices; these should be even in size. This is a good way •where several fowls are wanted, and guests have to be quickly served; or where bad carving is the order of the day; as it is much better to take a little trouble to carve a fowl in advance, than to do it hurriedly and badly later on ; and the tying up is but little trouble if a second person holds the joints together. Coloured ribbon can bo used (unless the occasion be a wedding or christen- ing) ; the bow should be on the top of the breast. The fowls should be glazed, and the garnish about the djsh may be of the kind used for galantine. This is, however, a less economical di3h than when the fowls are honed. Another way.—Cut up a cooked fowl, boned or not, and stuffed or plain; the slices, or joints, should be even; then cut slices of ham and tongue, the samo size. Put them alternately round a dish, and fill up with salad. .Servo a nice cold sauce with them. Stuffed eggs can be put about the dish. The meat may be put in a row down the dish, and the eggs, and salad to form a bed, down the sides. As fowl, with ham and tongue, seems to bo one of those standard dishes of which peoplo do not tire, it is well to introduce a little novelty in the methods of service. Cost of fowls, 3s. to 3s. 6d. : ham and tongue, Is. 4d. per lb. ; more if bought ready cooked. Fowl, to Truss for Boiling. —The fowl is to be very nicely picked and singed, washed and dried; the neck cut off even with the back, but enough skin left to roll back neatly. The feet are cut off and the legs inserted through a slit made in the skin at the sides of the fowl. The wings are twisted over the back; a skewer is then passed through the bottom of the wing and the leg; another is then put through on tho other side ; the points of each should be in the body, not projecting, and the heads of the skewers driven close up to the fowl. The tops of the logs should then be made firm by binding ; string is generally used, but tape is much better. Another xvay.—Instead of tucking the legs in the body, cut them off at the first joint, then loosen the skin, and draw it over the end of the leg- bone ; fasten in the way above directed. If very carefully done, this has a neat appearance, but it is easy to break the skin, therefore novices find the first plan tho easier. Omit the liver and gizzard. Fowl, to Truss for Roast- ing.—Fasten the skin over the back with a little skewer, after cutting the neck off; scald the legs, and cut off the claws ; then fasten the pinion and leg with a skewor long enough to go through the body, and fasten the other pinion and leg’. Pass a needle through the backbone, and tie the legs as in the next recipe. Fowl, to Truss without Skewers.—A fowl may bo trussed for roasting ns follows : it is at first lather more difficult than tho.ordinaryUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 412 mode, but is by many considered a better way. Thread a trussing needle with thread, and pass it through the under part of one wing, and top of leg, then through the body, and the leg and wing on the other side. Draw the thread tightly. Then pass the needle through the top of the wing, the skin of the neck, and top of the other wing; the fowl must be turned over before this is done. Draw the thread tightly. Then tie the legs, by passing the needle through close to the backbone, under the first leg; bring the thread over the second leg, back over the first, then tie at the starting point. Take care to press the legs well to the body. A fowl prepared thus is very easily baked ; it can be so securely wrapped in greased paper, that it is moistened in every part, as there are no skewers in the way to interfere with the covering. The liver and gizzard may be used or omitted, just as preferred; they are generally put one in each wing when the first method is followed, hut their use is quite optional. They should not be put in a braised fowl. To prepare them, see directions given for Turkey Giblets. Fowl A la Velont^.—Required: a fine fowl, sauce, aspic, custard, truffles, and garnish as below. Cost, from 5s. 6d. to 6s. upwards, exclusive of the melon salad. Joint a fowl (as white as can be got); bone the joints, and mask them with veloute sauce mixed with a very little pale aspic. When set, ornament them prettily with fancy shapes of savoury custard of various colours, and some truffle strips. A little aspic must be used to set the garnish. Pile up the pieces, and put here and there some chopped aspic, pickled gherkins, sliced, capers and truffles. Send melon salad to table with this. In arranging, give the breast fillets the prominent position. Game Cutlets, Cold. — Pour some liquid aspic on a large dish to form a thin layer ; then, when it is on the point of setting, sprinkle over some sieved egg yolk and chopped white, with some chopped truffle. Next put a quarter inch layer of minced game, such as would be used for rissoles, croquettes, &c.; coat again with aspic, then add more egg and aspic, and leave to set. Cut out with cutlet cutters, and use the trimmings, chopped up, with small salad for garnishing the dish. Cost, variable. Game, Devilled. — Required: game, seasoning, and gravy as below. Some hours before serving the game, score the flesh rather deeply, making the incisions close together if a high flavour is liked; but if mild, score the meat in a few places only. Mix together salt, black pepper, cayenne, mushroom powder, and—unless the flavour be objected to—curry powder; equal parts of each. Season the meat, rubbing the powder well into it, then dip the pieces into clarified butter, with a small quantity of mustard. Broil or grill until very brightly browned, but not in the least burnt. If preferred dry, send to table ns it is on a hot dish; garnish with cut lemons and fried parsley. For a wet devil, sauce or gravy is wanted. A very tasty sauce is made by mixing together a good teaspoonful of French mustard, a gill of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of orange juice, a pinch of cayenne, and a little chutney. As soon as boiling point is reached, it is ready; it may be poured over the meat, or served with it. Many other sauces will be found under Sauces. Gravy a la Diable may also be served with game or meat of any kind. There are few more acceptable ways of re-serving cold game than in the form of a devil, and by studying the tastes of those who are to eat them, and tho naturo of the game, it is easy to avoid monotony, and prevent every “ devil” tasting alike. Cost varies with the game used. Game, Fumet of (called also essence of game).—Required: game, seasoning, and stock. Cost, variable. Little and good must be the motto413 hAxifc Ax ft 1'ouLtrv. in preparing game as above described. Supposing the best parts are being cooked for an entree, the worst joints should be smashed up, bones and all, and fried with some herbs and shalots, a few peppercorns, and a clove or two, in hot butter until brown, then covered with stock, and cooked gently, until a pint has reduced to a gill, or even less. Fumet of game is Teally very strong game stock. It is essential that the stewpan be tightly closed the whole time. As soon as ready it should be strained, and used as required to heighten the flavour of soups, sauces, gravies, and other game dishes. For a more economical fumet, the bones and odds and ends of cooked birds will be handy, and will answer for plain dishes, but the flavour will not be so good as that from raw birds. Some mushroom peelings and trul'.e trim- mings will improve both colour and flavour. Game in Tins.—Game may be bought both in tins and terrines; the latter are superior, but both these forms of pate may be recommended. They are very useful as a breakfast relish, and form an admirable picnic dainty. The remnants may be utilised in various ways, for sucb dishes as patties, rissoles, &c. They will like- wise improve many kinds of forcemeat. When to be turned out and served cold, especially on a hot day, it is important that the tin or terrine be thoroughly cooled : for this some ice is needed. This rule should be observed if the pate is going to be converted into sandwiches, as it will cut much more firmly. All these dishes are somewhat rich, and must be regarded as a luxury to tempt the appetite, rather than in the light of a meal. The price varies from a shilling or eighteenpence for a very small pate, up to many shillings for the large ones. Game pates truffled are the most expensive. Small tins of potted gamo may be had from sixpence each, and furnish a relish not to be despised. Game Livers, Furbe of.—In- quired : six ounces of game livers, a small shalot, two ounces of raw ham, a bunch of herbs, a clove, half a dozen crushed peppercorns, a tea- spoonful of wine (this must be in accordance with the wine used in flavouring the dish), two teaspoonfuls of thick brown sauce, the same of good stock, either of the brown kinds, and a morsel of minced truffle ; or in place of part of the stock, a little truffle essence. If game livers are scarce, make up with calf’s liver, and add some herbaceous mixture, or a little of the aromatic seasoning given in a later chapter. Cost, variable. Chop the shalot, or a small onion, scalded, very small; cut the ham in tiny dice, also the liver; fry these with the herbs and seasoning for six to eight minutes, then put all in a mortar with a pineb of salt and the liquid ingredients, pounding well. Sieve the mass, and add the brown sauce. Re-heat and use as required. For garnishing purposes put it in a forcing bag with a plain pipe. Another way.—Use poultry and game livers mixed for the foundation. To this or the above, for the sake of economy, some bread-crumbs mav bo added ; they should be soaked in the stock or sauce used for moistening. Chopped mushrooms or parsley may be added to increase the flavour, if desired. Game Purbe.—Required: twelve ounces of cooked game, free from skin and bone, two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of extract of meat, a dessertspoonful of port, tho same of claret, a little cayenne and nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste. Cost, variable. Cut the gamo up, and put it in a mortar with the rest of the in- gredients. If convenient, a bit of dissolved glaze can be used instead of extract of meat. Pound well, and rub through a sieve. Use as directed below. Game Purbe, Rich.—Required : half a pound of game, half a gill of fumet of game, the sume meusuro ofUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 414 brown sauce, a glass of good port, and seasoning to taste. Cost, variable. Pound the meat, add the rest of the ingredients, and pass all through a fine sieve. Use for patties, or for masking croutons, and various other purposes as directed in recipes for game dishes. Glaze, or extract of meat, can he added in proportion to the nature of the dish. For game toast, or anything for which a moist puree is suitable, less of either will be wanted than for little dishes that require a firmer mixture. Of the latter class, kromeskies, croquettes, and rissoles are familiar types. Game Quenelles.—Required : ten ounces of raw game, eight and 4 half ounces of panada, half an ounce of bufter, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of throe, half a tablespoonful of brown sauce, a tablespoon ful of thick cream, and a little salt, pepper, and cayeiine. Cost, variable. Pound the game, then the panada and butter; rub through a fine sieve after tho- eggs have been mixed in; they are best put by degrees to the panada while being pounded. They should be most carefully strained from the germs. Add the rest of the ingredients, blending tho mass very thoroughly. They are then ready for cooking, either in moulds, or as directed for ordinary quenelles, (fe Entrees.) This repre- sents what may be termed the founda- tion of game quenelles, for although very good made as above, various additions may be made, according to the kind of game, and the dish for which they are to form an adjunct. (See recipes under Entrees.) With game for which orange gravy or sauce is served, a morsel of tho grated rind of an orange would be a suitable addition ; while for game with mush- rooms in any form, mushroom powder could be used. But it must be re- membered that the consistency of the quenelles must be maintained ; if any liquid is added for flavouring, more eggs or panada will be wanted, or the mass will be too moist. Game Quenelles, Economi- cal.—These are less trouble than the foregoing, and furnish a nice dish at small cost. Take any sort of cooked game, and any part, so that bones skin, and sinews aro removed. Re- quired : half a pound of game, an ounce of butter, a little seasoning, four button mushrooms chopped finely, a small shalot, also chopped, and some bread- crumbs soaked in stock, and squeezed dry; eggs as required. Cost, variable. First, mince the game, and add the rest of the ingredients, putting in the moistened crumbs by degrees,- until the mass is firm enough to mould with the fingers. The yolk of an egg is then to bo mixed in," and if, after cooking one, it appears not well bound, the yolk of a second should be added to the mixture. About threo or four tablespoonfuls of crumbs will be wanted, and, after soaking, they must be beaten with a fork, or pounded. The quenelles may bo either poached in stock, or shaped in tho sumo way and then fried, after coating with egg and crumbs. With these, sumo sauce should bo sorvod ; brown mush- room is very suitable, or a nice game gravy may be sent to table. Game, Roasting of.—The cry of over-roasted and spoilt game is often heard; but we believe that the main cause of the grumble is usually tho fact that the birds are cooked too soon, and become dry : we mean that the actual time allowed may not be too long, but by the waiting the cooking goes on to an extent. The flavour suffers likewise, and it is ceitainly better that the guests should wait a minute for a bird, than that the bird should be kept waiting ten minutes for the guests. It has been said that to over-cook a snipo or Woodcock is a positive cruelty, bearing in mind tho old saying that a snipe, to be properly cooked, should fly through the kit- chen I To wait, and put down tho gamo at the right moment, it has also been well said, requires nervo; and many, in tbeir anxiety to be ready415 GAME AND POULTRY. in good time, servo a bird over-cooked and u-anit, instead of done to a turn and hot. In all our recipes, under each heading, will bo found the ap- proximate time for each variety; but due allowance must be made for size, the time the birds have hung, the state of the weather, and the tastes of those who are to eat them ; for although everyone knows that game is preferred, as a rule, somewhat under-done, rather than over-done, yet tastes differ. One may like a bird akin to raw; another may like it really well done. Game, Salmi of.—A salmi is made from birds roasted for the purpose, or from such as have been partly cooked; they are then finished off in the sauce. (See recipes for Salmi Sauce.) A hash differs from this, as that is made from game fully cooked, and left to get cold in the usual way. The meat must he very neatly divided, and freed from skin and gristle ; these will help to make the sauce. The bones, and trimmings above named, will the better yield their flavour if smashed and pounded before stewing ; and some fumet of game may be used with considerable advantage. After the sauce is made, the game should heat in it very slowly, that it may acquire flavour, and should be served when on the point of boiling. For rich salmis the sauce should be re- duced, and wine added (the kind must be regulated by taste, and the sort of game) a3 required. Recipes to suit various tastes and kinds of game will be found under Sauce foe Salmis. A garnish of croutons or gamo quenelles should be used. Cost, very variable. Game Stewed in Wine.— Required : game of any sort, truffles or mushrooms, seasoning and wine as below. Cost, variable. Take a pheasant or any other game in season; cut it into joints, or bone it, and then divide it. Pack the pieces in a jar with a lid (the fire-proof china are nicest), with some thin slices of truffles between; or if these cannot bo had, somo mushrooms may be used; or both may be dispensed with ; then, a morsel of bay leaf, thyme, and a few white peppercorns may bo tied in a little bag and laid in. Fill up the jar with wine; light wino of any kind used in cooking nnsweis, but good sherry is to be preferred. Fasten the lid with luting paste, and cook in a water bath, or in a tin of water in the oven. The length of time varies; if a good pheasant, allow nearly an hour; for a brace of young partridges, rather less ; small birds can be cooked whole, or boned, and stuffed with truffles if liked. If to serve cold, do not take off the lid until wanted ; leave the paper on also with which the lid is fastened down; by this means full flavour is retained. The dish can be served hot if preferred; either way it is one of the nicest of game dishes. Any wine left over may be used in game soups and salmis. Game Toast.—Required: game, meat, seasoning, toast, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. This is an inexpensive and good breakfast dish. Take the remains of any cold game; mince it with half its weight of cooked beef or mutton, and a fourth its weight of boiled ham. Supposing six ounces altogether, take any gravy or sauce there may be left oyer, and rf not enough to moisten, stew the bones down to make more; thicken until the mass will just drop from the spoon, the meat being heated in the sauce; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and seasoning to taste, bearing in mind tho nature of the game. Lemon or orange juice, mush- room liquor, herbs, fried shalot, Ac., as well as fruit jellies, are all suitable. Have a large slice of hot buttered toast, cut up for serving; spread the mixture thickly on it, then shake raspings, or better still, fried crumbs over. Bust with a little cayenne, and put in a quick oven for a minute, thon serve very hot. Chutnoy, hot picklos, or bottled sauce, may go to table with this. To thoroughly imbibe tho game4i6 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flavour, the beef or mutton should be put in the sauce for an hour or so. For a better dish, use all game, with ham as above ; or add some liver puree if handy. Dishes of this class must be Well and suitably seasoned. Goose.—Choose a young goose, especially if for roasting. If the breast be plump, the skin white, and the feet pliable and yellow, the bird will prove satisfactory. As age creeps on, the feet turn fed, so does the bill. Many consider that a goose at Michaelmas is past its best; others say that it is doubtful if any geese are so good as those fattened on the stubbles in September. To test the bird, squeeze the windpipe close to the body; if it yields easily to the pressure, the goose will be tender; if it resists, the bird will be hard. The excellence of a goose, like that of other domestic animals, depends greatly upon the manner of feeding. One writer states that in one district where geese were formerly fed on oats, their reputation as table birds is quite destroyed, in consequence of the substitution of Indian corn and other food for the oats. Cost of geese, about os. to 1 Os. each. A few days’ hanging will im- prove a goose. See Index for recipes for goose cook- ing other than the following. Goose a l’Arlesienne. — Re- quired : a goose and a forcemeat as below, stock and seasoning. Cost of goose, from 5s. or 6s. upwards. Mix together for the stuffing four ounces of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, and squeezed dry; four ounces of onions, boiled in milk, and chopped small; two ounces of fresh butter, some salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley and grated nutmeg, and. four ounces of cooked chestnuts, sieved. When stuffed, put the goose in a stew- pan with a few sliced vegetables to flavour, and some herbs and spices. Pour over some stock made from the giblets, and cook for two hours, or more, if the goose be large. When done, dish and keep the goose hot ; boil the stock down after straining and skimming, and add to it some tomato puree or sauce, or some catsup, to make the mixture as thick as melted butter; let this be nicely seasoned and poured round the goose, which should be slightly browned. The goose will be better if trussed for boiling, as it can be more conveniently turned in the stewpan. A tender goose should be selected for this dish. For a goose which is past the prime, see Goose, Stewed. Goose, Boiled.—Pick and singe a goose, and truss it securely. It may be stuffed, if liked, as for roasting. Put it on in hot water or stock, bring to the boil, and skim well, then cook very gently until done. Serve good onion sauce with it. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours, more or less, according to age and size. The giblets may be cooked in the liquor for soup; see recipe Giblet Soup. Cost, from 5s. or 6s. upwards. Goose, Bonne-Bouche for.— Mix a half teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a glass of port, and a spoon- ful of brown sauce; heat, but do not quite boil it, and pour it through a slit made in the apron just before serving. Suitable for a roasted or braised goose. Port alone, poured in cold, is liked by many people. Goose, Braised. (See recipes given for Duck, Bbaised.)—A goose, i\ la jardiniere is also a very good dish. When ready to serve, put in a good quantity of mixed vegetables, ready cooked, cut into nice shapes; heat all together, and serve. Beans of various sorts, peas, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, &c., may all be used, and apples may be mixed amongst them in small proportion. Goose, German B,ecipes for Cooking. — Among many ways of preparing geese for roasting may be instanced, as most likely to be accept- able, the following:—Apples, cut into little squares, and seasoned with spice,417 Game aXd poUltkV. used for stufling the bird. Haw potatoes, cut into dice, mixed with about a sixth their weight of onions, browned in butter, then mixed with the raw liver of the goose chopped and seasoned; this is described as a re- markably good stuffing. Boiled chest- nuts, mashed, and mixed with a little stock or cream, and a handful of cur- rants. Prunes, stewed a little, then stoned, and mixed with sliced apples, slightly spiced and sweetened, also find favour. At one time, in England, such a combination as the last-named, for such a purpose, would have been ridi- culed by many; but of late years prunes have come to the front in con- nection with meats and game, and there is no reason why a goose so stulfed should not prove very good eating. Pears, too, may be served in the same way as apples are; a sauce or puree being sent to table; or tho bird may be stuffed with a forcemeat, into which stewed pears enter. (See Goose Giblets with Peaks.) In many dishes popular in Germany too much spice is used to please English palates; but this can always be reduced to suit individual taste. Goose Giblets, to Stew.— Prepare one set of goose giblets in the same way as for a pie (see recipe). Cut them into small, convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with a sprig of marjoram, the same of thyme, two sprigs of parsley, a Spanish onion, stuck with three cloves, a tea- spoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful and a half of salt, a blade of mace, and a grain of cayenne. Rub the saucopan once with garlic, and add one pint and a half of stock No. 4 or 5. Simmer gently until all are tender, and as the pieces of meat become so, remove them until the rest are sufficiently cooked. Phe liver and pinions will be done first, and the gizzard last. \\ hen all the pieces of meat are taken out, thicken the gravy with a little roux or flour and butter,' heat the giblets, and serve as hot as possible. A dash of ketchup and a dessertspoonful of x lemon juice are an improvement. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours, according to the age of the goose. If old, give three hours. For a plainer stew, use stock No. 1 or 2 ; or water may be used. Goose Giblets with Fears.— Put the giblets in a pan on the fire, with a bit of pickled pork cut in dice, and cold water to cover them; when tho boiling point is reached, add salt, pepper, a pinch of ground doves, and cinnamon. Cook until nearly done, then add some good pears, peeled and quartered, with a pinch of ground all- spice, and some browning to mako them dark. Then finish the cooking, and dish the giblets with the pears on the top. Another way. — Cover the giblets with weak stock; add an onion and a root of parsley. Remove these when the giblets are done, and add a good tablespoonful of bread-crumbs to each pint of gravy. Stew separately some pears; beat them with a slice of butter, and add a teacupful of tho puree to the giblet gravy. Boil alto- gether for a few minutes, and serve hot. Goose Giblets with Mixed Vegetables.—Cook as above, and instead of pears, put in a tablespoonful each of celery, carrots, turnips, and onions, all in shreds or dice; cook until tender (the carrots should go in first), and thicken the gravy with browned flour; add a dash of claret, and garnish the dish with cut lemons and croutons. Parsley or sage may be put in if liked. Goose, Green.—This should not be stuffed, but trussed like a full- grown goose. Pepper and salt should be used to season the inside, and a couple of ounces of butter is an im- provement. It must be roasted care- fuliy for about forty or fifty minutes, and should be accompanied by a nice brown gravy, and gooseberry or tomato sauce. A puree of sorrel is liked by418 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. some, and a garnish of watercress is suitable: or, instead of this, an apple compote may he used, or fried apples. The thing to be remembered is that the seasonings must all be of a milder kind than would be used for a full- grown goose. Geese are called “green ” up to about four months old; and it has been said that the finest time for them is from the middle of J une to the end of August. “A goose,” says Dr. Kitchener, “is in highest perfection when the full growth is attained, but before it begins to harden; ” and ho adds that, while a Michaelmas goose is as famous in the mouths of the millions as the mince-pie at Christmas, yet it is too fully grown for those who eat with delicacy. Cost, variable. Goose, Grilled.—The legs, back, and rump are suitable. Dip the cooked pieces into warm butter, and score them ; season with salt, cayenne, and mustard, and a pinch of snge; coat with bread-crumbs, and again dip into butter. Then lay them on a greased gridiron, and turn them about until heated through and well-browned. Serve with or without sauce; one made by boiling up a glass of claret, with a chopped shalot, a sage leaf, a j„ijpiprspl of French mustard, and a bit of orange rind is suitable; it is then strained, and mixed with enough hot brown sauce to thicken it. A small quantity of burette sauce [sec recipe), added to goose gravy, is also excellent; and many other suitable sauces and gravies will bo found in the chapter devoted to them. Some prefer a mild grill (though, as a rule, dishes of the sort arc preferred highly seasoned) ; in such cases the seasoning must be re- duced, and a mild gravy or sauce selected. Goose, Grilled, with Onions and Potatoes.—Required : a por- tion of a goose, onions, potatoes, and sauce as below. Cost, variable. This is a savoury and inexpensive dish. The quantity of vegetables must bo in proportion to the meat. For a grill sufficient for two or three persons prepare the goose as directed above, then dish the joints on a puree of onions, flavoured with snge, or half parsley is liked by some; a dash of curry powder is a great improvement. Make about eight little potato cakes or cones, flavoured with the same herbs, and put them round the dish. About half a pint of 6auce will bo wanted. Goose, Hashed.—Cut the re- mains of a tender goose into small, convenient-sized pieces. Put some sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and let them fry until they are tender, but not burnt. Add as much stock or water as will be sauce for the hash, with a littl. pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the bones and skin of the goose, and a glass of port or claret, if liked. Boil gently until the gravy is good, then strain it, thicken it, if necessary, and put in the pieces of goose to get hot, but the gravy must not boil after the goose is added. If any goose-stuffing has been left, cover it, and heat it over boiling water, and place it in little heaps about the dish. About a pint of gravy should be allowed for a pound of goose. If no stuffing remains, a few forcemeat balls [see recipes) will be an improve- ment, and fried apples are a nice garnish. Many of the sweet pickles and spiced fruits are enjoyable and wholesome with such dishes as the foregoing. For a very plain hash, omit the wine, and use a little French vinegar, or a spoon- ful of vinegar from clear pickles. Goose, Haslied,in Digestive Sauce. — Required : some cooked goose, sauce, and vegetables as below. Cost, variable. This dish will be found both tasty and digestible. Put the remains of a cooked goose in a stewpan, with a layer of boiling digestive sauce over each layer of goose; put the lid on, and leave the pan for half an hour, then draw it near the fire, and bring the contents again to boiling point. Put a border of cooked spinach or419 GAME AND POULTRY. other green vegetables round a dish, and serve the meat and sauce in the middle. Goose Lard, (See section on Cooking PllOCESSES.) Goose Iliver Pate.—Required : the livers of two geese, butter, a calf’s tongue, and some liver, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, from 7s. upwards, ac- cording to the season and the size of the bird. Take the livers from two fat geese, as ordinarily sold; soak them in milk for a time; be careful not to break the gall bladders in draw- ing the geese. Put them in a pan with a lump of butter, cover, and cook gently until nearly done, but do not brown them. Boil a calf’s tongue and some liver, as much as the goose livers; or it is still nicer if cooked in the butter; the tongue must be boiled separately. Skin and cut up the tongue into square and triangular shapes; let the liver get cold, then pound it in a mortar, with some butter, added by degrees, with a little cayenne, black pepper, ground nutmeg and •cloves, salt to taste, a teaspoonful or thereabouts of store sauce and mustard, •and a tablespoonful of boiling stock, in which some sliced onion has been steeped to extract the flavour. Work well together, then pack the mass very tightly in buttered jars; cover and set in a cool oven for half an hour or so, then, when cold, cover with clarified butter, and store in a cool place. A terrine or pate de foie gras jar is the best to use for this. It keeps well, makes a nice breakfast dish, or comes in for sandwiches, &c. Truffles in shreds and dice improve the above; and poultry livers can be used in place of calf’s liver. The seasoning must be left to tho dis- cretion of the cook ; it should be added gradually until well flavoured. Goose Livers, Ragout of.— Required : the livers of two fat geese, milk, stock, and seasoning, wine, and garnish as below. Cost, variable. Tako the gall-bag and any dark portions from the livers; wash in ■warm water, dry them, and put in milk to cover them for six or eight hours. Take them up, and cover them with equal parts of light wine and stock—No. 4 is suitable—or a clear stock can be used. Add to the saucepan a chopped shalot, a bay leaf, sprig of parsley, two cloves, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper. Simmer gently for twenty minutes or so, then drain the livers, and put them on a hot dish ; strain the gravy, put it back, and add a teaspoonful of brown roux, and half a glass of sherry. Let it reduce a little, then pour it over the livers. Sometimes the wine at the finish is omitted, and a couple of eggs, yolks only, are beaten into the gravy; but this is very rich. Serve with croutons round the dish ; mask half of them with any good puree of vegetables, and glaze the remainder, placing them alternately. Goose liver as above may be used as a garnish instead of being served as a separate dish. It should then be cut up small, and the sauce made thick enough to coat it. It may be put round a dish of hashed goose, or served with a roasted goose. Goose, Roasted.—A goose for roasting is generally filled with sage and onion stuffing. The way in which this is made must depend upon the taste of those who are to eat it. Various recipes will be found in a later chapter. The goose should be well filled. When bread-crumbs are added to the stuffing, room for swelling must be allowed, then securely fas- tened at the opening, firmly trussed, and put down to a brisk firo. It may be baked equally well. Plentiful basting will bo required until done. The skewers and strings must then bo removed, and tho goose sent to table with brown gravy and sauce, which may be of tomato or applo; the latter is usually liked, and is considered to facilitate tho digestion of tho flesh of the goose, which is somewhat rich,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 420 and when underdone is most indi- gestible. At tho same time, it is cer- tain that gooso is often over-cooked. Tho flesh is not so close in tho grain as a turkey; and supposing a goose and turkey of the same weight, the turkey would need a third more time, on an average. A very high authority contends that a goose only needs half the time that would he given to a turkey of the same weight; hut he goes on to say that hy the time the breast is done, the bird should he dished. This is practical enough if one could predict with certainty that the legs would not he required; for everyone knows how I nicely they come in for grilling or devilling, and that hy the time they are tender the breast must suffer a little. But when it is certain that the legs will he wanted, much may he done to protect the breast, hy covering it with a few folds of greased paper, and hy the exercise of a little care and. ingenuity it is quite easy to give the logs the full benefit of the fire, always remembering that the heat must he gradual. Time for a tender goose of moderate size, from an hour and a half to two hours. For a very largo goose, nearly three hours may he wanted, and the cooking slower in proportion. It is, however, always better to cook a bird that is past its prime hy some other method than roasting or baking. Goose, Roasted, Sauces for. —Those named in the preceding re- cipe may he termed every-day sauces. For company dishes many others may he served with advantage ; good brown sauce, Madeira, and others of tho same class, will he found excellent; and those who appreciate olive sauce with duck will not object to it with goose. A puree of cucumber or gooseberries will also he found worth trial. Goose, Roasted, to Carve. —Begin by turning the nock end of the goose towards you, and cutting the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another. (See the lines a, b.) To take off the leg, insert the fork in the small end of the hone, pressing it to tho body. Put the knife in at a, turn the leg hack, and if the bird he young, it will easily come away ; if old, we will not answer for it. To take off the wing, insert tho fork in the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body; put the knife in at n, and divide the joint. When the leg and wing are off one side, attack those on the other; hut, except when the company is very large, it is seldom necessary to cut up the whole goose. The hack and lower side hones, as well as the two side hones hy tho wing, may he cut off; hut the best pieces of a goose are the breast, and the thighs after being separated from the drum- stick. Serve a little of the seasoning from the inside, hy making a circular slice in the apron at c. Should there ho no stuffing, a glass of port or claret may be poured into the body of the goose, at the opening made in the apron hy the carver for this purpose. (See also Goose, Bonne-Bouche vor.) The unpleasantness arising from eating sage and onion stuffing used for roast goose may be in a great measure prevented by putting in the centre of the stuffing, before the bird is cooked, a lemon with the yellow rind taken off, and as much of the thick white skin left on as possible. Before the gooso is sent to table, the flap should be opened and the lemon taken out and at once thrown away. The lemon will have absorbed a great part of the im- purities, which otherwise would have remained in the stuffing. Care should Fig. Oft.—CJoose, Roast, to Carve.GAME AND POULTRY. 421 be taken not to cut the lemon so that the juice could escape. Goose, Stewed.—Required: a goose, bacon, vegetables, seasoning, stock, sherry and thickening as be- low. Cost, variable. Supposing a goose to be too old to be tender if roasted, it may be very successfully treated as follows : —Truss as for boiling ; put it in a stewpan with a slice or two of bacon under it; they should be sprinkled with mixed herbs and pepper, and a grated apple, then sprinkled with French vinegar and tomato vinegar—a tablespoonful in all. Put more bacon on the goose, with the same additions. Slice a boiled onion, and grate a carrot; lay these round the bird, and over all pour a glass of sherry and a pint of stock, quite plain from bones, or the liquor from boiled meat. Add the giblets prepared in the usual way; put the lid on, with weights on the top, and then stew for four hours, turning the goose a time or two. Then reduce and skim the gravy, keeping the goose hot; pass the onion and carrot through a coarse sieve (as the gravy is more like a sauce it should be thick), season it nicely, and thicken with browned flour or roux. Boil it well, and pour it Tound the goose. The giblets will make a separate dish. This is a very good recipe, but it may be varied in many ways. Some sliced tomatoes may be used instead of the carrots; and, if liked, some apple sauce may be sent to table as well as that made as above described. If the goose be very old it may require nearly five hours’ cooking. Goose, to Truss for Roast- ing.—Pluck the goose carefully, singe off the hairs, cut off the feet and pinions at the first joint, then cut the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over; re- move the liver, &c., very carefully, then make a slit between the vent and tho rump, draw it, wash and wipe it well, and beat the backbone. Pass a skewer through tho under-part of one wing, then through tho body and tho other wing. Draw the legs up closely, skewer the first joint, pass tho skewer through the body, and secure the other leg in the same way. After stuffing, cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin large enough to pull the rump through. If properly done, this will prevent the escape of the stuffing. (See Goose Lakd.) It may be noticed that both here and under Duck no directions for beating the breast-bones are given. The ad- visability of the method is much ques- tioned by many experienced cooks and trussers. Personally, we think that those who fail to give the bird a good shape by leaving the breast whole, will not be more likely to do so by breaking it; indeed, some say that the trussing is thereby rendered more difficult. By breaking the backbone, the bird rests firmer on the dish. It is, however, quite optional whether that be broken, as it is sometimes objected to. Goose with Chestnuts (a French recipe).—Required : a goose, stuffing as under, gravy, and a puree of chestnuts. Cost, variable, according to size of bird or the season. Roast forty or fifty chestnuts ; skin half of them ; add them to half a pound of sausage-meat, a morsel of garlic, sage, salt and pepper to taste, a grate or two of nutmeg, and the liver of the goose, chopped finely. Mix this well; seo that the chestnuts are well mashed and free from lumps. Skin the rest of tho nuts, and put them in whole. Roast the goose, and serve with gravy and a puree of chestnuts. Goose with Cranberry Sauce.— Required: a goose, cran- berry sauce, gravy, and stuffing as below. Cost, variable. This is a popular dish in America. The stuffing consists of fat pork in small pieces, bread-crumbs, cream, and beaten egg to moisten, and a seasoning of salt and popper; no herbs. Tho breast is covered with a flour and water paste (like English venison), which must bo removed in time for the browning.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 422 Serve with thin brown gravy and cranberry sauce. The author of this writes, “ If you begrudge the trouble of making the paste, use lots of paper; but those who may try the plan, or rather the goose so cooked, will not again grumble at tho method.” Geese, Strasburg. — The fat livers of these geese are known tho world over, in the form of pdte dc foie gras and foie gras entire. The first is, perhaps, the better known; it is com- posed of the fat livers, truffles, and a rich forcemeat; while the second is the liver of a goose, whole, in rich fat. Both may be said to be luxuries ; they are costly, and a little goes a long way. They have many uses, and no cook worthy of tho name need over waste a portion, however small, for the fag- ends may_ bo used up in scores of ways, some of which are given in the recipes of several chapters. Cost of the pate, from half-a-crown upwards; and for the whole livers, from 5s. Grouse.—Those birds should hang as long as possible; if cooked too soon, their peculiar flavour will he wanting. Young birds only should be cooked whole; old onos are fit only for the stock-pot. They may bo tested by holding them up by the beak, which will break if tho bird bo young. They want very caroful plucking to avoid breaking the skin, and the breast- feathers are sometimes left on until the bird is trussed to prevent this. The term grouse includes several species. The red grouse is a native of the mountainous districts of the North of England and Scotland. The white grouse, or ptarmigan, is very good if nicely cooked ; it is sent from Norway in large quantities. Then there are tho black grouse and cock of tho wood. “ Black cock ” and “ grey hen ” are other names given to black grouse, and tho cock of the wood is best known as the “ capercailzie.” Cost, about 5s. er ,6s. per brace, but very uncertain. Grouse, Cream of.—(See Part- ridge, Cream of.) Grouse, Roasted.—Squeeze out the interior, and wipe the bird well; if washed, it must bo done quickly. Finish off, and cook and serve like a pheasant; or only bread sauco and. gravy, as for roasted fowls, need go to table with them. In no case omit the bacon on tho breast, and baste them well, particularly at starting. Time, from twenty to forty minutes. Groxise, Salmi of.—Required : a grouse, some sauce, croutons, olives, Ac., as below. Cost, on an average, from 4s. 6d. to 5s., but variable. For a very superior dish take a semi- roasted bird; skin and joint it, and heat the pieces in wine, j ust to moisten. Make a good sauce (see recipes), and pour it boiling over the grouse in a stewpan. Cover for a time to im- pregnate the meat with tho flavour of tho sauce. Fiy a good-sized ring of bread, and dish the salmi in it. Make some little oval croutons, and spread them with a puree of game livers. Use them, with some olives, for garnishing the dish. Grouse, Terrine of.—Required: grouse, pork, liver, seasoning, wine, a truffle, and an egg. Cost, from 4s. to 5s., on an average. Take tho meat from a grouse, or a brace, if needed large ; for a small terrine, one will do; skin and bone it, and cut it up. Weigh it, and for twelve ounces allow two ounces of lean pork, two ounces of calf's liver, in addition to that of the bird, a little salt and cayenne, a pinch of nut- meg and savoury seasoning herbs, a glass of good Madeira, and a good- sized truffle, the white of a raw egg, and a tablespoonful or two of cold water. Pound all the meat, mix it with the seasoning, and siovo it; mix in the wine, white of egg, and moisten with tho water; slice tho truffle thinly. Fill up a terrine, or a small clean jar with a lid, with the mixture, putting in the truffle here and there. Press it in423 GAME AND POULTRY. very firmly, moistening the hand or spoon with cold water. Put a thin slice of bacon on the top and a greased paper over. Put the lid on, and lute it down. (See Luting Paste;) Cook this in boiling water, jugged hare ■fashion, for an hour, if small. For one made from a brace of birds, give nearly two hours. Do not remove the lid until cold, then cover the surfaco with clarified butter, like ordinary potted moat. When required pin a serviette round, or encase the jar in a paper frill, and set it on a dish covered with a lace paper or serviette. Grouse, to Carve.—If there be ample for all, a grouse may be cut in halves by putting the point of tho knife downwards, near the leg end of the breast, and splitting the breastbone in two along the keel, and cutting through the back. If small portions only are to be served, carve like a fowl, or take some slices from the breast, cutting well up to the wing, then take off the leg and wing. Try to serve a portion of the back with each piece, the back part being so much esteemed. Grouse, to Make Tender.— “ In the event of having on hand a supply of old, tough birds, sprinkle them inside and out, after drawing and cleaning, with allspice, ginger, wood charcoal, and pepper—equal quantities. Then sew them in canvas, and bury them three feet deep in the ground. The tendering process will be complete in four to six days; but watching is needed to prevent even incipient pu- trefaction. Putrid grouse should never be tolerated, for if most temptingly concocted, the dish will be disagreeable. \ oung, fresh grouse are incomparably more toothsome than those which have undergone even that slight degreo of decay known as ‘high.’ The reason that high game got to bo an institution in this country was simply that old, tough birds were thus made tender; the thing was afterwards done, and grew into fashion.” These remarks are quoted to show that fresh game is preferred to that which has been hung in some instances, while the making of tough birds tender may be useful to known Grouse, Various Dishes of. —Some of the recipes for pheasant are equally suitable for Grouse, and for many of the dishes under Game grouse is particularly suited. (See also Salads.) Guinea Fowl.—Tho flesh of this fowl is very good, being both savoury and digestible. It forms a good sub- stitute for game when out of season. When well kept, it is not unlike the pheasant, and in preparing it for table it is just a matter of choice whether it shall imitate game in the way it is served, or whether it shall appear as an ordinary fowl. It may, therefore, be prepared and served as a pheasant-; any of the recipes under that, head, may he followed. When cooked poultry fashion, egg sauce is frequently served with it ; indeed, that is sometimes sent,to table as well as brown gravy, when t)ie bird is dished game fashion. In no .case should larding or hording (i.e. putting slitted bacon on the breast) be omitted, for no bird stands more in need of ono or other.. Some writers say that Guinea fowl is tho driest meat sent to table unless it is larded or barded. Cost, from 3s. Gd. to 4s. on an average. Hare.—The hare is an almost uni- versal favourite. Its flesh is, however, rich, and disagrees with some pooplc;; it is also rather dry, and is improved by larding; when this is objcctod to!, bacon is used in other ways; barb minus bacon and good gravy or sauce is often voted poor eating. A hare should hang for a weok or ten days before cook- ing if tho weather permits. It is better if not paunehed for a few days after killing. When it is ready to bb paunehed, tho liver and heart should bo taken out and the inside wiped dry'; it requires careful watching, as it is the part that soon limn musty: (rUNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK. 424 sudden change in the weather will cause it to become high very quickly. A little powdered charcoal put inside helps to keep it; pepper is used for the same purpose. Should it become too high to he pleasant, wash it in a solution of permanganate of potash, or in vinegar and water. An authority says that old hares are improved by soaking for a few days in butter-milk. In a freshly-killed hare the flesh will he stiff. The ears may ho torn readily, and the jaw-hone easily broken if the hare bo young. Sharp claws also denote youth; as age creeps on, they become blunt and rough. Cost, about 3s. 6d. to 6s. In addition to the following dishes, recipes for hare cookery will be found in various chapters. (See Index.) A special hint respecting hare livers is necessary. Never use them in any dish if the least decomposed, as they are then very unwholesomo. Hare, Baron of (a German re- cipe).—In Germany a hare is fre- quently made up into two dishes, and may he served at different times, which, when the family is small, is often a convenience. The baron, which con- sists of the back and thighs (the legs are cut off), is the superior dish, and it is this to which the present recipe re- fers. Divide the hare into two parts, cutting close to the shoulder-blades. Leave the kidneys in the loins, and re- move the thin skin from the back. Rub tho hnre over .with moist sugar, and leave it for three or four hours, then put it into a deep dish with a finelv- minced onion, a bay leaf, a dozen juni- per berries, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let it remain in this mari- nade for two days, turning and basting it frequently. Drain it and lard it in neat rows with thin strips of bacon. Put it down before a clear fire until it is nicely browned, then put it into a stewpan with tho marinade, a tcaspoon- f ul of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and the contents of the dripping-pan taken from under it. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let tho raoat steam until tender, basting frequently during the process. Put the hare into a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and send the sauco in which it was stewed to table in a tureen, after having strained and thickened it, and added a large tablospoonful of red currant jelly, and a wineglassful of claret. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast, three-quarters of an hour to steam. Cost of hare, from 3s. 6d. to 6s. Hare, Blood of.—Modem tasto is somewhat opposed to the use of blood in soups, stews, &c. When it is liked, one rule must bo observed— the liquid must not boil after the blood is stirred in, or it will curdle. Hare, Boned and Roasted. —A hare may be made more plump in appearance, and easier to carve by taking the bones out of the back and thighs; a good knife is wanted, and great care noeded to prevent cutting through the skin just over the spine, as it adheres very closely to the bone. Nearly double the usual quantity of forcemeat will he wanted; the legs must be filled, so as to restore the original shape, and tho body should be lined with thin slices of good bacon, from which the edges and rind have beon trimmed away. After stuffing, sew up, and truss as usual, and serve in either of the ordinary ways. It can ho larded if liked, then the insido bacon is not wanted. To remove tho backbone, first clear it from the inside flesh; lay this back on both sides, and work the knife on tho upper side, quite to the spine. When the whole is detached, except the skin which adheres to it, separate the bone, at the first joint from the neck-bone, and pass the knife cautiously under the skin down the middle of the back. The thighs can be treated like those of a fowl. (See directions on page 400.) The cooking of a boned hare must be slow, and more time must be allowed than for an unboned one. Hare, Braisett.— Roquired ; aGAME AND POULTRY. 425 hare, bacon, stuffing, stock, seasoning, wine, vegetables, &c., as bolow. Cost of hare, 3s. 6d. to 6s. There are few better ways of cook- ing a haro than this. (See Bhais- ing, page 5.) The hare may be stuffed with a good forcemeat, and larded on the back and thighs; or this may bo omitted if covered with bacon. In either case put a buttered paper over, after placing the hare on a bed of minoed bacon (a couple or three ounces) with some sliced vegetables—say carrot, celery, onion, or leek, or a shalot or two, with a teaspoonful of peppercorns, allspice berries, and cloves ; of the latter, two will suffice. When nice and brown, in twenty minutes or so, put in stock to half the depth of the hare ; this may be such as No. 4 or 5, or for a very good dish No. 16 or 17 is to be pre- ferred ; either of the stocks given for clear, brown soups will also answer; for, in many instances, the sort of soup to be served at a dinner must regulate, to Eome extent, the precise kind of stock that is available for other pur- poses. Now put the cover on the pan —an ordinary stewpan does very well —and braise on the hot plate, or in the oven for two to three hours, ac- cording to the age of the hare. Season to taste, and strain the gravy, adding as much more stock as may be required. Glaze the hare, and after flavouring the gravy with port or other wine, strain a little round it, and serve the rest in a boat. If a slightly-thickened gravy only is desired, use a teaspoonful of arrow- root for each pint. For a browner, thicker gravy use roux; or, if liked quite thick, pass some of the vege- tables through the strainer. Many ways of varying the foregoing might be given; reference to other braised dishes will suggest some of them. Mushrooms are generally liked; they can be cooked in the grfvy; small tomatoes may also be used. Fruit jelly can be sent to table, and some nicely-cooked vegetables must not be forgotten. Hare, Braised, with Ham and Tomatoes.—Inquired: a hare, ham, tomatoes, seasoning, &c., as bo- low. Cost of haro, 3s. 6d. to 6s. Braise as in the foregoing recipe, and leave the gravy quite thin. Grill or broil some slices of tomato; cut them into dice, and prepare some ham by cutting slices of it from a previously cooked piece, then divide into dice; toss these in a small saucepan with a little gravy from the hare and a spoonful of sherry. When hot, and the mois- ture evaporated, mix in the tomatoes, equal in bulk, about half a pint alto- gether. Add some herbaceous mixture, a little carmine to colour, and a tea- spoonful of lemon juice off the fire; chop the cooked liver small, add it, and put little piles about the dish. All the gravy must be served in a tureen. Hare, Civet of.— Required: a young hare, half a pound of streaky bacon, stock, wine, thickening, sea- soning, and vegetables as below. Cost, about 5s. or 6s. Cut the hare in neat joints. Soak the bacon for a short time in cold water, then cut it up and fry it lightly; fry the hare also, then stir in a couple of ounces of browned flour, and a glass of port. Pour in about three gUls of good brown stock—No. 4 or 5 will do—but richer stock will be wanted for a very good civet. Next add a dozen button onions, the same number of button mushrooms, the juice of a Seville orange, a clove or two, some black peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, and a grain of cayenne. Cover closely, and cook gently until lender, adding more stock as it boils away. A quarter of an hour before serving putin some brown roux, salt to taste, and a glass more wine; let the sauce thicken, and then serve. Time, about three hours—more if the hare is old; but the younger the better for this. A civet is literally a dark, rich stew. Many additions and variations may bo made. 8omo would like a spoonful of black or red currant jolly stirred in; claret may be preferred to port; andUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 426 when Seville oranges cannot be had, use lemon or lime juice—the latter in moderation. A fruit salad or sweet pickle may be served with it. Hare Collops.—Collops are pre- pared by mincing the meat of a portion of hare, either cooked or raw. For the preparation, see Beef Collops. After frying the hare a good brown, add the gravy {see Hare, Escalopes), and if the hare be raw, simmer it until done; if old, although the pieces are small, it will take some time; let it be as tender as possible without getting raggy. If the meat is cooked, simply heat it through; boil the gravy up first, then let the hare remain in it for half an hour to become well flavoured, but do not boil the gravy a second time. This may be served as it is, or used for patties, little vol-au-vents, and other dishes. If cold hare bo usod, some of the forcemeat can be added. Hare Cutlets.—Required: hare, seasoning, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, variablo. Braiso the back of a hare until nearly done, and let it get cold. Then cut it in nice slices, and dip them in beaten egg, then into bread-crumbs, to a quarter-pint of which a little salt and white pepper, a saltspoonful each of grated lemon pool, mushroom powder, chopped bay loaf, thyme, and parsloy should be added. Fry in hot fat to cover, and serve in a ring with a puree of vege- tables in the centre; and send jelly to table; gravy also if liked. The hare for this is best larded; if that is not done, it must be quite covered with bacon; or, after slicing the hare, a mixture of chopped bacon and herbs may be spread between two slices, which must then be fried to- gether, sandwich fashion; but this is not so good as larding in the first instance. Another way.—This is very superior. Cut the meat from a raw hare, and lard .the cutlets in the same way as fillets of beef. Cook them in a saute pan for a few minutes in a little butter, then finish them off by stewing in gravy or sauce for half an hour, or until tender. Drain and lay them on a hot dish ; brush over with glaze, and crisp the surface; pour the gravy round. For the gravy, see Hare, Braised, Hare, Civet of, and other dishes. Rabbit can be similarly cooked. The meat may bo seasonod with mixed herbs before larding. Hare Escalopes, or ScaUops. —Required : hare, gravy, or sauce, wine, garnish, &c., as below. Cost varies with the season and the adjuncts. These must be cut according to the purpose for which they are required, as they have various uses. In any case, they should be thin and round; but for little dishes they must be made small. Supposing they are to be served sepa- rately, as an entree, cut them as large as possible from the back, make them even, and fry them in a saute pan in hot butter to a light brown. Pour the butter off, wipe the pan out, and put the hare back, with brown sauce to cover; or use Madeira sauce; if the former, flavour it with port or olaret, and stew until tender. Gravy can bo used instead; either of those given for game, or one made from stock No. 16 or 17, well flavoured with herbs, wine, &c., and thickened slightly. Or tomato pulp, with an equal measure of gravy may bo used; a little glaze and wine being added towards the end. Serve in a eroustade of bread or rice, and, if convenient, garnish with quenelles, un- less the latter method is followed, then small braised tomatoes answer equally well. If mushrooms are liked, the gravy may be flavoured with mushroom essence, and little braised mushrooms used for garnishing ; or tiny croutons, spread with a brown mushroom puree, can be put on the top in a pattern. Supposing though that the hare is to be served in shells—of china, or the plated ones—then the meat must be cut in very small slices. The shells must be prepared by greasing, and coating with fried crumbs, then filled with the hare and gravy, coated withGAME AND POULTRY. 427 crumbs, and made hot. Instead of crumbs, brown macaroni can be used; it is a very agreeable change ; or nicely mashed potatoes may be utilised for plain dishes of the sort—then it is not important that the meat be in round slices; just an ordinary mince can be used, the meat being cut into dice, or passed through a mincer. For these, cooked hare can be used, the bones being stewed for the gravy, which should be rather thick. In preparing escalopes for an entree from raw hare, the bones will make excellent soup, if cooked with the inferior portions ; the shoulders and legs will make a civet, or other dish, unless plenty of soup be required, in which case add them to the rest. (See Hare Soup.) Hare, Gateau of.—Required : a hare, veal, pork, bacon, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. 6d., exclusive of the hare. Prepare a hare as if for roasting. Cut it into joints. The best parts—the back, thighs, and shoulders—may bo used for the gateau, and the remainder for soup, &c. Take the meat from the skin and sinews, cut it up, and pound it in a mortar, with one pound of the neck or loin of veal, half a pound of fresh, lean pork, and a quarter of a pound of unsmoked fat bacon. A gill of good brown stock may be added while pounding, so as to make the meat into a smooth paste. Add pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, together with two or three small onions, finely minced, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Beat half a dozen raw eggs, and add them one at a time. Line the bottom and sides of an oval jar with slices of fat bacon, cut very thinly. Spread the chopped meat over it, about an inch and a half in thickness, and place two or three more slices upon it. Repeat until all the meat is used, letting bacon be uppermost. Place a coarse crust of Hour and water on the top to keep in the juices, and bake in a moderate oven. If the oven were hot, the meat would be hard and dry. When cool, dip the dish into hot water, turn out the cake, place on a napkin, and garnish according to taste. This dish is good for breakfast or luncheon, and will keep for some days. It should be eaten cold. Time, about four hours to bake. By stewing down the bones and other portions of the hare, as directed for fumet of game, and adding the liquid to the gateau, a very superior dish may be had, but naturally the cost is considerably increased. But when hares are plentiful, or expense not an object, the luxury may be in- dulged in. Hare, Gftteau of (made with cold dressed hare).—Required: cold hare, bread, bacon, eggs, &c., as be- low. Cost, Is. or Is. 2d., exclusive of the hare. Take the fleshfrom the bones of a cold roast hare, remove the skin and sinews, cut it small, and pound it in a mortar with the liver of the hare. Take half the -weight of the meat in finely-grated bread-crumbs, soak them in as much good broth as they will absorb, and mix them with the pounded meat. Season with salt, pepper, and spices according to taste, together with a finely-minced shalot and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Add two well- beaten eggs, supposing about half a hare to be used. Cover the inside of a mould with slices of bacon. Put in the pounded meat, lay some more slices on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, or put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Take away the bacon that suiTounds it, and strew finely- grated bread-crumbs over it. This dish may be eaten either hot or cold. If eaten hot, a sauce should be sent to table with it, mado of the bones and trimmings of the hare. (See Stock No. 5.) Hare, Jugged. — Required: a hare, a pound of beefsteak, half a pound of bacon, from half to a pound of plnin herb stuffing,gravy.seasoning,tomatoes, and a glass of claret. Cost, from 6s. to 7s. This is a very plnin way, but428 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. will bo found good. It is a suit- able method of cooking a hare that is rather too old for roasting or for better-class dishes of any kind. (See recipes under Rabbit.) Cut the hare up in the usual way (sec next recipe) ; slice the steak, and cut the bacon in strips. Put them in alternate layers in a jar. Pour over half a tin of tomatoes—the cheap broken kind answer very well—and plain stock to cover; put in the claret, it will help to make the hare tender; season with herbs and spices, but no salt. Cover, and cook in a water bath or a gentle oven until done. Half an hour before dishing, strain the gravy (after putting the joints on a hot dish); add salt and more seasoning if needed, thicken with browned flour, and colour with a little browning. The force- meat should have been made into little balls or cakes, and fried. They should bo put back in the gravy with the hare, to finish the cooking, and the whole served very hot. If more convenient, the forcemeat may be baked in a jar, and then turned out into the middle of the dish. (See Forcemeats.) Hare, Jugged, Rich. — Re- quired : a hare, seasoning, wine, vege- tables, stock, and adjuncts as under- mentioned. Cost, from 7s. upwards on an average for a large hare. Cut the hare in pieces not larger than an egg ; season them with pepper, and fry them brown in bacon fat or butter. Drain them, and put them in a stone jar with a quarter of a pint of port and a spice bag, made by tying up in muslin a strip of lemon rind, two bay leaves, four cloves, a dozen peppercorns, a few allspice berries, a sprig of thyme, and a couple of shalots, chopped. The spices should be bruised, and the bag tied loosely. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over, tie the jar over, and set it in a warm place for half an hour. A morsel of stick cinnamon is an im- provement to jugged hare, unless, as often happens, it is objected to. Untie the jar, and pour in a pint or more of good stock, well flavoured with vege- tables; a pinch of celery seed should go in the bag if no celery has been used in the stock. No. 1 or 5 will be found suitable, and the dish will be all the better if the neck and other inferior parts bo used for the gravy, which should then be made the day before- hand. Then tie the jar closely, and set it up to its nock in a saucepan of boiling water. Cover, and keep tho water boiling, replenishing it as it boils away, for two to three hours; the latter is enough for an old hare. Finish by straining the gravy—give the bag a good squeeze to get out the flavour; place the joints nicely on a hot dish, and brush them with a little thin glaze; add a morsel of glaze or extract of meat to the gravy, and season it to taste. The thickening may be arrowroot or brown roux; it is a matter of opinion which is the nicer. Boil the gravy until as thick as good cream, and pour it over the hare. Garnish the dish with small forcemeat balls, fried a rich brown; if a force- meat containing suet be used for them, they must be stewed for about an hour after frying; but the sausage meat, or other hare stuffing, minus suet, is pre- ferable. Extra gravy should be sent to table, and some fruit jelly, melted, should be served in a boat; currant is, perhaps, tho best known, but gooseberry or tomato jelly will be found equally good. This dish will be found of better flavour than one to which the wine is added last thing, as usually directed. If more convenient, the jar may be placed in a tin of water in the oven, but it takes longer (See recipes under Rabbet.) Hare Quenelles. (&* Quenelles of Hare under Entries.)—Should the supply of hare run short, rabbit can be used to eke it out, but it is necessary that it be well seasoned, and is all the better if moistened with a little port and strong stock, made from hare or rabbit bones, before pounding. (Sec also Game Quenelles.)429 game axd poultry. Hare, Ragout of.—Required : a hare, a marinade as below, gravy, jelly, wine.and garnish. Cost,from5s.6d.to 6s. The hare for this is marinaded, and a very excellent dish is the result. Put all the best parts of a hare into an earthen vessel. Put in a chopped onion, two bay leaves, a dozen bruised peppercorns, half a dozen bruised cloves, a gill of claret, and the same of vinegar—three kinds, viz., French, English, and tomato vinegar—turn the pieces about, and leave them for twelve hours. Meanwhile, make a gravy from the other portions of hare ; this should be well seasoned, and as thick as cream. When ready to cook take up the joints, dry them, and put them in the gravy. Put the marinade in a saucepan, and boil it down to less than half; add it to the rest, and cook gently. Remember in making the gravy from the bones, &c., to rub through some of the meat; the gravy will then want no other thickening (the rest will come in for other dishes, as hare toast or some patties). When nearly done, season the gravy rather highly—the vinegar flavour must not predominate, and stir in a dessert- spoonful of black currant jelly and a glass of good port. Cover again, and serve very hot. Put some croutons round the dish, or, if liked, some little quenelles; see recipe. Hare, Roasted.—An old hare should not be roasted. Take one, there- fore, not more than three-parts grown. When it is wished to hang a hare for the full time before paunehing, tie up the vent and mouth. As soon as it is paunched scald the liver and heart; wipe the inside, and pepper it well, and hang the hare head down, until ready to cook it. Should it be- come limp, cook it at once. Skin, and wash the hare well inside ; dry it, and if there are any parts where the blood has settled, pierce tho skin with a sharp knife, and hold the parts in warm water to draw out tho blood. Fill with good forcemeat, and sew it up. Brush it over with warm dripping or butter, and wrap thin slices of fat bacon about it. The back and thighs are most important, but it is well to cover it entirely. Baste often, almost incessantly, with dripping until nearly done, then flour it, and baste with butter: sometimes cream is used, a bit of butter being dissolved in it; either will produce a good froth. Tho hare should be a nice brown. If tho bacon is not to be sent to tablo, take it off before the final basting and frothing. If to be sent to table, leavo on the back portion only; it should bo cut rather thicker at first than the rest, and some slits made in a slanting direction across the middle. Send gravy or sauce to table, and some red currant or other fruit jelly, both hot and cold. A batter for basting hare was at one time much used, and is still liked by some people. It is made by mixing a pint of milk with half a gill of salad oil, two or three ounces of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. This dries on the hare, and be- comes stiff, and care is needed to pre- vent burning ; it is only used towards the end of the roasting, after the dripping. Remove all the skewers and trussing strings, and garnish the hare with plain salad, or with small forcemeat balls, if the hare be un- stuffed. Little rolls of bacon may bo used if it is known that bacon is liked. Time, about an hour and a quarter to an hour and three-quarters for a medium-sized hare, two hours for a fine one, may be given as the average ; but there is a very wide difference of opinion on this point. Some authori- ties, who favour the under-cooking of winged gamo to tho fullest extent, consider that hare ought to bo well done; while others go so far as to say that thirty or forty minutos is ample timo for a well-grown hare. Tastes differ, but wo think that few people, comparatively, will care for haro cooked much loss than tho time above stated; and tho cooking must always be gradual from tho very stnrt; tho fierce heat generally necossai y to close430 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. the pores of animal food would harden a hare. Then it must he home in mind that a stuffed hare takes longer (and tho cooking must be slower) than an unstuffed one; not only on account of the increased weight, hut because a solid mass like forcemeat is a had conductor of heat. Hare, Roasted (German way).—Put a quarter of a pint of vinegar and a quarter of a pint of water into a saucepan, with a sliced onion, two hay leaves, half a dozen peppercorns, a teaspoon- ful of parsley and thyme, and three cloves. Boil the marinade, and when cold pour it over a young hare, trussed for roast- ing, but not stuffed. Let it remain for twenty-four hours, and histe it frequently. Lard it, and put it down before a clear fire, or hake it in a moderate oven. Baste it with the liquid and a little butter or drip- ping. A little while before it is done basto it with new milk. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it before serving, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon. An hour and a quarter to roast. We once heard a German cook say, that by basting a hare with butter- milk very thoroughly before cooking, and leaving it to soak in it for a few hours, then basting it in the same way for the first half-hour after putting it to roast, even if quite old, it would turn out as tender as a leveret; but we cannot answer for the truth of the statement. Wo would add that, in the event of a hare being baked instead of roasted, the best way to treat it is to give it a thorough coating of drip- ping, melted, then to wrap it in bacon, afterwards in well-greased paper. Extra time must be allowed to make up the loss caused by the opening of the oven door for the purpose of basting ; and as this must be very often, a baked hare is a good deal of trouble. Hare, Roasted, to Carve.— Insert the point of the knife under the shoulder, and cut from that down to the rump, along the sides of the backbone. The slices should be moder- ately thick. Another way of carving hare is to remove the shoulders and legs, and cut the back crosswise into four or five pieces. This, however, can only be done when the hare is Fin. 100.—Roast Hare. very young, or when it has been boned. To separate the leg, put tho knife between the leg and the back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which you must try to hit and not to break by force. The shoulders must be taken off by cutting in a circular line round them. These last are known as tho sportsman’s pieces; some prefer them, but sometimes they are thought little of, and are served only when the other portions of the hare are exhausted. The most delicate part is the back; after that come the thighs. When everyone is helped, take off tho head. The upper and lower jaw should be divided by insert- ing the knife between them ; this will enable you to lay the upper part of the head conveniently on tho dish. That being done, cut it in two. The ears and brains are highly prized by connoisseurs. With each slice of hare some of the stuffing should be served, and some of the gravy should ac- company it. A bit of bacon must be put on each plate, and a forcemeat ball, if sent to table with it. Hare, Roasted, to Truss.— The engraving shows how this is done, so far as tho placing of tho logs goes: cut the sinews underneath before placing them. Keep tho head back by means of a skewer down theGAME AND POULTRY. 431 throat, and another passed through the shoulders. Skin tho ears, and leave them whole, then put string round the body from skewer to skewer, fastening it over the back. Leave the tail on, but be sure to remove the eyes. Hare, Stewed in Port.—Re- quired : the back, legs, and shoulders of a young hare, slices of bacon, wine to cover, seasoning and ham, rcux and glaze. Cost, about 6s. to 6s. 6d. Cutthoback intoneat pieces, and each leg in two; cut the bacon in strips, and lay them (a strip or two) on each joint. Take a large saute pan, and put the joints in in a single layer ; a frying-pan will do if it can be tightly covered. Sprinkle over a teaspoonful of black pepper; the same of sweet herbs, a tablespoonful of chopped shalot, a saltspoonful of grated cloves and nutmeg mixed, a few drops of essence of celery and two tablespoonfuls of grated ham. Pour port and claret in equal parts just to cover, then lay a sheet of paper, greased on the top side over, and put the lid on. Place a weight on, and bring the contents gently to the boil. Cook, with an occasional shake, for an hour and a quarter, then put in a glass of very good port, a dessertspoonful of brown roux, and half an ounce of glaze. Stir to the boil, and put in salt to taste. Pile very neatly on a hot dish, and serve with any garnish that may be preferred. Small quenelles or force- meat balls, or little croutons spread with a liver puree, are suitable; or some potato chips or ribbons can be used. Nothing by way of recommendation need be added ; we will simply say that as the sauce is not to be skimmed —the bacon being left in—unless served very hot it is not so inviting, either in taste or appearance. Those who favour hare dishes into which some of the blood enters, will use some in the above, remembering that it must not afterwards boil for a moment. For this and similar dishes a copper pan is the best—the heat is more evenly distributed; next to that we ad vise a steel one. Iron pans do not answer for this sort of cookery. landrail, or Corn Crake, to Hoast.—This delicious bird, which is in full season at the end of August and the beginning of Septem- ber, should be trussed like a snipe, with the head under the wing, and a skewer passed through the thigh and the body, to keep the legs straight. Fasten two or three slices of bacon over the breast, and roast before a clear fire. Dish it on fried bread- crumbs, or, if preferred, omit these, and serve with brown gravy only, or with bread sauce in addition. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cost, uncertain, the birds being seldom offered for sale. Larks, Roasted.—Pick and cleanse the larks, and pick out the gizzards with the point of a knife. Season them with a little salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Brush them with beaten yolk of egg, and coat them with crumbs, then run a long skewer through them; fasten each end of this to the spit, and roast briskly. Baste well, and put more crumbs on until within five minutes of dishing, then leave them to brown. They will take ten to twelve minutes. Dish on fried crumbs, and garnish with slices of lemon. If liked, the trail may bo left in. Instead of egging and crumb- ing the birds, wrap each in a slice of fat bacon, and see that they do not touch each other on the skewer. Roast as above, and garnish with water- cress. These, and other small birds, may be laid in a tin before the fire, after skewering; or they can be baked. They nro also nice grilled. Larks, Stewed, are very good eating (see recipe for Birds, Small, Braised). “A lark stewed,” says a writer, “ is passable, but roasted, no; tho very sight is pitiable, so miserable does it look upon one's plate ; ” not432 tWIVEfiSAt COOKERY ROOK. tlmt the stewing increases the size, but it obviates the tendency to shrivel into comparative nothingness. Any sort of brown stock may be used; there should bo a garnish to the dish ; fried potatoes are very good. leveret.—This is a young hare. It may be cooked by any of the recipes, given for hare, and is prepared in the same way. The flesh is more tender and delicate, and less time is required for cooking. A milder season- ing, both in gravy and forcemeat, is also preferred by many than for an old hare. Leverets, from their tenderness, are well adapted for pies and other dishes in which a tender hare is a desideratum. Ortolans.—These birds are small and rare, but much esteemed for the delicacy of their flesh. They are prepared for roasting as a quail, but the trail is always loft in. Instead of a vine leaf, a bay leaf is used some- times. They need basting all the time they are cooking. Cost, very uncertain. Ten minutes or less will cook them. Ortolans, Stewed with Truffles.—Required: half a dozen birds, half a dozen truffles, sauce, &c., as undor. Cost, very uncertain. Cut off heads and feet, take out crops, and season with pepper, salt, and a bit of grated nutmeg. Rut the sliced truffles in a stewpan with the birds on ; pour over some Madeira and stock, equal measures, and lay a slice or two of bacon- on. Stew softly for twenty minutes; then dish the birds high, with the truffles, on a large crouton laid on a dish. Strain the gravy; boil and skim well; then put in a little brown sauco; boil again, it should become thick, then pour it over all, and serve hot. If liked, the ortolans may be stuffed and trussed, then longer must be given them. Any nice clear stock does; the best is from game, or a mixture of game and meat, made as strong as given in the recipe for stock No. 6 or 7. Partridges.—These, like other game, should be hung. In the fresh state they are not good. Young ones should be chosen for roasting; old birds are only good for the stock-pot, for soup, &c. To test them, notice the under-feathers of the wing; they are pointed in a young partridge; the legs are yellowish, and the bill dark. In older birds the legs are greyer. If taken up by the beak, the lower one will snap if the bird be very young. If the vent be stiff it is a sign of freshness. If it is limp and discoloured, it proves staleness. The red-legged partridge is most esteemed in Franco, but it is inferior to the English, being of a drier nature, and having less flavour. They must be hung as long as possible, and well cooked, or will be dry and hard ; with care, they are nice eating. Cost, about 3s. per brace for English birds; the red-legged ones are very uncertain, and English birds vary considerably; they may reach from 2s. to 3e. 6d. each. The season for Russian partridges follows that of English birds. Partridges, a la Ragley.— Required : a brace of young birds, a glass of good sherry, a gill and a half of stock No. 16, two table- spoonfuls of salad oil, the same measure of tomato pulp, a pinch of salt and cayenne, a dozen crushed white peppercorns, a sprig of parsley, two cloves well bruised, and eight diamond-shaped croutons ; a liver puree as below. Cost, from 4s. Gd. to 5s. Truss the birds like chickens for boiling; put them in a stewpan with the oil and herbs; turn about for a ■few minutes, add all the rest, and stir to the boil. Cover, and cook, with an occasional shake, until done. Cook the livers of the birds in the stock for a short time, and make a puree with a little minced ham, some tomato pulp, and seasoning; add a few drops of carmine, and put a portion on each crouton. Place the birds on a hot dish; skim and strain the sauce, and pour it over them; garnish with the433 GAME AXD POULTRY. croutons, and send more gravy to table, made from the stock used above and flavoured with sherry. Do not put much seasoning in the gravy ; it should be delicately flavoured. Partridges a la Verrey.— Required: a brace of partridges, shifting as below, crumbs and season- ing. Cost, from 4s. 6d. to os. Take the livers of the partridges and those of a couple of fowls; chop and pound them with a slice of butter Slice some truffles that have been cooked in a little wine; add them to the livers and stuff the birds. Roast them, after covering with a vine leaf and a buttered paper, until done. Put on a dish a layer of fried crumbs; put the birds on, and sprinkle more crumbs down the breasts; these should be mixed with chopped parsley and grated lemon peel. To the wine in which the truffles were cooked add good stock to make up half a pint; put in a little lemon juice and seasoning to taste, and send to table in a tureen. A dish very similar to the above is made by dishing the birds on a crouton, and serving the browned crumbs separately, seasoning them as above directed. Put a few hunches of watercress or endive on the dish. The stock for the above is pre- ferably made from beef and veal (see Stocks fou Clear Soups), with a fumet of game; or a game bone or two may be cooked in the stock. It may be very slightly thickened. Partridges, Baked (an Italian dish).—Required: a brace of partridges, a good forcemeat, mushroom is usually preferred (see recipes in Forcemeats), brown sauce, and a seasoning as below. Cost, from 7s. upwards, inclusive. Pluck and truss as for roasting; stuff the birds, then prepare two sheets of white paper by coating them en both sides with salad oil. Peel and chop a mushroom or two, grate a carrot, and chop a truffle; scald an onion and mince it with a few parsley leaves; season with salt and pepper and lemon juice; blend, and spread over the papers; place the birds on, cover the breasts with a slice of bacon, then secure the paper, and bake in a good oven, breasts uppermost. The pan should be deep and the birds covered ; baste often. Remove the paper and the bacon, and pour the sauce over. Brown mushroom sauce is excellent. Time, from twenty-five to forty minutes, according to size of birds. Partridges, Braised. — The breasts should be finely and evenly larded, and the birds laid in a pan (a stewpan does) on a little bed of sliced vegetables. Stock to half the depth should then be added (see recipe for Partridges a la Verrey), and the birds cooked as long as may be neces- sary ; if old they may be made tender, though young ones are preferable. A little sherry may be added shortly before serving. Finish off in the usual way, and dish on a crouton; serve the gravy in a boat. A few olives, mushrooms, or truffles may be used for garnishing. Cost, from 4s. to os. per brace. Partridges, Broiled.—Choose young birds ; cut the heads off, split them up the back, and flatten the breast bones a little. Wipe with a cloth both inside and out; season with salt and cayenne, and dip into oil or clarified butter. Put the cut side to the fire first, and turn in a minute. Give a quarter of an hour, turning often ; spread a little more butter over just before dishing. No sauce is needed; some prefer a salad; others a dish' of crisply fried potatoes; mush rooms or tomatoes will the better suit others. A nice liver puree, spread on toast or crofitons, may bo served on the same dish. Tomato butter, either hot or cold, is a nice relish with broiled birds of almost any sort; and although wo have said that no sauce is needed, many ask for it. Litllo and good should then bo tho motto, and whatever tho sauce, it ought to bo flavoured with a fumet of game. In the case of a lurgo party, when a number of birds are cooked, it is worth434 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. while to stow one down for the sauce if no game hones are available. Cost, from 4s. to os. per brace. Partridges, to Carve.— The method depends upon the quantity of birds at the disposal of the carver, and the nature of the meal. If there is enough, and the birds are small, they should be cut right through, and half a bird given to each, supposing the oc- casion to he a bachelors’ supper or a game dinner. When the party is a large one, and small helpings only are possible, carve like a fowl, but give some breast meat with each portion, the breast being so highly and de- servedly esteemed. Partridges, Cold, to Serve. —A cold partridge is much enjoyed, generally speaking. It should he neatly dished, and garnished with lemons and fresh parsley, or with aspic jelly for more elaborate service. A nice plain salad should be served with it (nee Salads). Sauce may be sent to table; mayonnaise or tartare is generally liked; and amongst Cold Sauces are some of a more piquant nature that are equally suitable for partridges and other birds. Tomato aspic is an excellent jelly to put on the dish with cold game ; it is as nice to eat as to look at—no small desideratum in garnish of any sort. Pheasants may be served in the same ways. Partridges with Cran- berries, American. — Send as many partridges, nicely roasted, to table as may be required, and, in ad- dition to gravy and fried crumbs, let there bo a generous supply of cran- berry sauce and currant jelly. Some of your guests may like one, and some the other. If once tried this is likely to become popular, and the sauce and jelly will bo as acceptable with other sorts of game as with partridge. Cost of birds, from Is. 6d. each when plentiful. Partridge, Cream of. — Re- quired : partridge, cream, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d., for a cream made from the best part of a bird. This may be made from the remains of cooked partridges. Cut off all the meat, and pound it well, then pass it through a wire sieve. Boil the remnants for a fumet; for half a pound of meat, a half-gill of fumet will he enough; add also enough thick cream to make a paste; season nicely, and put in a pinch of herbs in powder —not enough to kill the flavour of the partridge, only to assist it. Press the paste into a well-buttered tin, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and make it hot through in the oven, then turn out on a hot dish. This is nice for invalids or old people, but by almost anyone it will be welcomed. Pheasant may be prepared in the same way, and grouse is excel- lent. In setting the tin in the oven, a second tin should be set underneath. For a very delicate dish of the sort, tho game cream may be steamed, but the tin must be tightly covered to keep in the flavour. Partridges, Roasted. — Let the birds hang as long as possible to attain perfection. In cool weather they should he kept fully a fortnight before they are put down to the fire. They may be trussed either with or without the head, though the latter mode is at present more generally pre- ferred. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, and wipe them carefully inside and out; cut off the heads, and leave enough skin on the neck to skewer them securely. Draw the legs close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and string through the pinions and the middle joints of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If the heads are left on, they should be brought round, and turned under the wing, with the bill laid on the breast. To give the birds a plump appearance, pass the needle through the back below the thighs, then again through the body and legs, and tie the strings firmly. Put the birds down before a clear fire, baste liberally with butter (a quarter ofGAME AND POULTRY. 435 a pound will be required for a brace), and a few minutes before they are taken up flour them well, so that they may brown nicely. The birds may be dished upon fried bread-crumbs, or upon a slice of buttered toast, which has been soaked in the pan under the birds, or they may be put on a hot dish, and garnished with watercress. Brown gravy and bread-sauce should be sent to table with them; two or three thin slices of fat bacon, tied round the birds before they are put down to the fire,wdll greatly improve their flavour; when ob- tainable, a large vine leaf may be laid on the breasts under the bacon. (See recipe for Gravy for Boasted Phea- sant.) The same may be served with partridges. For a rich gravy, see Stock Xo. 17. A little very good sherry or Madeira may be added, and a slight thickening of arrowroot or roux, with a small quantity of good game stock or fumet of game. Be sure not to over- flavour partridge gravy; one that would go well with coarse, strong game would overpower the flavour of a partridge. A stock made from veal and beef, like those given for clear soups, may also be converted into very good gravy for partridges. Time, about twenty or twenty-five minutes for young birds; thirty minutes or more for older ones. Cost, from 2s. to os. per brace. Partridges, Salmi d la Chasseur.—Take some cold roasted partridges—all the better if under- done ; cut them into joints, and take away the skin and sinew. Put into a sancepan ingredients in the following proportions, regulating the quantity according to that of the partridges : — Four tablespoonfuls of puro salad oil, six tablespoonfuls of good claret, the juice of a lemon and the grated rind, a pinch each of salt, cayenne, and white pepper. Coat the joints with the mixture, and let them lie in it, then heat them gently. When boiling- point is reached, serve at once. Cost of birds, about Is. 6d. to 2s. Gd. each. Partridges, Salmi of, a la Francaise.—Boquired: a brace of partxidges and a sauce made as below. Cost, about 6s. Boast a brace of well-hung young partridges, baste them liberally, and take them down when they are only three-parts cooked. Let them get cold; then cut them into neat joints, remove the skin, fat, and sinew, and put the good parts aside, being cax-e- ful to cover them, and keep them in a cool place to prevent their be- coming hard. Melt three ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan. Put with it a dozen small mushrooms, a scraped carrot, two sliced shalots, half a blade of mace, a bay leaf, a handful of pars- ley leaves, a medium-sized onion, stuck with two cloves, a small sprig of thyme, and four ounces of undressed lean ham, cut into small pieces. Stir these over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned, sprinkle over them a table- spoonful of flour, let it brown slightly, and then stir in, very gradually, a pint of good veal gravy and a glassful of sherry. Add the bones and trimmings of the birds, and boil the sauce gently until it is reduced to half; then strain it, let it boil up once more, put in the pieces of partridge, and when they are quite hot, dish the salmi, and serve immediately. Garnish the dish with crofitons. When mushrooms cannot bo obtained, their place may bo supplied by a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Partridges, Salmi of, with Truffles, — llequired : partridges, butter, bacon, fowls’ livers, truffles, wine, sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about 7s. to 7s. 6d. Semi-cook a brace of young birds in a saute pan, with two ounces of butterand a slice of bacon, cut in dice; add the livers, and those of a couple of fowls. When half-done, put by to get cold. Make a fumet of the remnants, and add it to the livers; pound well, and put in a few truffle trimmings, cut up small. Slice 'half a dozen truffles, and heat them in Madeira; stir in u morsel of glaze and a spoonful of the fumet, justUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 43G to coat the truffles. Finish off the birds in good brown sauce, to which add some wine, truffle essence, and fumet; dish in a pile, and put the sliced truffles round the joints and some on the top. Make some tiny rings by cutting the centres from small round croutons; put in each a bit of the liver puree, and shake fried crumbs over, so as to coat the interior. In the middle of each, lay a bit of truffle, and arrange them about the dish in any desired form. Many other birds are equally deli- cious thus prepared. If more conve- nient, semi-roast them. In finishing off the birds, they may be cut into five parts : the backs being used for stock. For other larger birds the division must be regulated by their size. The skin is to be taken off as usual. Peacock. — This beautiful bird makes a showy and ornamental dish ; but, in spite of its lovely plumage, the flesh is rather poor. The tail-feathers are generally stuck in when roasted. The hen is, however, more frequently served than the cock. Cost, very uncertain. Peafowl, Trussing. —Peafowls should bo trussed in the same way as pheasants, excepting that the head should be left attached to the skin of the breast unplucked. It should be carefully (overed with buttered paper, and fastened under the wing. If larding be omitted, the legs of tho birds, as well as tho bodies, should be bound with slices of bacon. Peafowl, Larded and Roasted. — Choose a young bird, and lard it closely over the breast and legs. Fill it with a good forcemeat, or it can be omitted; it is a matter of taste; truss it firmly, and roast before a clear fire for an hour or an hour and a half, according to the size of the bird. When done enough, take off the buttered paper which was round the head (see Peafowl, Tuussino), trim the feathers, glaze the larding, and serve the bird on a hot dish, with a little clear brown gravy under it. Garnish the dish with watercress, and send broad sauce to table in a tureen. Per gilin.—The common penguin is the size of a duck; the great pen- guin is as large as a goose. It is only used as food in rare circumstances. Pennant describes the Patagonian pen- guin as follows :—“ They are very fat, but taste fishy, not unlike our puffins. As they are very full of blood their heads must be cut off as soon as killed, that it may run out. They must also bo flayed, or the flesh is scarcely eatable. When salted, it is good food, and takes the place of salt beef or pork for long voyages and in times of scarcity. Pheasant.—The pheasant, almost more than any other bird, requires to be hung as long as it possibly can be with safety. When this is done, the flesh acquires a delicious flavour, peculiar to itself; when it is not done, the flesh is tough and flavourless. The length of time that the bird should be kept de- pends, of course, upon the state of the ■weather. In cold, frosty weather three weeks may be safely permitted; in warm, damp weather four or five days will probably be found sufficient. As a general rule, the bird is ready for the spit when it begins to smell slightly, and to change colour; cer- tainly it should never be cooked until the blood begins to drop from the bill. The hen pheasant is more delicate in flavour than the cock. The old birds may be known by tho length and sharpness of the spurs, which in tho young ones are short and round. Young pheasants are, of course, to be preferred. Some writers of note declare that an English dish of pheasant is never so perfect as it ought to be, the damp of the climate preventing the birds hanging long enough to attain- the flavour which they otherwise wotdd. Cost, about 6s. per brace, but are often higher. Pheasant, to Truss.—Pheas- ants may be trussed either with orGAME AND POULTRY. 437 without the head; modem fashion is in favour of the latter plan. The thighs of the bird are brought eloso under the wings, a skewer is then passed through the pinion, body, and leg; the other side being fastened in the same way. The legs are then tied firmly down. If it is preferred to retain the head (though there is nothing to recommend the custom), it must be brought round under the wing, and fixed on the point of a skewer, with the bill laid across the breast. A slit must bo made in the hack of the neck for the removal of the crop. "When the head is taken off leave plenty of skin on the neck to skewer back. Pheasant a la Bonne Femme.—Pick, draw, and singe a well-hung pheasant, and put it into a buttered stewpan with three ounces of good beef dripping and six ounces of ham, fat and lean together, cut into inch squares. Fry over a gentle fire until the pheasant is equally and lightly browned all over, then add a table- spoonful of chutney and three or four large Spanish onions cut into thin slices. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently until the pheasant is done enough, and the onions are quite soft. Put the bird on a hot dish. Beat the onions over the fire for eight or ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and put them round the bird. Serve immediately. Time, about an hoar to stew the pheasant, longer for an old bird, for the cooking of which this homely dish is to be recommended. Cost, about 3s. fid. to 4s. Pheasant a la Sainte Alli- ance.—Required : a pheasant, and a staffing as below, gravy, sauce, &c. Cost, very variable. This dish has been declared by its originator to be fit for beings better than men. Take a well-hung pheasant (cock), draw and truss it for roasting. Mince the flesh and intestines of two wood- cocks or snipes; add two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, a small bunch of savoury herbs, finely powdered, and as many chopped truffles as will be required. Stuff the bird with this, and truss it firmly; roast before a clear fire, basting liberally with fresh butter. Lay .under it in the pan a round of toasted bread, upon which spread a little of the stuffing. Serve the bird on this, and send brown gravy and bread sauce to table separately. Time, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to size. Many variations of this recipe arc in existence ; in some a little anchovy paste with the other ingredients for the stuffing is given. In others, anchovy on the toast only is said to bo good; and by a few writers, shalots or onions are favoured. Pheasant a la Stein way.— Required: a pheasant, larding bacon, truffles and seasoning, stock, glaze, gravy, sherry, and a crouton. Cost of bird, about 3s. Truss a nice bird, lard the breast, and put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a small bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and some slices of truffle, carrot, and celery, with a morsel of onion. Cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and in ten minutes, when the pheasant has browned a little, put in a gill and a half of stock, No. 17 ; cover, and cook for half an hour or so, basting a time or two, and adding a little more stock if needed. When done, dish the bird and crisp the breast; glaze it a little and add more gravy to that in the pan. Boil it up, and put in a tablespoonful of truffles in fine shreds. Put a few whole truffles on the dish ; they should be equal in size, and braised first in a little sherry. Stick some of the tail feathers in, and place the pheasant on an oval crouton, cut with a crimped cutter, and glazed after frying. Time to cook the pheasant, nearly an hour. In dishes of tins description a few minutes more than the necessary time is of less importance than in tho case of a roasted bird, the gravy preventingUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 438 dryness. Still it is not desirable to actually overcook it. Pheasant, Boiled.—Sometimes invalids find a boiled pheasant an agreeable dish ; it can hardly be called an epicure’s relish. The bird should be nicely prepared, trussed for boiling, and wrapped in a sheet of buttered paper, then a cloth, and put in hot or nearly boiling water, with a few game bones, and slices of fresh vegetables; the boiling must be gentle; an hour will be wanted for an old bird; half an hour to forty minutes will cook a young one. Celery sauce, oyster, sou- bise, and white sauces of various kinds may be served with it. Pheasant, Braised, and Rump steak.—Required : a phea- sant, bacon, forcemeat as under, season- ing and vegetables, stock and beef steak. Cost, from 6s. Gd. to 7s. Gd. on an average. Pick, draw, and singe a pheas- ant, and truss it as for boiling. Put into it a little forcemeat made with three ounces of finely-grated bread- crumbs, two ounces of fresh butter, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a few drops of anchovy essence, and a little salt, pepper, and cayenne. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, and fasten them on securely with twine. Take two pounds of good rump-steak, three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay two or three slices of fat bacon on this. Rub the inside of a good-sized saucepan with a clove of garlic. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in it, put in the beof, and round it a dozen chestnuts which have been skinned and scalded. Lay the pheasant upon it, breast upper- most, add a scraped carrot, three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery cut into small pieces, four shalots, a good-sized lump of sugar, a small teaspoonful of pepper, half a teaspoonful of mustard, a teanpoonful of anchovy sauce, a teaspoonful of soy, and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Pour over these rather less than a pint of hot stock, good ; No. 5 is suitable. Cover closely, bring the contents to a boil, then draw the pan to the side, and let them simmer as gently as possible for quite three hours. Serve the beef and the phea- sant on separate dishes, and as hot as possible, with a little of the gravy strained over the pheasant, and the rest in a tureen. The nuts should be used to garnish tho beef. If an acid flavour is liked, the juico of half a lemon may be added to the gravy, and a little salt put in if necessary, but this will depend upon the quality of the bacon. Glaze tho breast of the pheasant before serving, remove the bacon, and take care to skim the gravy well. If the breast bo larded, the sliced bacon can be dispensed with. Pheasant, Cold, with Fruit Salad.—Cut a cold bird into joints, and trim them nicely. Make a fumet of any remnants, and put in a little strong aspic, just to set it; it should be poured over tho pieces when on tho point of setting, just to give them a bright appearance. Put some sprigs of watercress about the dish, and send cherry salad to table separately. Any other fruit salad may be substituted as preferred. Cost, from 4s. to 5s. Pheasant, Cold, with French Plums. — Required : a pheasant, French plums, and salad, &c., as below. Cost, from 4s. Gd. upwards. Prepare the meat as above directed, but put the joints in the centre of a dish, and place stewed French plums round the base (see Fruit). On the top of the meat, which should be dished in a pile, put a few more plums, with any green salad round ; tarragon and chervil look nice, and if nothing else is handy, use fresh parsley. A few fancy slices of beetroot look bright amongst it; they should be seasoned with oil and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. For other dishes see Salads. A pheasant, plainly roasted, nicely glazed and dished, accompanied by watercress, or some equally simple garnish, is declared by some authorities439 GAME AND POULTRY. to be one of the nicest breakfast dishes ever sent to table. Pheasant, Cream of (*<■« Par- tridge, Cream of). Pheasant, Curried.—Required: a fine pheasant, a quart of good stock, as No. 5, a heaping teaspoonful of good curry paste, an ounce of fine rice Hour, a large onion, a bay leaf, some thyme, and a sprig of marjoram and basil, a teaspoonful of raw, grated carrot, the same measure of preserved tamarinds, the juice of half a lemon, and some butter, or curry fat. By the latter is meant the fat which rises to the top of curry sauce; it should be taken off, and left to get cold; it then comes in for the next curry, and is belter than plain butter. Cost, 4s. to 4s. fid. Joint the pheasant, trim the pieces, and put the odds and ends on to boil with the stock. Fry the joints with the onion and herbs ; when brown, put them with the rest, except the rice flour. When done, pass all through a hair sieve, after piling the meat on a dish; return to the pan, and skim well; add the thickening and boil up ; put in salt to taste, and pour over the pheasant. Put a border of rice on the dish. For a better curry, use stock No. 13. Curried pheasant is excellent when cold. A large tomato may be added to the above with advantage, and if the curry paste is not fresh, a good pinch of coriander seed will improve it. A little sherry is sometimes put in game curries. Pheasant with Macaroni.— Required: the meat from a cooked bird, or the remains of one; about half a pound, after freeing it from skin and sinews. Put it aside after cutting it small, and boil down the bones with a pint of water, and some vegetables and herbs, until only a gill is left; rub any meat through a strainer with the gravy to thicken it. Then mix in the pheasant, re-heat it, and add a gill or less of boiling cream. Serve with a border of good macaroni, cooked in either of the ways given in a later chapter. Sprinkle with coralline pepper just before serving. Cost, from 3s. fid. to 4s. Pheasant, Roasted. — Pluck, draw, and singe a brace of pheasants. Wipe them with a dry cloth, truss them firmly, and either lard them or tie round the bx-easts a slice of fat bacon. Flour them well, put them before a clear fire, and baste liberally the whole time. Serve the birds on a hot dish, and gax-nish with water- cress. Send good brown gravy and bread sauce to table with them. If the fashion is liked, half a dozen of the best of the tail feathers may be stuck into the bird when it is dished. Time, three quartei's of an hour to roast a good-sized pheasant; half an hour for a small bird. Cost, from 6s. per brace on an average. To carve the bird, stick the fork in the centre of the breast, and take slices from both sides. Should there be moro guests than can be thus served, take off legs and wings as from a fowl. Cut off the merry-thought, by pa sing the knife under it; this, and the wings and breast are most highly prized, but the legs have a superior flavour. Some portions of the back should bo fcrvcd with the breast, wings, and merry-thought; the while meat alone, without this, is rather tasteless, comparatively speaking. The bacon may be removed or not (when larded) just as preferred. Pheasant. Stuffed and Roasted.—Pick, draw,and singe the pheasant, truss it as for roasting, and fill it with a forcemeat (sec Force- meats). Cover the breast of the bird with thin slices of fat bacon tied on securely with twine, and roast befoi'e a clear fire. When it is done enough, serve the pheasant on a hot dish, with brown sauce, or with brown mushroom or Italian sauce. Or a nice pux'ee of tomatoes, mixed with good gravy and sherry, equal parts of each, is excellent with it. Cost, from 4s. Gd. upwards.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 440 Pigeons.—Tamo pigeons should bo cooked in a frosh condition; they quickly lose flavour. Wood pigeons are larger; those may hang a day or two. Rock pigeons are inferior to both those. Young birds are the best. They may be tested by the wings, which will not be fully fledged inside; the feet will be smooth, and the beak soft. Rough feet prove age. Dark-coloured birds are the fullest in flavour ; light ones are the most delicate. Cost, from 9d. to Is. on an average; may sometimos bo bought for 6d. each. Pigeons, Trussing. — Pigeons need to be very carefully plucked and cleaned, and they should, if possible, be Fig. 101.—Pigeons, Trussed. drawn as soon as they are killed. To truss for roasting Cut off the head and neck, cut off the toes at the first joint, and wash the birds well. Dry them carefully, truss the wings over the back, and pass a skewer through the wings and body. The gizzard may be cleaned, and put under one of the wings. To truss for boiling:—Cut off the legs at the first joint, put the legs into the body, and skewer the pinions back. To carve a pigeon, cut through the breast and back-bone ; or make three portions of one bird, by taking the leg and wing from each side, the breast making a third serving, by no means to be despised if plump. Pigeons, Boiled.—Truss like a fowl, and boil in the same way. Serve a nice sauce with them, and some vegetables, or macaroni, or any other Italian paste. Time, from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to size. The cooking must bo slow'; and, if possible, veal stock, or the liquor from boiled veal, should bo used for the boiling. Pig eons, Broiled. — Pigeons may Be broiled whole, or split open and flattened. They are more easily cooked when flattened, but retain their juice better if left whole. Pluck, draw, singe, and evas’ the birds. Dip in some oil or clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire until nicely browned. Baste once or twice ; and, in order to do this, put the pigeons on a plato, and brush them over rather liberally with oil or butter ; and w'hen done serve as hot as possible. Mushroom sauce or puree, piquant sauce, and many others, may be served. If cold sauce is liked, maitre d’hote], tartare, and others, may be served; tomato butter is ex- cellent with broiled birds generally. To be worth the trouble of broiling, •pigeons must be well grown and well fed. Fried bread-crumbs or croutons may be used for garnish. Another way.—Truss the birds for boiling, and put in each a bit of butter, seasoning, and a teaspoonful of gravy and tomato pulp mixed. Secure both ends, and broil or grill carefully ; when half done dip in butter, and coat with crumbs. Thus prepared they bring their sauce to table; but if liked, a little gravy and tomato pulp may be heated together, and poured on a hot dish before the birds are put on. Or a crofiton may be spread with the pulp only. Put sprigs of cress about the dish. Pigeons with Chestnuts.— Tho birds should be filled with chest- nut forcemeat, and sent to table with brown gravy. Or the usual way of roasting without stuffing may bo adopted ; then the}' should bo dished on a chestnut puree, or served with sauce. Cost, about Is. 3d. each, inclusive.441 GAME AND POULTRY. Pigeons, Curried.— Follow the directions given for rabbit, fowl, &c., either for raw or cooked pigeons. Pigeons, Fricasseed, Brown. —Required: pigeons, seasoning,butter, stock, claret, and garnish asbelow. Cost, about 3s. 9d., exclusive of the garnish. Take three plump young pigeons; make them ready for boiling, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Put them into a stewpan with three ounces of clari- fied butter, and turn them about until they are brightly browned all over. Take them up, drain them well, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a pint of nicely-seasoned stock, No. 6, 7, or 8, and a glass of claret. Add a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, three inches of thin lemon rind, five or six small onions, a little pepper and salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the pigeons stew gently for half an hour; take them up, thicken the liquor with brown thickening, and add a few small mushrooms and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. When the sauce is smooth, heat the birds in it again, dish them, and pour the gravy over them. This dish may he varied in several ways. A few veal forcemeat balls may be boiled in the gravy, or a dozen oysters may be fried and laid over the birds, and the dish may be gar- nished with sliced lemon croutons, or curled bacon. Cost, about 3s. 9d. For a white fricassee, proceed as for fowl or veal. Pigeons, Fried in Batter.— If to be served whole, truss for boiling; if not, split them through, .and turn them about in a little hot fat for ten or fifteen minutes, first seasoning them ; or they may be stewed for a short time in a little stock. Then drain them, and dredge with flour; dip them into frying hatter (tee recipes), and plunge them into hot fat to cover them. The moment they are brown and crisp, serve, and garnish with fried parsley, or crisped bacon and lemons. Pigeons are very good fried plainly. They should be tossed in hot fat as above described, until done; or they may be partly cooked by stewing, then* left to cool, and finally egged and crumbed, and finished off as above. Tartare sauce is very good with them. Cost, 9d. to Is. each. Pigeons, Grilled, a la Cre- paudine.—Required : two pigeons, an ounce of butter, a saltspoonfui of pepper, a pinch of nutmeg or cayenne, a teaspoonful of chopped bay leaf, the same of parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, bread- crumbs, and adjuncts as below. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 2s. 9d. without sauce. Split down the back but do not divide the birds. Wash and dry them well, then flatten them. Heat the butter and the above seasonings together, and brush over, then dredge with fine crumbs. Grill over a very clear fire, then dish on a hot dish with a pat of mat ti c d’hotel butter on each. The gar- nish may be fried or grilled button mushrooms, or tomatoes, or potato ribbons or chips. If for a breakfast dish, no sauce or gravy is required, but for other meals should be served. This is a good emergency dish, as the time required is only about twenty minutes. If care be taken to baste well, the birds may be cooked in a good oven, or they are very nice broiled. When cold, they are excellent with tartare or other sharp sauce, or with tomato butter and any nice salad. Pigeons en Macedoines.— Required : three pigeons, a tin of mace- doines, or, what is still nicer, the same amount of mixed fresh vegetables, a tablespoonful of cooked button mush- rooms, cut in dice shapes, two or three tablespoonfuls of cooked macaroni in half-inch lengths, a little good brown sauce or gravy, and some dice-shaped croutons. Cost, about 4s. 9d. to 5s. Tho birds are to bo roasted and glazed, then jointed nicely. There should be a ring of fried or toasted bread on tho dish. Tho joints should bo neatly piled in this. Tho other442 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. materials are to be mixed, and put as an outer border, and tho croutons in little heaps about the dish. The gravy is served separately. A potato border can be used if preferred ; and, to vary the mode of serving, some of the macedoines can be put in the centre, with joints of pigeon round; the mac- aroni, with a sprinkling of parsley, should come next, the rest of the pigeons and macedoines forming the outer border. Pigeons en Papillotes,— Re- quired : pigeons, seasoning, and bacon as below. Cost, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. Prepare in the usual way two young, freshly-killed pigeons, and split them in two down the back. Season rather highly with pepper, and cover them with a mixture made of the liver finely minced, two shalots, chopped small, half a dozen sliced button mushrooms, a tablospoonful of chopped parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Lay thin slices of fat bacon over the mixture, and wrap each half in a sheet of thick paper, oiled on both sides ; twist tho ends ns shown in tho engraving. Broil or grill for about twenty minutes, and serve in the papers. They will require no sauce. If preferred the bacon may be in dice, and mixed with the liver, &c. Pigeons, Piquant.—Required: two pigeons, vinegar, seasoning, bacon, wine, an onion, thickening, stock, &c., ns below. Cost, about 2s. Cd. to 2s. 9d. Slice a large onion, and put it into a shallow dish with two ba}r leaves, twenty juniper berries, half a tea- spoonful of peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Lay two pigeons in this marinade, and turn and baste, them twice a day for two days. If the birds are old, they will need to remain in the marinado a day or two longer. Take them up, wipe them dry, and lard the breasts evenly, then put them, into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and turn them about over a moderate fire until they are brightly and equally browned. Lift them out, stir a spoonful of flour in with tho butter, and mix it briskly with a wooden spoon until it begins to colour, then add four ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces, the liver of the birds, a cupful of stock or water, the strained juice of half a lemon with an inch or two of the rind, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let this sauce boil, then put in the pigeons, cover them closely, and let them stow for half an hour. Servo the birds on a hot dish with the sauce poured round them. Time to stew, about an hour. This is a German dish. Pigeons, Piquant, with Salad. — Kequircd : a couple of pigeons, some piquant sauce, salad, and garnish, seasoning as under. Cost: from 2s. 6d. to 3s. Diride each bird into throe by removing the leg and wing of each side, then the breast. Tut tho backboned on with water, &c., to boil for stock, with which make a pint or so of piquant sauce, selecting the reoipe which best suits the palate. (See Sauces.) Sprinkle the birds with pepper, herbs, a grate of lemon peel and some lemon juice; leave them for half an hour, then grill or broil, and put them in the sauce for ten minutes to heat. Just before serving, colour the sauce with a few drops of carmine, and dish neatly. Put little tomatoes round (cooked in any piquant way), and send plain salad to table. Pigeons with Rice and Par- mesan.—For this the birds may be stowed until done, then dished on rice, Fig. 102.—Pigeon's en Bapillotf.s.GAME AND POULTRY. 443 boiled and flavoured with grated Par- mesan; recipes will be found in a later chapter. More rice is to be put over, and brushed with raw egg, then dredged with crumbs and cheese, and browned in a good oven. Macaroni, sparghetti, &c., are also used in this way. Cost, about Is. 3d. each, inclusive. Pigeons, Roasted. — Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, as many as are required ; wash them well, or they are very objectionable, and dry them thoroughly. They may be stuffed, or not (see recipes for Forcemeat) ; if they are, extra time must be given. They may be larded, or a slice of fat bacon can be tied over the breasts. They want a clear sharp fire; from twenty to thirty minutes must be al- lowed. For a small unstuffed pigeon fifteen minutes will be enough. Unless briskly roasted they will eat very differently ; for, although they should be well cooked, they should yield gravy when cut. Dish on a toast or crouton, and if the pigeons are not brown enough, brush them with glaze. Brown gravy is generally served, and bread sauce is still liked by many. Brown sauce, or any other that would go to table with fowls, will go equally well with pigeons. Gravy can be made as for fowl, using the gizzard, See., if not required for any other dish. (.Set also recipes under Rabbit.) Fora very superior dish, use any good brown stock for the gravy, as No. 18 or 17, seasoning and thickening to the de- sired consistency, and flavouring with a little wine, sherry, or Madeira. Cost, i)d. to Is. each for the birds. A vine leaf is sometimes put under the bacon previous to roasting. Pigeons, Stewed.— Required: two pigeons, stock, butter, thickening, See., as below. Cost, from 2s. 6d. up- wards. Pluck and prepare the birds, and divide into quarters. Put them in a saucepan with plain brown stock to nearly cover them; add a sprig of parsley and thyme, and a morsel of onion, if liked, and stew gently. When nearly done, add brown roux to mako the gravy as thick as cream. Serve with the gravy strained round them. Potato chips are a good addition. Another way.—Add a little cheese to the gravy, and serve with a border of rice cooked in stock. (See recipes under Rice. ) For a white stew, use white stock, and thicken with white roux, or a little cream or the yolk of an egg. Pigeons Stewed with Vege- tables.—Required: four plump young pigeons, white stock, bacon, vegetables, and acroustade as below. Cost, about 5s. Truss for boiling, and tie a slice of bacon over the breasts. Cook in white stock according to the directions given above, and while the birds are stewing prepare a mixture of vege- tables, such as carrots, turnips, beans, and cauliflower, and so arrange that they shall be done by the time the pigeons are. Take a square piece of bread, and cut it in a slanting di- rection, so that the top is two and a half and the bottom four inches square. It should he about three inches high. Then fry it and set it in the middle of the dish. Place one of the birds against each of the four sides of the bread. Arrange Ihe vegetables so as to hide the bread entirely. The top should be ornamented with the best sprigs of the cauliflower, or a few sprouts. Any good white sauce may be poured over the birds, and more served in a tureen. This is a very nice dish, and for a change the same recipe may be carried out with brown stock, and brown sauce of any kind suitable for serving with game or poultry. Many variations can bo made in the matter of the vegetables—artichokes, celery, and others can be added. Pigeons, Stewed, & la Beale. —Required: threo pigeons, butter, roux, wine, stock, vegetables and bacon, herbs, &c. Cost, about 4s. to 4 s. 6d. For each pigeon allow half an ounce of butter, mixed with a little salt, pepper, ground cloves, and nutmeg, a pinch of444 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. thyme and bay leaf in the finest pow- der, and a morsel of freshly-chopped parsley. Put this inside tho birds, then truss and brown them in a stew- pnn with a slice of minced bacon. Drain off the fat, coyer the birds with light wine and stock, No. 6 or 7, stew for a few minutes, then thicken to tho consistency of good cream. Put in a dozen button mushrooms (if tinned, add some of the liquor), and continue the cooking. Have ready some button onions, braised. (&« Dressed Vege- taiiles.) Have also in readiness a large oval crouton, cut with a crimped cutter, such as is used for vol-au- vents. Put it on a dish, put two pigeons on, and the other on the top, with the vegetables piled up round it. Reduce the gravy, season, and pour it over tho birds. Round the dish put some more of the same vegetables used at the top, together with little heaps of fried potatoes—chips or rib- bons. Time to stew, about forty minutes. The livers of the birds may be cooked in the gravy, and sieved or minced, and added with the butter. The latter will be more generally liked. Pigeons, Stuffed and Stewed. —Required : pigeons, stuffing, stock, seasoning, &e., as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. Pluck and draw two plump, freshly- killed young pigeons, and bone tho bodies and thighs; leave tho legs. Fill them with a liver, or other good stuffing. Lay them breast down- wards in a small stowpan, and barely covor them with veal stock. Let them stew gently until they are done enough, then take them up, strain the gravy, thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with two table- spoonfuls of cream, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Stir tho sauce over the fire until it boils, then thicken with two raw eggs, yolks only. Put the birds in to heat again. Time, nearly fifty minutes. Serve with the sauce over them. In order that the birds may look nice, they must bo firmly trussed. If more convenient, tho thighs can be left, and only the bodies boned. Pigeons en Surprise. — Re- quired : a couple of pigeons, two fine large lettuces, a forcemeat as under, stock, seasoning, and thickening. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Pick, draw, and truss the birds as for boiling. Put them in boiling water for five minutes, then take them out, and put in their place tho lettuces; let them boil for five to eight minutes. While they are cooking make a forcemeat with tho livers of the birds, a slice of bacon, two or three leaves of tarragon, two shalots, a tea- spoonful of parsley, salt and pepper, and the yolk of an egg. Take up the lettuces, drain, and press them, open them without taking off the leaves, and line them with the forcemeat, then put a pigeon in each so as to be hidden. Tie with thread, and stew in enough stock to cover. Herbs, a little carrot and onion, and a morsel of mace, as well as salt and peppercorns, should be used to flavour the gravy. When done, drain, and remove the thread. Keep hot, while tho sauco is strained and thickened with brown roux, then serve with the sauco round. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. A mushroom forcemeat may be used, and the gravy flavoured with mush- rooms. Pigeons with Watercress. —Lard tho breasts, and roast tho birds. Make a little good brown gravy. Put some watercress on a dish, and lay the pigeons on it, then pour a little of the gravy over. Or put the cress round, after dishing tho pigeons on separate croutons. Whenever the breasts of pigeons are neither larded nor bound with bacon, the insides should bo moistenod with a lump of butter, or they will eat dry; this is applicable to un- stuffed birds. When forcemeat is used into which ham and bacon enters, the fat takes tho place of the butter. Cost, about Is, 3d, each, inclusive.445 Game and poultry. Pintail, or Sea Pheasant.— This bird, though highly esteemed where it is known, is not common. It is considered best when roasted, and is cooked like an ordinary pheasant, great care being taken to baste it constantly. It should be sent to table with good brown gravy and a piquant sauce. It will of itself yield a good gravy if it is taken down when it has been roasted for about twenty-five minutes, dished, laid in front of the fire for a few minutes, and then served immediately. Cost, uncertain, sea-pheasants being seldom offered for sale. A very good salmi may be made from this bird. Plover.—This bird is somewhat smaller than the woodcock; the golden plover is the commoner, and the grey the larger of the two. Birds that are hard at the vent will be fat and good. The feet are dry when stale. Plovers have a peculiar flavour, much liked by some ; others find them very distasteful. They are best treated like woodcocks for roasting, and will take about fifteen minutes only at a brisk fire. They want constant bast- ing. The toast on which they are served should be saturated with the bastings and traiL Instead of brown gravy, some prefer an accompaniment of lemon juice mixed with a little good melted butter : or melted butter, sherry, and lemon juice, about a gill of the first to half a gill of the latter, mixed, is often liked. The eggs of the plover are very much esteemed, and are considered a luxury; see a later chapter for their treatment. Cost, abont Is. to Is. 6d. each, but variable. Plover3 with. Truffles.—Re- quired : a brace of plovers, two ounces of butter, stock and seasoning as below, and three or four truffles. Cost, about 3s. 6d. or 3s. 9d. Truss the birds, and put them breast down in a stewpan, with the truffles cut into thin slices; add the butter, a dove, a bay leaf, and a dust of cayenne ; stir and fry for ten minutes, then pour in some stock from poultry bones or from poultry and meat mixed, with a glass of sherry. Cook slowly, and when done add brown roux to thicken, with a little seasoning, and a squeezo of orange or lemon juice. Time, about half an hour. Dish with a gar- nish of croutons and watercress, and serve with lemons. If liked, stuff tho birds and mince the trails with the stuffing (see recipes for Forcemeat foii Game, &c.). For other dishes from plovers, see recipes under Woodcock and Snipe. Plovers with truffles, as in the abovo recipe, are liked very much, generally speaking, though others think that a roasted plover is perfection. “ Assum- ing,” says one writer, “ that redness, not blueness, is visible when cut, and that plenty of lemon juice be served, then no gravy is wanted; the drippings from the bird are enough in this direc- tion.” But on this point much differ- ence of opinion exists. Poultry, Basting of.—We have called attention to the necessity of pure, sweet dripping for basting purposes generally, in an early part of this work; but we would again impress upon the inexperienced cook the fact that if it be burnt, or of bad flavour, it will completely spoil poultry. In some works lard is recommended for basting; we would strongly urge, don't use it so long as you can get anything else. Good clarified fat is far preferable, and when butter is used for the frothing at the end, let that be sweet, or it is better dispensed with. If rancid, and only half an ounce be used, by coming in contact with the heated surface, a most disagreeable taste will be im- parted ; such tastes “ repeat ” all through a meal. Margarine is better than inferior butter. Poultry, to Bone.— This oper- ation is more difficult than boning a joint. Tho first requirement is a strong knife, broad and thick, with a sharp point, and by no means flexible.446 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. A knifo which can he readily bent is apt to slip; indeed, such a knife would he useless, even to just split a fowl down the back for grilling. The next thing is a steady hand. Boning is an art that cannot he acquired in any other way than by repeated trials; it is seldom that success crowns one’s first effort; but even if the bird he spoiled, i.e. supposing the flesh gets cut, no great harm is done, as it will make an excellent stew for a home dinner, and the bones will yield nutri- ment, both in the form of gravy and soup. Indeed, if any sceptical person wishes to prove the truth of the oft- repeated assertion that there is a great deal of goodness in hones, a few ex- periments with those of a fowl will re- sult in conviction. Again, after a first or second attempt at boning a fowl, however hacked may be the flesh, it will make an excellent pie. For de- tails we refer tho reader to page 400. Some writers say that written details for honing are useless. We agree that one practical lesson is of greater value than pages of written description ; hut as it is not in everyone’s power to obtain this, we have made our di- rections us explicit as possible, in the hope that they will he found prac- ticable. Poultry, to Joint and Bone. •— It often happens that a fowl or turkey is required boned for a rich dish, as a curry, fricassee, or pie; it must then he very nicely jointed, as de- scribed on page 405, then honed care- fully. The main thing is to begin at the head of the large bones. Take the legs, cut the skin round the first joints, and pull them out; then work the point of tho knife round the thigh hones; loosen the flesh, and go on until the bone comes out. Cut the pinions off the wings, hone the upper joints, and then take off the breast meat, either in fillets, or cut the hone through, and remove the flesh in larger pieces. Keep the back for gravy or stock; also tho giblets. In honing a rabbit, the neck should be stewed for use in tho same way. The legs, shoulders, and back may be honed with ease in the case of a young, fleshy animal; if old and tough the process is difficult. Poultry, to Sweeten. — A popular method across the “ herring pond” is to add to the last water in which a fowl, turkey, or goose is washed, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. It is particularly recommended for birds which may have been kept full long before drawing, and for re- moving any unpleasant odour which may “ hang around the hind-quarters.” This remedy deserves trial on account of its simplicity; but we would say that few things surpass, or even equal, a little permanganate of potash—a bird rinsed through with this must be very foul should it fail to acquire sweetness and purity. The best way to perform tho operation, so as not to soak and dis- colour the outer flesh, is to add enough of tho potash to cold water to given deep pink tinge : then to pour it through the bird, rinsing in every part. Finally, plenty of clear water must be poured: through, and the interior well dried. If to be stuffed this should be done some time beforehand. More than one writer declares em- phatically that the custom of bringing poultry to market undrawn ruins the flavour of the flesh ; others assert that poultry drawn as soon as killed would not keep, and that tho flesh would be- come dry. One thing is certain, viz,, that the entrails are often left in the bird much longer than they ought to be. Poultry, Boiled.—If youth bo guaranteed, the turkey, fowl, or rabbit should go into boiling water at first. If any fear of toughness, owing to age, warm, or even tepid water only must be used, that the muscles may bo re- laxed, and tenderness brought about by the gradual heating. Here there • will bo some loss of nutriment and flavour naturally, consequently the pot liquor should always be used, Very old poultry should not be boiled •game and poultry. 447 at all, for the simple reason that to make it eatable, cold water would have to be used. In such eases other methods are preferable, as will bo shown. Stock, in place of water, is to bo recommended — suitable stock, of course; for instance, if a bit of veal were boiled one day, and the next a boiled rabbit were on the bill of fare, the veal stock would come in nicely for the rabbit. A chirk, strong stock, on the other hand, would spoil a spring chicken, as in all dishes of this sort colour is a desideratum. Skimming is necessary, and very frequent skimming, too; and the cleanest of clean pots must go hand in hand with this. The water, if water only be used, should be flavoured a little by the ad- dition of a bit of celery and the inside of an onion. To assist in keeping the meat white, a rub over with a piece of lemon should not be forgotten, and by wrapping a sheet of buttered paper or muslin round the bird or rabbit, mois- ture and good colour are ensured. Some recommend that a cloth be used also : others condemn it; and our own opinion is that a cloth is not calculated to improve the flavour of the pot liquor, to say the very least; and with re- ference to some cloths, it is not too much to say that they would spoil it entirely. Where thin, delicately- clean cloths are kept for the purpose, there is nothing to be said against their use. Perhaps the best thing is a buttered paper and a piece of muslin tied over that; the kind known as -■ butter muslin ” does very well, and is cheap enough to discard after a few times using; it will then come in for making bags to hold herbs and spices. if the poultry is intended for a cold dish, leave it in the liquor until cool, and enable it to re-absorb moisture and flavour. If bones have been cooked with it (as in the case of a boned bird), it must not be left until quite cold, or it would become a jelly. Poultry, Minced and Rolled. —This dish is excellent, and par- ticularly recommended as a good way to use an old fowl or part of a turkey. Required : the flesh of tho legs, wings, and breast, two or three ounces of bacon for each pound, or fat pork will answer, an egg, a couple or three tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs, stock and seasoning as below. Cost, variable. Some hours beforehand, put tho bones on for stock, with the gib- lets and some herbs and vege- tables to flavour, and a little spice: add a couplo of quarts of water, and boil until reduced to rather less than a quart. Chop the meat, and mix with the crumbs, eggs, salt, and pepper, and some herbs, grated lemon peel, and the juice of half a lemon, as tho latter helps to make it tender ; use pepper freely and salt sparingly. Form a bolster-shaped roll,, and brush it with the white of the egg, then coat with crumbs. Brown it for a few minutes in a little hot fat, then drain and put it in the stock, and Btew for three hours or thereabouts. When done, flavour and thicken some of the stock for gravy and pour round the roll. Add more water to tho bones and cook for some hours; with the stock from the roll, the basis of a tureen of good soup will be at hand, or it will make good gravies, &c. Note.-'—The above is a very good way of cooking an old rabbit. A little thick onion or cfelery sauce may be used in the roll, then fewer crumbs will be needed. Parsley and other herbs are to be added to taste. Flavoured vinegar may replace the lemon juice. Poultry, Minced, with Eggs. —Required : poultry', eggs, hum, seasoning, milk, slock, cream, &c., as below. Cost, variable. This is a first-rato dish for breakfast or luncheon. Tho recipe hails from Chicago. To every pound of cooked fowl, rabbit, or turkey, allow a pint of sauce made as follows, and two or three ounces of cooked ham. First mince tho meat; let no skin or gristly bits remain, then the meat may bo white or brown ;tNIVEftSAu COOKERY BOOK. 448 cover it (after seasoning it with pepper, herbs, and spice at discretion). For the sauce, stew down any hones with the skin and gristle; strain it, and put equal measures of that and milk into a saucepan. For a pint, stir in, when it boils, bit by bit, two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour, mixed to a paste with cream ; a little of each alternately. Then mix in a teaspoouful each of chopped parsley and bruised capers, first drawing the pan aside. Next press the yolks of throe hard-boiled eggs through a coarse sieve, and stir the sauce to them, in a large bowl, very gradually; add the minced poultry and the cooked ham; the latter should be passed through a mincing machine. Stir, and if not flavoured sufficiently, a few drops of anchovy essence may be mixed in. Chop the whites of the eggs rather coarsely; then set the bowl over boiling water; put a plate over, and let the contents get hot; pour into a deep, well-heated dish, and shake the chopped whites over in little pieces, after moistening them with hot cream. Put parsley here and there, and garnish the base of the dish with chopped pickles or cut lemons, or with tiny balls made of stuffing or sausage meat; or in any other way according to fancy. Little egg balls or sausages have a pretty effect, and are very suitable. Poultry, Ragout of (American). —Required: poultry, gravy, jelly, thickening, &c.,asbelow. Cost, variable. This is a nice dish for breakfast; it also makes very tasty little patties, &c. Take any of the meat, brown or white, from poultry of any sort, that has been roasted or baked; cut it in nice even dice, or strips. For each pound, allow from two to three gills of brown gravy, or stock from poultry bones; put it in a saucepan, and make it thick with browned flour, about an ounce; stir in a little pun- gent store sauce, and salt to taste, and a good tablespoonful of cranberry jelly; or currant, tomato, or other sort does equally well. If liked, put in a spoonful of wine, but it is very good without it. Stir the meat in, and leave covered for a short time, then serve hot, with bits of toast stuck round the dish, and slices of grilled tomato in between them, if their flavour be approved. The foregoing may be scalloped. First grease a deep dish, and cover with cracker-crumbs that havo been moistened with milk or gravy to form a paste; add the mince (the gravy should be made thick enough to bind it), and then put more crumbs on the top ; these should bo soaked like tho lower layer, but are preferably mixed with a beaten egg. Put a few bits of butter over, and bake brown in a sharp oven. Any plain biscuits will serve for the crumbs. Veal is excellent as above ; so is a mixture of ham, with veal or poultry. Prairie Hen,—Prairie hens are sent from America, and may be treated like a fowl, or as a pheasant. The insides must be washed, and a rinse with soda or potash is a good sweetener. (See Poultry, to Sweeten.) If pre- pared like a fowl, the usual adjuncts are required; if like a pheasant, a brown sauce, with a little claret, and enough orange or lemon juice to suit tho palate, is one of the best. The bird is improved by larding; it wants well basting, and will take an hour or more, according to size. Cost, very uncertain. Ptarmigan.—This is found in cold, bleak situations, and is keenly sought by many sportsmen. Its flesh has a peculiar flavour, much relished by some, and disliked by others. It should be hung as long as possible. Ptarmigan is nearly the same size as red grouse. Roast, and serve the sumo as grouse; baste liberally, and send to table hot. Cost, uncertain; from Is. to Is. 6d. is the average when plentiful. Quails.—These little birds aro great favourites with many people. They form the foundation of many rich dishes, but simply roasted are an449 GAME AND I'OUI.TlH*. excellent dish. They aro loss rave than formerly, vast quantities being imported by English poulterers. They may be kept for a few days after killing. "When plentiful, the cost is from Is. to Is. 6d. each. In the opinion of if. Ude and others, quails are popular because somewhat rare. Quails, Boned.—It is, perhaps, only possible to give a general idea of this process, by describing it as working the knife to the bone in such a way that the birds may be literally turned inside out. One practical lesson in the matter of boning any small birds is worth much written description. To bone without opening is the most diffi- cult ; but by shirting from the neck, first using the fingers to “ ease ” the flesh, and with care, it is quite possi- ble to avoid cutting through the outer flesh; though few will succeed in the first attempt. The pinions should be cut off, and the leg-bones may be left in; the thigh-bones must be removed. If to be served in halves, the birds may be split through before boning them. Quails, Boned and Stuffed, Cold.—Required : three birds, some liver forcemeat («er Forcemeats), sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, variable, about 5s. 6d. to 6s. 6d., or more. Bone the birds without opening—that is, work the knife from the neck; do not split them down the back ; fill them from a forcing bag. Roll them in buttered paper after trussing, and bake on a buttered tin in a brisk oven. Let them get cold, and cut them through, then mask the outsides with brown chaudfroid sauce, and sprinkle it over with chopped French gherkin and hard- boiled white of egg. Spread the flat sides with white chaudfroid, and sprinkle with the yolks of the eggs, sieved ; put a bit of truffle in the centre. Have a plain aspic border; put five halves round it, in couronne, and fill the border with a cooked macedoine of vegetables. Half a bird should go underneath. Mask the top with good mayonnaise, and garnish with the o same materials used for the birds. The outside of the border may bo decorated either with salad or chopped aspic, or with plovers’ eggs in aspic if thoy aro to be had. This is a very nice dish ; it may be served as an entree. Quails, Boned and Stuffed, Hot.—Cook the birds as above, and dish them whole on a rice block or border. Mask them with good brown sauce, flavoured with sherry, and put watercress about the dish. Or cut them through with a sharp knife, smoothing them nicely ; dish in a pile, and pour sauce or gravy over. For dishing, a crouton ora ring of fried bread should be used, and some truffles aro a nice garnish. Cost, about Is. Dd. each, inclusive. For other methods of serving, sec Pigeons. Quails, Braised. — Required : quails, stuffing, sherry, stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 9d. each. Remove the trails and livers of as many birds as are needed; chop them with half their bulk of fat bacon; add a tablespoonful of fine bread-crumbs for four birds, season with fine herbs and pepper; moisten with a teaspoonful of sherry for each. Take out the bones (leave the wings untouched), and fill the birds; sew them up, and brush with butter; cook before a sharp fire until half done; then lay them in a stewpan, and pour good sherry and clear stock mixed to half their depth. Finish the cooking, and add a morsel of glaze and roux to the gravy, to thicken it very slightly. Serve with the gravy round, and fried crumbs in a boat. A morsel of shalot or onion, scalded, may be pounded and mixed with the stuffing. Quails, Broiled or Grilled.— The birds should bo split down the back, and well flattened, then seasoned with white pepper and salt and a little lemon j uice, and moistened with a tea- spoonful of warmed butter for each bird. If time permits they should bo left for a time before cooking. Then cook over or before a very dear fire.450 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Turn every half minute, and do not let them get dry. When done rub more butter over the breast, and sprinkle with lemon juice. Serve breasts upwards on pieces of toast or fried bread, and garnish with watercress. Slices of lemon should be laid about the dish. Birds so cooked within an hour of being killed arc thought by some to be bettor than those that have been kept. Quails, Fried.—Required : quail, bread, batter, frying fat, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, very variable. The birds are to be split, and prepared as for roasting. Then season some Hour with a little salt and a hint of cayenne, and dip the halves of quail in melted butter, thou in the flour, and shake off all that does not adhere. Cook in a frying-pan in a little hot fat, which may be butter, oil, or goal clarified fat. After the first minute, reduce the heat, that the birds may cook through without burning. Another way.—The birds should bo roasted until half done, then left to cool, and be coated with seasoned frying batter, and plunged into enough hot fat to cover, and removed when a golden brown. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley and sliced lemons. - Another way.—Let the birds mari- nade in a mixture of oil, salt, chopped parsley, lemon juice, and a dust of cayenne, with just a suspicion of sluilot or onion. Then coat with beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs, and fry in fat to cover. They should be first roasted or baked until partly done, and left to cool. Quails, Boasted.—It is optional whether the trail be left in or not. In the opinion of many, a quail without its trail is worthless. Pluck and singe, take the head off, and the neck-bone and crop out. Truss by pressing the legs to the body, pass a skewer through the thighs and pinions, but first cut the latter off at the first joint. Rub them over with clarified butter, and tie a vine leaf on the breast; cover this with a slice of fat bacon, then roast for ten or twelve minutes; fifteen minutes if liked well done. When several are cooked at once, a largo skewer may be passed through, but space must be left between. This may bo laid in a tin before a brisk fire, or arranged as most convenient, so that the birds get evenly cooked. Dish each on a piece of toast or fried bread; if the birds have not been drawn, toast is most suitable, it should bo laid under them to catch the trail. Remove skewers, but leave the vine leaves and bacon; send gravy to table in a boat, also a dish of fried crumbs. Lemon and watercress may be used for garnishing. Another way.—In drawing, take out the trail and livers; cook these in a little pan with a morsel of butter; pound them, and season with salt and pepper; spread on toast just before dishing the birds. Babbit. — There are two sorts-- the tame and the wild. Tame rabbits are the larger of the two, with the flesh white and delicate. Of these the Ostond rabbits are most highly valued, but tame rabbits are very distasteful to some. Rabbits are highly esteemed for food, and are valuable because they can be served in so many ways. As the meat is rather dry, bacon is generally served with them. When used for the table they should be young, and should not have been kept more than a day or two. M. Udo gives some additional particulars on this head “ It is to be observed,” ho says, “ that warren rabbits only ought to be sent up to a good table, tame rabbits in general having no flavour but that of cabbage; and you must be par- ticular in using for table only young rabbits. Whether they are so may be ascertained by breaking the jaw be- tween the thumb and finger; if they are old, they resist the pressure. Also by feeling in the joint of the paw for a little nut; if it is gone, the rabbit is old, and not fit for fine cookery. In such cases use them to make rabbit puddings or pies.” In all our recipes wo shall assumoGAME AND POULTRY. 451 the use of wild rabbits; they may be followed for tame ones—but wo advise that if any difference be made, the seasoning may with advantage be in- creased ; for to disguise, rather than bring out. the flavour, will the better suit the majority. Cost, from Is. to Is. 9d. (See Rahiiit, Liveit or.) Rabbit, Baked.— Required : a rabbit, bacon, forcemeat, gravy, thick- ening, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. (id., exclusive of jelly. The rabbit should be plump and young. .Skin, empty, and wash it, and line the inside with a thin slice or two of fat bacon, then fill with any plain herb or veal stuffing. Sew it up and truss firmly (seepage 456),andlay a slice or two of bacon on the back. Lay it in a deep baking tin, to prevent dry- ness, and cook in a moderate oven. Baste often with a little bacon fat or dripping, and when almost done, flour and baste the rabbit, and brown it nicely. Take out the thread and skewers, and put it on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy or sauce over, and send more to table in a tureen. Red currant or other fruit jelly is a great improvement, and the dish may be garnished with sliced bacon. A large, old rabbit is not good this way ; only a tender one will give satisfaction. Another way.—Instead of stuffing the rabbit, bake it plainly, and serve some sausages with it. Time, if stuffed, from three-quarters to an hour; for an unstuffed one, a trifle less. Note.—Many vegetable purees and sauces are very nice with the rabbit; celery, onion, and carrot may be in- stanced ; bread sauce with brown gravy also affords a pleasant change. If no bacon, use plenty of dripping. Rabbit, Barbecued —Required: a very; young rabbit (if old this dish is a positive failure), seasoning, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Open the rabbit all down, cut its head off, and wash it again and again until clean, then lay it, back down, in cold water, with a bit of salt, for an hour. Dry it thoroughly, and leave it for on hour or two ; then cut it several times across the back, and once in the thick part of each leg. Then dip it entirely in hot fat, and cook it before flic fire, or on a gridiron. It must be turned frequently, and well brushed with fat during the cooking, and will take from twenty' to thirty minutes. It should be peppered before cooking. When brown and tender, put it on a hot dish with plenty' of seasoning, and some clarified butter ; put a cover over, and set it in a hot oven for a few minutes. Mix together a teaspoonful of French mus- tard, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a small quantity' of gravy, made from the head, put on early in the day'. Heat this, and pour it over the rabbit. Put it on a clean hot dish, with slices of lemon, sprigs of fried parsley and little croutons round it. Send fruit jelly' to table in a dish. Any'one tired of ordinary dishes of rabbit may' try this with confidence. Rabbit, Boiled.—Wash the rab- bit, taking care to get any blood from the head and neck; plenty of water and long soaking are wanted. The head and neck should be left in the water longer than the rest of the body'; it is easy' to effect this by suspending the rabbit. Put it in boiling water, and flavour it in the usual way. (See Poultry, to Boil.) If the rabbit be soaked in warm milk for a short time, after washing, its flesh is improved. This is not wasteful—the milk can be used for the sauce ; mushroom, parsley, celery, onion, liver, or plain white sauce are suitable ; tomato is less common, but equally good. Boiled bacon or pickled pork should be served with the rabbit. Time, for a very young one, thirty minutes ; fora medium-sized one, forty to fifty minutes; an hour or more for a fully-grown rabbit. To carve a boiled rabbit, the logs and shoulders should bo separated from the body, which is then cut through the back into two or three pieces. Thu head and neck should bo served only to those to whom it is first ascertained that they will be acceptable; for while many452 UNIVERSAL COOlCEIiY BOOK. enjoy tlie picking- of a rabbit’s liead, otliers regard it as a most unsavoury- morsel. (See Babbit, to Truss.) Rabbit, Boned and Roasted. —See the directions given on page 424 for Hare. If preferred without bacon inside, it can be omitted, but the back of the rabbit must bo covered with slices of bacon; the legs, too, are all the nicer for this treatment. Brown gravy should be sent to table, and little rolls of bacon, with some small sausages, may be put about the dish ; or forcemeat balls can be used. The rabbit must be a fine one ; poor, skinny ones are not worth the trouble entailed by this method. Another way.—Bone the back only, and instead of forcemeat, fill the rabbit with tiny mushrooms, lightly cooked in butter, and seasoned with salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and a little nutmeg. Sew up, and bake or roast, using the butler from the mushrooms for the basting. Make brown gravy, and flavour it with good mushroom ketchup, or add some pickled mushrooms to it. Rabbit, Braised.—The method is described under Hake, Braised, and if expense be no object that recipe may be followed with certainty of satisfaction. For a cheaper dish, stock No. 1 or 2 will do, or second stock No. 3, which is very good for many braised dishes. A puree of red haricots is excellent with this; it should be moistened with the gravy from the rabbit. (See recipes and re- marks in the chapter on Vegetables.) If second stock be used, a little colour- ing will bo wanted; if common stock, a morsel of gelatine, or gelatinous meat is an improvement. Small sausages of pork or beef may be put about the dish ; or rolls of bacon if preferred. A piquant gravy is very good with this; the ingredients re- quired are the same as given for piquant sauces. Rabbit, Broiled (or Grilled). —The legs of a cooked rabbit are very nice for a breakfast dish, if scored and nicely seasoned, then brushed over with warm butter, and broiled or grilled ; a rabbit which has been boiled or steamed may be vciy successfully used up in this way. The recipes given under FowLand Tirkev can be followed. Another nice dish is to be had by boning the legs, and filling them with a little tomato or mushroom puiee, made firm by the addition of bread-ciumbs; a few stitches will bo required to hold the flesh together. The legs may then be broiled or grilled, or heated in devil sauce. A small quantity of cold sausage or minced meat, may be mixed in the puree. The legs should be dished on a crouton, or served with a bolder of fried or mashed potatoes. Tartare sauce is an excellent accom- paniment. Another way.—Required : the legs of a rabbit, a seasoning of mushroom powder, mustard, chopped shulot, herbs, and salt and pepper, stock or gravy, and mashed potatoes, with one of the adjuncts under-mentioned. Cost, about Gd., exclusive of the rab- bit. The rabbit le gs aie to bo heated in the stock or gravy, then gashed and seasoned, and covered with the mashed potato, or a little potato pastry (tec Vegetables). Then brown before the fire, or fry if preferred. Serve with grilled tomatoes, or fried onions, or a litllo cooked rice, &c. The shoulders and back of a rabbit arc equally good in any of the above ways, but wo refer to legs as they are more often left over. Rabbit, Dry Curry of.— In- quired : a rabbit, cream, butter, rice, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 2s. to 2s. Gd. Take some slices from the legs and back of a fino rabbit, which has been steamed or boiled until done, and left to get cold; dip them into cream, seasoned with cayenne and hot chutney, and a suspicion of dried bay leaf in fine pow- der. Melt in a pan from one to two ounces of fresh butter—in proportion to the quantity of meat—and add to it aGAME AND POULTRY. 453 dessertspoonful of curry paste for eit;ht to twelve ounces of rabbit. When well blended, put in the rabbit, and stir all the timo until it is well heated through, then put in salt to taste, a teaspoonful of onion juice, tho s nne of hot mango chutney (tho liquid portion only), and a little almond- milk or cocoa-nut milk, (do on stirring until tho rabbit is coaled with the compound, no liquid remaining in tho pan Have some boiled rico on a dish, hollow the centre, and put tho rabbit in. Send mango chutney, cayenne, and lemon juice to table, and sprinkle a few chillies and sultanas over the nco. With reference to the above, it i3 hardly necessary to say that it is excellent; we wish to point out that if a very young rabbit bo used, or a young chicken is equally suitable, tho preliminary cooking is not needed; hut tho tossing process has to be pro- longed ; therefore care is wanted, or tho meat will bum. This is a good luncheon dish. Rabbit, jET-icandeau of.— Required : a rabbit, bacon, stock, and tomatoes as below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. For this, take tho fleshy portion of a Large, fat rabbit—that is, the hind quarters and the loins cut off dose to the shoulder-blades. Lard the flesh evenly and closely, and lay it in a deep baking-dish. Pour upon it as much nicely-flavoured stock (No. 4 or 5) as will cover it, fasten a piece of buttered paper over the dish, and bake the rabbit in a moderate oven until it is quite tender, being careful to baste it frequently, and to add a little more stock if required. Lift the rabbit out of the gravy and keep it hot. Boil the liquor in which it was baked till well reduced. Have ready a teacupful of rich tomato puree. Spread this on a hot dish. Lay the rabbit upon it, pass a red hot shovel over the larding, to make it crisp, and pour the gravy- over all. Serve very hot. The rabbit may be cooked in a slew- pan if more convenient. Time, about an hour and a half. Serve a niuco of green vegetables in a separate dish, or put this under the rabbit, and send tho tomato puree to table in a sauco boat. Rabbit Galantine.—Required: rabbits, forcemeat, bacon, <Scc., as under. Cost, about 4s. This is a good dish for any meal, and an excellentsubstitute for Fowl Galan- tine ; it is, of course, much cheaper. Two rabbits are wanted; one should be large and the other small. Bono both ; they should be plump. Lay the largo one flat on a board; cut up the other; mix it with about half its bulk of force- meat (see recipes), and spread it over tho other ; or make a roll of it. Sew up in a roll, or the original shape may bo restored ; if tho first method be followed, draw the legs in to the body. Tie a few slices of bacon round, and sew up in a clean cloth, then follow tho directions given for galantines of Fowls, garnishing according to taste and requirements. Another way.—If only one rabbit be procurable, use veal for the filling, or yToung, tender pork ; or increase the forcemeat; unless well filled, it is not worth tho trouble. Rabbit, Hashed.—Required: cooked rabbit, sausages, bacon, vege- tables, gravy, &c., as under. Cost, variable. Take the remains of a rabbit that has been boiled, and some bacon or pickled pork, together with any sauce that may have been served with it. Slice the rabbit and bacon, a fourth of the latter will be enough, and heat them in the sauce; or if none is at hand, a little can bo made, or some white stock can be flavoured and thickened for the purpose. Sup- posing half a pound of rabbit to be used, hike tho same weight of pork sausages; twist them up to make each into two; boil them, or, better still, steam them. Serve the bash on a hot dish, with tho sausages round, together with little potato balls or cakes. Hard- boiled eggs are sometimes used. Another uuy.-—Mince tho bacon or pork, instead of slicing it, and re-454 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. ■warm it between two platos ; put it in little piles round the rabbit, omitting the sausages. Rabbit may also bo hashed or minced in the same svay as veal {see recipes under Poultry also). For a brown hash, use rabbit gravy, or make some piquant sauce ; re-heat the meat, and garnish the dish with croutons, or put a border of cooked vegetables round. A bit of jelly im- proves the gravy; a pint will be wanted for half to three-quarters of a pound of rabbit. Put fried force- meat balls about the dish if liked. Stew down the bones for the gravy. (See recipes under Hare and other sorts of game for superior dishes of this description.) Rabbit, Liver of.—With refer- ence to the livers of rabbits, a writer says that “as a rule, domestic rabbits, and particularly those from Ostend, abound in internal parasites. Wild rabbits are not so abundantly pestered, yet scarcely one out of every hundred is free from worms in or about the region of the liver. These resemble little bags of white of egg, each with a denser, opaque, milk-white spot upon it, altogether about the size of a pea seed. In fact, these little blobs of albumen are nothing more nor less than undeveloped tape-worms, waiting to be swallowed by some other warm- blooded animal, to grow in the intes- tines of the latter into the active agents of wasting disease; and their presence within the human economy cannot be "pictured with any feeling short of abhorrence.” These remarks may enforce the necessity of examin- ing all liver before using it, and of throwing it away if it looks the least suspicious. To submit it to the action of fast-boiling water for a minute or two, though not always needful, is certainly a wise precaution, and should bo remembered when to bo used in forcemeat, &c. Rp.bbit Pate. — Required : a boned rabbit, four ounces each of raw fat pork and lean veal, two ounces of cooked ham, a bay leaf, a shalot, a teaspoonful of parsley, fresh, half as much of powdered thyme, a tea- spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a pinch each of grated nutmeg, cayenne, and cloves, a glass of sherry, and a few slices of fat bacon. Cost, about 3s. 4d. Line a jarwiththe bacon; powder the bay leaf, chop the shalot; make all into a compact mass, just as directed for Teurine or Grouse. Fill the jar, and put more bacon on the top. Cook in a water bath for two hours and a half, and serve cold, with a garnish of salad or parsley. This is a good breakfast dish ; it also makos very nice sand- wiches. It is for immediate use only. Rabbit.Roasted.—Seethe recipe for Rabbit, Baked, and prepare it similarly, or fill it with chestnut force- meat. Basto often, and cover with bacon, unless the rabbit be larded, which is a great improvement. If liked, it may be roasted minus any stuffing; a good piquant sauce is then suitably served with it, and there should be plenty of garnish, in the shape of herb or sausage meat cakes. Time, an hour for a good rabbit. For better rocipes, see Hare, Roasted. If tenderness is doubtful, partly cook by stewing, steaming, or boiling first. {See Rabbit, to Truss.) Rabbit, Spanish way of Cooking.—Required : rabbit, onions, bacon, and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. 3d. to 2s. Gd. A stewpan or earthenware pipkin is taken, having a tightly-fitting cover, and of sufficient Bize to hold a couple of rabbits when cut up into small pieces; also fourmoderate-sized Spanish onions in thin slices. A layer of sliced onion and bacon is placed on the bottom of the pan; then a layer of the pieces of rabbit previously seasoned with salt, pepper, and whatever other seasoning may be desired. This is covered with a second layer of onion, then rabbit, and so on alternately, until the whole of the rabbit is used up. A few' thin slices of bacon or ham aro put over455 GAME AND POULTRY. the last layer of rabbit, and all tho remaining pieces of onion ai-o placed on the top. The cover is then put on, and the vholo stewed at a moderate heat for throe hours. A slack oven, a hot plate, or a water bath answers admirably. Almost needless to say, that, as no water is added, the jar must not be subject to fierce, dry heat, whether on a stove or in an oven. When turned out, if nicely cooked, it will be found a tender, succulent, gravy-teeming dish; differing from the dry, stringy, and insipid dishes of rabbit often served. English onions answer very well, if scalded; and if a slightly thickened gravy is preferred, a dessertspoonful of flour may be added to the seasoning which is rubbed over the rabbit. A dish similar to this, and liked better sometimes, is made by adding to the rabbit, twenty minutes or so before removing it from the jar, about half a pint of White Sauce made with milk. The liquid from the rabbit is added to it gradually, and the whole boiled up; and those who favour cheese dishes will appreciate a rabbit to which half a pint of Cheese Sauce is added in the same way. Another change may be effected by using some celery in place of half the onions. Rabbit, Stewed, Brown — Required: a rabbit, an onion, a few celery stalks, stock, thickening and • seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. This is a plain dish. Wash and dry and cut up the rabbit, dividing the legs if large, then brown the joints in a little hot fat; this makes the dish more savoury, though it may be dispensed with. Add any plain stock, such as No. 1 or 2, or the liquor from boiled meat, and the vegetables cut up; a little carrot may be used, and the onion can be fried if approved. A bunch of herbs, and some peppercorns with a clove or two should be added. Cook very slowly for an hour to two hours, according to the age and size of the rabbit. Thicken with browned flour, and add a little colouring, or if additional flavour be imparted by means of store sauco or ketchup, the colouring will not be required. A little lemon juice or vinegar, either of the flavoured kinds, adds to the flavour and increases the tenderness. There should be a good supply of gravy, and tho vegetables may be served or removed with the herbs and spices. A little bacon or pickled pork may be cooked separately and served on another dish, or a few slices of ham or bacon may be fried and put round the rabbit. Remember to remove the neck, &c., before the other joints ; or put the thin joints in after the others. If all go in together they will not be evenly cooked. Various adjuncts may be used ; mush- rooms are an excellent addition, so are tomatoes, and either may be cooked with the rabbit or separately and used as garnish. Savoury preparations of rice, &c., may be put round the rabbit, and sausages are often served. For richer stews the recipes under Hake should be followed, and many hints may be gathered by reference to stews of poultry and meats, both for plain and rich dishes. Rabbit, Stewed, a la Fran- 9aise.—Required: a nice young- rabbit, two ounces each of bacon, butter, and lean ham ; a pint of stock, No. 1 or 2 (or for a better dish, No. 4), half a pound of small onions, a sprig each of thyme, parsley, marjoram, and a bay loaf; a glass of light wine, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar; roux and seasoning. Cost, about 2s. 4d. Wash, dry, and joint tho rabbit; put it in a stew-pan, with the onions in slices, the butter, first melted, the bacon in dice, and herbs, tied together. Cook until brown, turningand shaking now and again, then add tho ham in strips, tho stock, wine, vinegar, and somo white peppercorns and a clove or two; no salt until it is nearly done. Cover, and leave for an hour and a quarter to two hours; the age of tho rabbit affects the length of time re- quired ; stir a time or two, and when456 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. tender thicken with a spoonful of roux, and add more stock if plenty of gravy is wanted; keep the rabhit hot; it should be dished on a round of bread, fried or toasted ; then pass the gravy, onions, and liver through a sieve; remove the spices, re-heat, and pour over the rabhit. In the case of an old rabbit, much longer time must be allowed. It may bo steamed for a short time before cooking, and will bo more likely to turn out tender if the preliminary browning bo omitted, although the stow will bo loss appetising. This is a very good dish. Rabbit, Stewed, White.—For a white stew or fricassee, sec the Index for dishes of veal, fowl, &c. Rabbit, Tinned. — These are amongst the best of the many excellent tinned meats, and their cheapness is no small point in their favour. They are thoroughly cooked, the meat easily falls from the bones, and may be used in minces, &c., and for potted meats. liaten cold, just as they are turned from the tins, with a nice salad, they are very appetising. They may bo converted into curries, fricassees, and all like dishes, at little tost and trouble, or rc-hoated, and served with any sauce such as would accompany a freshly-boiled rabbit. For pies they are very good (see Pastry); also for many other dishes for which fresh rabbit is employed. The recipe below illustrates tho principle which should govern the re-heating. Required : a tin of rabbit, a pint of onion sauce, made with milk, from six to eight ounces of cooked ham or bacon, hot. Cost, about Is. 9d. Take the rabhit from the tin; separate the pieces ; cut up tho bacon into little slices, then put alternate layers of all in a jar, having sauco top and bottom. Cover this, and sot it in a saucepan of boiling water, until the rabbit has become heated ; then turn out on to a hot dish. This is very little more trouble than it would he to heat the rabbit, and just pour tho sauce over, and garnish with the bacon. Tho difference will be at once apparent upon trial of both methods. Rabbit, to Truss.—If not already skinned and paunehed, this must be done first. Cut the rabbit open and take out the intestines, liver, lungs, and heart. Leave tho kidneys. Wash the liver and heart, and at once throw the rest away. Bo careful in removing the liver to avoid breaking the gall bladder, or the flesh will bo made bitter. Loosen the skin on both sides, towards the hind legs, then draw the skin off, inside out. Chop the first joint of the legs off. Go on skinning the body until tho fore-legs (shouldors) are reached ; skin and chop them similarly. Cut off the cars, and peel round the nose, then skin tho head, and take the eyes out with tho point of a knife. Rub with salt any parts where the blood has clotted, then wash and dry the rabbit. It is best to leave it under a running tap for a time; it saves a good deal of trouble. If for boiling, thread a needle, pass it through the end of a hind leg, pushed forward, then through tho end of tho fore-leg, drawn back- ward ; pass it through tho body, and secure the other legs in the same way. Bring the needle through again to the starting point, and pass it through the jaws, after twisting tho neck, so that the animal is, so to speak, looking backwards. Tie the two ends firmly. When done, tho string is readily withdrawn. Skewers are al- ways better dispensed with in trussing for boiling. If for baking or roasting, proceed in the same way, but fasten the head by means of a skewer passed through the shoulders and neck ; or by skewer- ing through the mouth. The head must bo kept upright. A roasted rabbit looks nicer if the cars bo left on (see Roast Hare). A slit should be made in each thigh, close to tho body, about an inch long, that tho legs may ho more easily turned, and fastened close to the body; and iqgame anp poultry. 457 the caso of a boiled rabbit this way is sometimes preferred. After the cuts are made, the tail end should have an almost V-shaped appearance. Not only does this give the rabbit a neater appearance, but it facilitates the cooking. Rook.—The meat of the rook is rather dry and coarse, though in the opinion of some there is a resemblance between tho flavour of the young rook and the pigeon. Perhaps rook pie is the best dish that can be made from the birds (see Pastky) ; but rooks can be mixed with other birds if cut up for a stew, or other dish, with plenty of gravy. Sole.—See Rook Pie for the pre- paration of the birds. Ruffs andReeves.—These little birds, of which the ruff is the male and the reeve is the female, take their name from the long feathers which stand round the neck of the male bird. Ruffs are birds of passage, and are caught in traps, and when fattened on meal and milk are esteemed a great delicacy. They should not be drawn, and should be trussed like woodcock. To prepare them, rim a small skewer through the thighs and pinions, lay over the bodies of the birds a slice of fat bacon and a vine leaf, run them on a skewer, and put them down before a clear fire. Baste we'll with butter, and put a slice of toast in the tin under the birds to receive the drippings from the trail. When done enough, dish them on the same toast with a little brown gravy round them, and more in a tureen. Garnish the dish with watercress, and send bread -ante or melted butter flavoured with lemon to table. They will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Cost, uncertain. Snipe. -The snipe is a migratory bird. Like woodcock, snipes, after being plucked and singed, and the head skinned, are not emptied, but are roasted with everything in them as they succumbed to fate. The thigh is more highly esteemed than any other part. They are most abundant and fattest in frosty weather. They fre- quent marshy meadows, and, during frost, the edges of rushy hills, and feed on worms and insects. The snipe is decidedly inferior to the woodcock. Mr. Gallon advises that when rank birds are shot, they should be skinned, not plucked, as much of the rankness lies in the skin : if un- skinned, they should be buried for some hours, because the earth absorbs the oil that makes them rank. The breast and wings are tho least object tionable parts, and. if there is abun- dance of food, should alone be cooked. If old, the feet will be thick and hard; when these are soft and tender, the birds are young and freshly killed. When the throats are muddy, and the bills very moist, they have been too long killed. Cost, about 2s. 6d. or 3s. per brace, but variable. Snipe, Curried.—“ The snipe should be plucked and cut through, not drawn, since the entrails afford a most delicious morsel. It may be considered a sacrifice to curry snipe, but one trial would at once abolish all such scruples, for a more delectable dish upon the tables of the opulent it would be difficult to discover.” The snipe is worthy of the best curry sauce that can be concocted, the nicest gravy or stock being used for its foundation ; and not a moment longer than is necessary for the cooking should it remain on the fire; neither should the pan be uncovered, or the aroma and flavour will suffer. Snipe and other game can be re- heated in curry sauce, but tho dish will not be so good as one from fresh birds. In making the sauce, the worst parts of tho birds should bo stewed for stock ; that and some good brown sauce, or game gravy, may form the foundation ; or brown stock No. ft makes a good basis for these curries. Should a little fumet of game be in the larder it will greatly improve the currv. Plenty of rice should be served with it.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 458 Snipes, Roasted.—Pluck the birds very carefully so as not to tear the tender skin, and singe and truss without drawing them (see Snipes, to Truss). Put them to a clear fire, and baste frequently with butter or drip- ping. When they have been down five minutes, put under them slices of the crumb of bread toasted and buttered on both sides. This toast is intended to catch the droppings of the trail, and is considered by epicures a greater delicacy than the bird itself. A slice ■Should be allowed for each snipe. After the toast is put under the birds, a dish should be held under them when they are basted. When they are done enough, flour and brown them. Take them up, dish them with a slice of toast under each, and serve without any sauce in the dish with them. If liked, a slice of lemon may accompany the birds, or a little plain melted butter may be sent to table in a tureen. Snipes should bo served very hot, or they will be comparatively worthless. They should not be over- roasted. The thigh is considered the best part. Time, about twenty to twenty-five minutes; or twelve to eighteen minutes if liked much under- done. The snipes are all the better if burded. Snipes, Roasted (another way). —Pluck, singe, and draw the snipes, remove the gizzards, and carofully pre- servo the trails. Truss the birds, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie those on securely with twine. Put thorn down before a clear fire. Take a slice of the crumb of bread for each bird, and .toast and butter it on both sides. Chop the trail, spread it on the toast, and put the slices in a brisk oven. Take the birds up, and dish them on the slices of toast in a hot dish. Snipes, Superlative. — Re- quired : snipe, forcemeat, puree, sauce, and a garnish as below. Cost, from 6s. or 7s. upwards. Partly roast two or three birds ; take them down, and split them down the back. Have some game forcemeat ready—liver forcemeat is best for this; make a ring of it on a dish; and spread the snipe on the. cut sides with some of the same forcemeat. Lay them in the ring, and make them high in the centre. Spread a game puree over the top, and finish the cooking in a hot oven. The dish should be covered. Then pour away any fat from the forcemeat, and dredge fried crumbs over the top; garnish with croutons, and mushrooms or truffles: serve a truffle puree separately, or a good truffle sauce. Snipes, to Truss.—Follow the directions given for Woodcock ; or truss them by cutting the first joints of the wings off. and pressing the legs to the body, then passing the bill of the bird through the legs and body. This method has almost supplanted the other one referred to, as it facilitates the carving. Teal.—The flesh of this beautiful and delicate little waterfowl is highly prized. It is thought to he better in flavour in frosty weather, though it is to be had from September to February. It can be cooked like wild duck, though less time will be required. Cost, about Is. 6d., but is uncertain. Teal, Filleted.—This is a nice dish. The birds are half roasted, then taken down, cut into fillets from the breasts and legs, and stewed for ten minutes in brown gravy or sauce, well- flavoured with port or claret, and a little lemon or orango juice. With this some mushroom sauce should also be sent to table. The gravy should be poured over the birds. Make stock of the rest not used for the dish. If for an entree, garnish with or-ange salad and watercress, or with glazed mush- rooms and croutons. The Allots should be in a pyramid. For a more economical dish, joint the birds when half done, having boned them to commence with, then cut the joints into even sizes. Cost, for a dish of three birds, about 6s. to 7s. on an average.GAME AND POULTRY. 459 Turkey.—The turkey is highly esteemed, and usually commands a high figure, especially at Christmas, when most extravagant prices are often de- manded and obtained for large, well- fed birds. Turkeys are at their best in December and January. If the weather is suitable, they should bo hung fully a week before being dressed. n very cold weather, care must be taken that they are not frozen in hanging, and if this is the case they should be brought into a warm place for some hours before being cooked, or they will be spoilt. Brillat Savarin says :— “ The turkey is the largest, and if not the most delicate, at least the most savoury of domestio poultry. It enjoys the singular advantage of assembling round it every class of society. When our farmers and wine-growers regale themselves on a winter’s evening, what do we see roasting before the kitchen fire, close to which the white-clothed table is set? A turkey. When the useful trades- man or the hard-worked artist invites a few friends to an occasional treat, what dish is he expected to set before them ? A nice roast turkey stuffed with sausage meat and Lyons chest- nuts. And in our highest gastronomical society, when politics are obliged to give way to dissertations on matters of taste, what is desired, what is awaited, what is looked out for at the second course ? A truffled turkey.” Hen turkeys are considered the best, especially for boiling ; one of moderate size is preferable to a large one for this mole of dressing. In young birds of both sexes the skin is soft and even ; in old ones it is coarse, hard, and wrinkled. While hanging, the bird should be watched; if kept too long the head will become discoloured, and a greenish mark will bo seen up the neck. The legs should look smooth; and in a cock turkey the length of the spur indicates age; a long spur, with rough, pale legs, are certain signs that the best days are over from a culinary point of view. Cost, about 1». to 21s. on an average, or from Is. per pound upwards. For other dishes of turkey follow the recipes given for Fowl. Turkey, Carving of. — The breast of a turkey is so large, that slices taken neatly from it and from Fig. 103.—Turkey, Roast, to Carve. the wings generally suffice for all the company. They should be taken from each side alternately, beginning close to the wings, and a little forcemeat and a small portion of liver should bo served to each guest. When it is necessary for the legs to be used, they should be separated from the body with a sharp knife, and cut in slices ; but it should be remembered that they, with the gizzard, will make an excellent devil. The dotted lines in the illustration show clearly the method, and render further explanation unnecessary. Turkey, Drawing.—Lay the bird on its breast, push back the skin of the neck, and cut the neck itself off close to the body, but leave the skin long that it may be securely turned over. Remove the windpipe and loosen the inside of the throat with tho finger. Make an incision under the tail an inch and a half long, with tho fingers remove tho crop and the intes- tines, and be particularly careful not to break the gall-bladdor, which is fastened to the liver, nor to let any of the gall touch the bird, as it will impart a bitter taste which cannot afterwards bo removed. Wash the insido with a soft rag, pour water through it, and dry it carefully.460 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Turkey a la Brockleigli (a cold dish).—Required : a boned turkey of moderate size, forcemeat as below, aspic, brown and white sauces, a tin of macedoines, salad, sliced tongue, que- nelles, &c., as undermentioned. Cost, from 15s. to 18s. on an average, but may cost 20s. A pound of ham, fat and lean mixed, half a pound of cooked tongue, half a pound of truffled sausage meat, the same of button mushrooms, salt and pepper, some grated lemon peel, and a little nut- meg and cayenne are to be blended and passed through a mincer, then mixed with a few sliced truffles, and bound with raw yolksof eggs. This is to be put in the bird, which should be trussed into its original shape. The birdisthen to be nicely braised. (See page 461.) When done let it cool, then mask it with white chaudfroid, and when that is cold with brown chaudfroid. Some rings or stars of truffles and cooked white of egg are to be laid on to form a pattern, together with pickled gherkins and savoury custard, cut into fancy shapes. Then pour pale aspic over to set the garnish. Garnish the dish with some little moulds of macedoines in aspic. (See Garnishes.) Here and there lay some slices of tongue, cut with a crimped cutter, and the quenelles, and little piles of salad of various colours. This is a good dish for any festive occasion. Time, about three to four hours. In estimating it, remember that the stuffing alone weighs about three pounds. The bones should be braised with the turkey, then added to the sf ode-pot; or the liquor from the braise may bo made into very delicious soup, gravy, or sauce ; the bones being sim- inored in it until the goodness is ex- tracted. Dishes of this kind are need- lessly increased in cost, unless full benefit in some way is obtained from the residue. Turkey a la Chipplata. — Roast a turkey, and let it become nicely browned; glaze it if necessary ; decorate with chipolata garnish (see Garnishes), and send pice sauce to table; a good brown sauce is suitable; or make gravy from stock No. 16 or 17, thickening with roux and glaze. The bird may be stuffed with pork sausage meat, or with good veal forcemeat. Cost, variable. Turkey, Baked, American.— Required: a young turkey, oysters, cream, seasoning, gravy, sauce, wine, &c., as below. Cost, from 8s. to 12s., according to size and season. The oysters are to be bearded and dipped in cream, then in a mixture of cracker crumbs, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. Put a lump of butter in the bird, and pack the oysters in well, then truss, and give the bird a good shape. Roast or bake with frequent basting, and while it is cooking make a gravy from the giblets and oyster liquor; it can be made white by adding milk or cream, and a little flour and butter or white roux; or if liked brown, use brown thickening, and a glass of sherry or other wine. Send a dish of cran- berry sauce to table if convenient. The bird is to be wrapped in buttered paper, and requires careful cooking, and only one that will be suro to be tender should be chosen, as it is not desirable to cook the oysters longer than is necessary. Another way.—Stuff the bird, both breast and body, with a good oyster forcemeat, and cook by roasting or baking. When done, dredge with fried crumbs. Mako a gravy from the giblets, and add some oysters and the liquor, with roux to thicken, and a glass of wine with a dash of anchovy essence. Pried oysters should be used to garnish. A fine fowl may be cooked in either of the above ways. Turkey, Baked, Italian Re- cipe.—Required; a turkey, a glass of Marsala, some French plums, bacon, chestnuts, sausages, butter, seasoning, drc. Cost,about 2s.,exclusiveofthebird. Cut from six to eight ounces of sausages in pieces; stone the French plums—two or three ounces only ; cut them up, put them in a pan with some butter, add the chopped liver of theCAM)-; AND POULTRY. 4G1 bird, and a couple of dozen chestnuts that have been boiled and peeled. Fry altogether for a few minutes. Make into a forcemeat with the wine, and till the turkey’s breast. Cover with the bacon, and bako in a gentle oven with frequent basting. A gravy made in the pan is served with this, and some nicely-dressed macaroni or sparghetti is a fitting adjunct. Turkey, Baked, Plain Method.—Supposing the bird to be rather old, it is well to steam it until three-parts done; or if this is not practicable, to boil it until the same point is reached, and leave it to cool in the liquor. After it has been dried and floured, wrap it in greased paper, and bake slowly. Jlist before serving, baste with butter, and flour it, to froth nicely, and serve with gravy and sau- sages, or with a chestnut puree. By this means the bird will be tender and of good flavour. The trouble is, of course, very slight, compared to that of roasting a turkey. Turkey, Boiled.—An old coup- let has it that “ turkey boiled is turkey spoiled,” but in this there is more rhyme than reason. A boiled turkey is a very dainty dish, agreeable to those who find a roasted one too rich, and a pleasant change to those who, during Christmas festivities, may tire of roast turkey. Choose a plump hen bird, and truss it like a boiled fowl. Veal forcemeat, or one of oyster or chestnuts, is often used. Bind it well that it may retain its good shape. Then follow the directions given under Poultry. Skim well. Take the turkey up when done, and drain it, then dish it, and pour over some white sauce. Some in harmony with the stuffing should also be sent to table in a tureen. Parsley or egg sauce is much liked ; so is good celery sauce ; they are suitable when veal forcemeat, sausage meat, or plain herb farce is used. Good mushroom sauce or puree is also excel- lent. A small ham, boiled; a tongue, or a nice piece of bacon, or a pig's cheek, is a suitable accompaniment; and the garnish may consist of lemons in slices, parsley, boiled sausages—- small ones look nicer — or sausage cakes. Bread sauce is old-fashioned, but is still first favourite with many in connection with this dish. Time, about the same, weight for weight, as fowls. The turkey will rest flatter on the dish if the backbone be broken. The necessity for breaking the breast- bone is a disputed point. (See Goose, to Truss.) Turkey, Boned.—Turkey may be boned without opening, or it can be cut down the back first, j ust according to the purpose for which it is required. If to be served in its original shape, the first mode must be followed. For actual details, see directions for Fowl, Boned. We would just add a note of warning with respect to the breast; it is easy enough to bone until the part is reached just where the breast-bone is most prominent; there the difficulty consists in removing the flesh without tearing the skin, and it is sometimes easier to leave a bit of this bone in the meat, as it can he better removed after- wards. Then, as to the wings : if the turkey be small, leave the bones, ex- cept the chief bone ; but if large, leave only the third, thin bone. As to the legs: the thigh bone and leg bone, half-way down the drumstick bone, should be sawn off; the rest may he left, and will help to keep the bird in shape after filling and trussing. Supposing the tupkey is to be filled with a tongue, that must be boiled and nicely trimmed first, then placed so that the bend of tho tongue comes under the prominent part of the br-cast. The vacant places are then filled with force- meat, and it is necessary that no hollows are left, or the skin of the turkey is more likely to burst in the cooking. Turkey, Braised.—An old bird will not be so good as a young one, but it will be better braised than roasted. Pluck the turkey, and prepare it by trussing as for boiling. Put some slices of bacon on the breast, and lay the bird in a braising pan, on a bod ofUNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 462 sliced vegetables, with a few strips of fat ham, and the giblets, cleaned, and cut up; add a few cloves and pepper- corns, and a good bunch of herbs. Put in a glass of sherry, and lay a sheet of buttered paper over. Cover, and leave for nearly half an hour ; the pan must be often shaken. Then put in stock to half cover the turkey. This can be No. 3, or for abetter dish No. 9. Cook for two or three, to four or five hours ; the size and age of the bird will serve as a guide. When done, glaze the breast, after taking the bacon off, and finish off in the usual way. If cinders have been used (or if an ordinary stew- pan has been substituted, and the bird cooked in a moderate oven), it ought to be brown enough; if not, use a sala- mander before glazing. Skim and re- duce the gravy and thicken it with roux. It can be poured off before taking up the bird, if the pan be drawn back from the fire, as it takes some little time to finish off. Pour a little on the dish, unless some garnish is prepared separately, then serve all in a tureen. The giblets may be added to the stock-pot, if not wanted for another dish. Turkey, Braised, Plain.— Omit the wine, and add to the bird any plain stock, as No. 1 or 2, or No. 10 will do, if coloured and enriched with a morsel of beef extract. Proceed as directed until the turkey is done, then dish it—no glazing is required—and pass all the gravy and vegetables through a sieve; boil up, and season, and put in a little brown thickening ; pour some over the turkey, and serve the rest separately. Prepare some carrots and onions, with celery if obtainable, by stewing or braising ; place these about the dish, with the giblets cut up small, in little heaps between ; or the latter will make another dish ; then little piles of cooked ham, or tiny sausages, may be substituted. Turkey, Braised, Served Cold. —If possible, let the turkey get cool in the liquor ; it will then be of much better flavour, and retain more moisture. It should he wiped and put on a clean dish for serving, and left until cold before the finishing touches are given. It may he coated with white sauce, and treated like a boiled turkey ; or may be glazed and nicely garnished or masked in any of the wavs usual for roasted turkey. Turkey Giblets, Fricasseed. —Requireil: giblets, butter, seasoning, stock, &c., as below. Cost, exclusive of giblets, about 8d. or 9d. Take one set of turkey giblets ; these consist of the wings, the feet, the gizzard, tlie liver, the head, and the neck. Clean them all carefully, skin and trim the feet, skin the gizzard and divide it into quarters, cut the neck into four pieces, and the wings and legs each into two pieces ; skin, split, and clean the head, and slice the liver. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan and put in the giblets, together with a small hunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, another of basil, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Fry these ingredients gently till they are lightly browned. Pour over them a pint of stock, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Lift them out, skim, and strain tho gravy, and thicken it with a small quantity of brown roux. Put back the giblets for a few minutes’ further simmering; arrange them neatly in the centre of a dish, and pour the gravy over. Any sort of Vegetables may be served with this dish. Time, about two hours. Ordinary stock, as No. 1 or 2, does for a plain dish, but No. 4 will make it very superior. Turkey Giblets with Tur- nips and Onions. — Required : giblets, bacon, gravy, turnips, onions, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is., exclusive of giblets. Prepare the giblets as above. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Fry these until they are lightly browned. Lift them out, then put in the giblets, and fry them lightly. Pour gravy over them, and simmer gently as in the last recipe.463 GAME AND POULTRY. Cut three or four large turnips to the shape of corks, and peel six or eight button onions. Put them into boiling water for five minutes, drain and dry them, fry them in one ounce of butter till they are lightly browned, and put them aside. Skim, strain, and thicken the gravy in which the giblets are stewed, and put in with the bacon the fried vegetables soon enough for them to be sufficiently dressed at the same time as the meat. They will require from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to age and size. Arrange the giblets neatly in the centre of a hot dish, put the vegetables round them, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. The wings only of turkeys are often stewed in this way. Pota- toes may be served with this dish ; or a border of macaroni or rice ; a puree of carrots is also suitable. Turkey, Hashed, a la Dela- ville, — Required : the legs of a turkey, a puree as below, gravy, wine, rice, and croutons as under. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of the turkey. Skin and cut the meat cf the legs into slices; put between them some slices of cooked forcemeat; place in the form of a roll, and lay in a baking tin to j ust hold it; cover with a buttered paper after moistening with stock, and heat in the oven, over a tin of hot water. For the puree, put two ounces of butter, two tomatoes, half a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of white vinegar, a chopped shalot, and a pinch each of salt, sugar, and pepper into a sauce- pan. Boil to a pulp, sieve, and return to the pan with a teaspoonful of rice flour. Boil up, and then beat in a raw egg, yolk only. Have a long crouton, hollowed in the centre ; put the turkey roll on it, and pour the puree over. Garnish with a few fancy croutons. Put some boiled rice on both aides the dish, and pour the gravy from the turkey over ; reduce it well, only a little is wanted. Then sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve as an entree for a plain dinner. The legs of a couple of fowls may be served in the same way, and the meat from the back of a nicely-cooked rabbit is equally nice. (See recipes under Fowl.) Turkey, Minced, — Supposing the best of the bird to have been eaten, take any flesh that may be left, and cut it in little dice. Any that cannot be so cut may be scraped from the bones. If the giblets be left from the gravy, they will probably yield further flavour by stewing them in stock or water with the bones. In any case, a nice gravy must form the foundation (see recipes) ; the bits of skin and gristle from the meat will help. If any sauce, as celery ox- oyster, be left over, put it in the gravy, making a brown or white mince, according to the materials at hand. Thicken the gravy with the meat that was sciaped off, and some roux; put in the dice-shaped pieces, and let them heat through. Flavour with nice store sauce, ketchup, or hei’bs. If a very good mince be re- quix-ed, a little wine, with a morsel of extract of meat or glaze w-ill be wanted. A little cooked ham or bacon will improve it for most tastes. If liked, pass all the meat through a mincer. A hash may be made as above, but the meat is then to be sliced evenly, both with x-egard to size and thickness. Gax-nish the dish nicely with crotltons, lemons, or little sau- sages. Cost, variable. Turkey, Potted.— ltequired: a pound and a quarter of raw tux-key, ten ounces of cooked, lean ham and fat bacon mixed, a teaspoonful of fresh parsley, chopped small, half as much thyme, and a pinch of cayenne, ground mace, and powdered bay leaf, pepper to taste, two ounces of butter, half a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a little strong white stock, and some slices of bacon in addition to the above. Cost, about 3s. Prepare the meat as directed for Potted Meat. Add the liquid in- gredients last ; of the stock made from the bones, not more than a464 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. gill will be wanted. Line a buttered jar with raw bacon, all fat, and in the thinnest possible slices; fill up with 'the mixture, and finish off as directed for Tekhinb op Grouse, p. 422, allowing about an hour and a half for the cooking. This is good for breakfast, a picnic, or other outdoor festivities—fowl taking the place of turkey—or for making a pile of sand- wiches for a Christmas party. For a very superior dish of the "sort, the meat may be put in the jar in alternate layers with truffled sausage meat; the latter layers half an inch, and the former an inch in thickness. Or in place of the truffled sausage meat, pork, veal, or heef can bo used, according to the kind of dish required : veal produces a delicate dish ; pork or beef is more savoury. Turkey Poult, to Roast.— The turkey poult or young turkey is an excellent substitute for the fully- grown bird, as it is most easily ob- tained in summer and autumn, when the large turkeys are out of season. The young ones may be said to be in season whenever they are large enough to be used. They may be roasted in the same way as a fully-grown bird. It is not usual to fill them with forcemeat, though some epicures, re- gardless of expense, are partial to them when truffled. Tongue, bacon, or sausages are generally sent to table with them. Turkey poults are some- times trussed with the head tucked under the wing, and the legs twisted under like a duck. Unlike the grown bird, the feet may be left on, though the claws must be cut off. A turkey poult should bo put down to a clear fire, liberally basted, and when done enough should be served on a dish garnished with watercress. Brown gravy and bread sauce should be sent to table with it. A turkey poult braised is an excellent dish. If boiled, serve in the same way as a fowl. Time, according to size. To roast, about an hour and a half; moro or less as required. Turkey, Roasted. —There are several methods of preparing a turkey for roasting. The bird may be simply trussed like a fowl, and roasted with- out being stuffed at all, and will bo found excellent, the pure flavour of the bird being then presented itn- mixed with any taste that does not belong to it. When dressed in this way it should be served on a dish garnished with watercress, and sent to table with gravy. The usual way of serving roast turkey, however, is to stuff it either with veal forcemeat, chestnuts, or sausage meat, and to send it to table accompanied by a string of sausages, bread sauce, and brown gravy, or chestnut sauce. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss the turkey. Tie a buttered paper over the hreast, and hang the bir d before a clear fire. Baste frequently whilst it is being roasted. Unless tliis point is attended to the meat will be dry and tasteless. A quarter of an hour before the bird is taken down, remove the paper, dredge a little flour over the breast, and baste it well with butter. This will make the froth stronger than if dripping is used. Let it brown brightly. Garnish with lemon and sausages, or forcemeat balls. Servo very hot. Time, for a turkey of ten or eleven pounds, about three hours, or rather less. For larger or smaller, more or loss in proportion, not only to weight, but age. A stuffed turkey would take longer than an unstuffed one, even if both weighed the same. This is an important point in the cooking of poultry generally. Turkey, Roasted (Wo. 2).— For this, take two sorts of forcemeat; one for the breast, and tho other for the body. For instance, they may be of sausage meat and chestnuts; or of plain herb forcemeat, with either of the others named; or a good ham or veal stuffing, with one of mushrooms, can be used. The crop is stuffed in the usual way, and the body may be filled in the way ducks and geese are stuffed, or a roll of the stuffing may•10') GAME AND POULTRY. go in. At one time, one sort of stuffing was usual in the breast; now- two or three are sometimes employed. The idea is that those who do not care for one, may like the other—supposing two distinct kinds, one of a mild nature like chestnut, the other well flavoured with herbs ; but the flavours become more or less blended in the cooking, and the argument has little weight. It is more likely that the elaborate customs of the day, and tho craving for something new, gave rise to the fashion. Tho recipe which follows is a good one of this kind. Turkey, Roasted (Mo. 3).— This is a very rich dish. A fine bird should be chosen, and the breast-bone taken out, excepting just at the point. Fill the body with veal sausage meat mixed with oysters [see recipe under Forcemeats), and stuff the breast with a creamy chestnut forcemeat. Use strings and skewers to make the bird a good shape, and cover it entirely with greased paper ; also lay sliced bacon on the breast. When the bird is cooked dish it, and garnish witli fried oysters and small sausages (made from the farce used for the filling). Send good oyster sauce to table, or a nice brown gravy, just as preferred. Brown sauce is also suitable. Turkey, Rolled.— Required : a turkey, forcemeat, bacon, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per lb. inclusive. This may be described asa simplified galantine, and many may succeed in making it who would fail in the attempt to bone a whole turkey. Cut a } oung turkey down the middle into two parts, remove the bones without injur- ing the skin, lay the pieces flat on tho table—skin downwards—and spread over each a layer of good forcemeat or sausage meat an inch thick. Roll them up like a sansage, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie this on with twine. Cook the rolls in stock to half cover them. Rolled turkey may be eaten hot or cold. If it is to be eaten hot, put the rolls on a hot dish, remove the twine, strain and thicken tho sauce, pour part of it over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. It cold, it may be just glazed and gar- nished plainly, or it can be finished like a Galantine. With regard to the treatment of the wings in the above recipe, remove the largo bone only (cutting the rest off at starting) ; do the same with the legs; then draw the rest inside. Cutoff then as much as possible from the legs and wings that were removed, and put the bits of meat about amongst the forcemeat. Should those parts look unsightly when cooked, i.e. where drawn in, endeavour to hide them with the gar- nish. If by chance they get torn, draw- them together with a needle and thread. Time, according to size. The cooking should be gentle. Turkey, Stewed.—Required : a young tmkey, stock, and seasoning, sausage meat, bacon, butter, wine, sauce as below, and a vegetable puree ; celery, haricots, &c. Cost, about 10s. Mix the sausage meat, about two pounds, with a couple of shalots chop- ped, a little nutmeg, and a spoonful or two of stock ; this helps it to cut firmly when cooked. Brown the bird in a stewpan (that just takes it) in the butter and slice of bacon cut up ; add a bunch of herbs, some sliced vege- tables of the usual sort, a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and some liquor from boiled white meat or poultry ; a calf’s foot is a good addition, that and the liquor w-ill make good soup next day. Simmer slowly for two hours, or more. A short time before serving, take some of the pot liquor; cool it rapidly by plunging tho vessel into cold water ; put a pint and a half in a saucepan, with a good spoonful each of sherry and mushrocm catsup, thicken with brown roux, and add salt to taste. Boil up, and pour some over the turkey; serve the rest in a boat. Tho giblets may be stewed with tho bird, and served as a separate dish, or left in the soup. [See Giiilet Sore.) Serve the vegetable puree inn separate dish.466 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. This is inexpensive, and will be liked by those who find braised or roasted turkey somewhat rich, and yet com- plain that a boiled one is insipid, us many people do. If only the breast be stuffed, less sausage meat is wanted ; the above is intended for the body also. Tux-key, Stuffed with Chicken.—Required ; a turkey, a chicken, sausage meat, &c., as below. Cost, from Is per pound upwards. Bone a young chicken without in- juring the skin. Draw the legs and wings inside, fill the body with freshly- mado nicely-seasoned sausage meat, and make it round and compact in form. Put it inside a boned turkey ; fill all the empty spaces with sausage meat, and truss the turkey firmly, restoring it as nearly as possible to its original form. Cover with buttered paper, and put it down before a clear fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally, and roast very slowly, or the outside of the turkey will be done enough before the heat has pene- trated to the interior of the chicken. In carving the turkey slices should be cut across the breast, so that each guest may have a share of turkey, chicken, and forcemeat. Time, three hours or more. Another way.—Let the chicken be boned, and put inside it a calf’s tongue, salted, boiled, and skinned. See that it is nicely trimmed about the root be- fore it is used; fill up the vacant spaces with forcemeat, and use force- meat also between the chicken and turkey. Leave no gaps anywhere. This may be served hot, with the usual sauces and gravies. It makes, too, a famous cold dish for a large party. It is excellent if covered with good white sauce, thick bechamel, or chaudfroid, then coated with aspic, and nicely gar- nished. {See also recipes for Iced Sauces.) Many excellent varieties of garnish may be evolved from them. Instead of roasting, boil the turkey, or braise it. If the former, the stock must not be quite boiling when it goes in, and it should be tied in a clean cloth, after the buttered paper is wrapped round. Do not take it up until the stock is cool. Turkey, Stuffed with Tongxie. —Required : a turkey, forcemeat, a tongue and adjuncts as below. Cost, about Is. per pound, inclusive. This is a favourite supper dish and is very handsome in appearance; it is also easily carved. A plump turkey must be boned, and the empty spaces, legs, &c., filled with forcemeat. The tongue is then put in. (See Turkey,Boned ; also Turkey, Stuffed with Chicken, in which directions for cooking are given.) The time for this varies, but only enough to cook the turkey, and heat the tongue through is required, as that is in every case to be first cooked until done. We mention this, because we have known instances where a large raw tongue has been put in, and the bird cooked for an hour and a half or two hours, with the result which may readily be imagined on a moment’s thought. Now, the exact sort of stuffing depends upon circumstances. If expense is no object, and the garnish is to be of an elaborate nature, truffled forcemeat, or some other rich one should be chosen. But for ordinary occasions, sausage meat, or a veal stuffing, without suet, will answer the purpose ; and if the dish be simply masked with white sauce, and gar- nished with lemons and parsley, and a few fancy shapes of cooked vege- tables (not forgetting beetroot), it will taste good, and give satisfaction. For all such dishes a little aspic jelly should, however, he used when ob- tainable. (Sec recipes for Galantines of Fowl and Veal.) Turkey, Truffled.—There is no dish more highly esteemed than a truffled turkey. The easiest, and per- haps in the end the most satisfactory, way of getting one, is to procure it from France (through a first-class poulterer), ready fattened, stuffed with truffles, and ready for the spit. It will be all the better for the winter’s467 GAME AND POULTRY. journey, as birds so stuffed are always kept for several days after, to allow the perfume of the truffles to penetrate the flesh. The cost of a turkey thus pre- pared will vary from two or three guineas to five guineas. Fine fresh truffles are, however, so expensive, that mushrooms or chestnuts are often substituted for them, pounded with bacon in exactly the same way, and a turkey thus prepared will prove to most people quite as acceptable as if really truffled. When it is prefeirei, however, that the turkey' should be stuffed with truffles at home, procure a young, plump, freshly-killed hen turkey. Take a pound and a half of truffles for a moderate-sized bird, and two pounds for a large one. Smell them, and reject any that are mouldy. Wash them carefully, and scrub with a soft brush till not a particle of earth or grit remains upon them. Cut about a pound of the truffles into balls an inch and a half in diameter. Pound the rest with the trimmings to a smooth paste, adding an equal weight of fat bacon. The bacon should be rasped and pounded separately7, then mixed with the pounded truffles, and the forcemeat seasoned with salt and pepper only. When the forcemeat is quite smooth, mix the whole truffles with it, and put the preparation into the body of the turkey'. Let it hang for five or six days after it is stuffed, and when it is to be roasted, lay a slice of fat bacon upon the breast, and a piece of buttered paper over that, and baste liberally whi'st it is before the fire. If it is wished that truffle sauce should accompany this dish, a few may be put aside for the purpose. Truffled turkey is so rich that it is often served with no accompaniment in the way of sauces. Bread sauce is likod by some, but, properly speaking, no rival flavour should approach the truffle. When fresh truffles are not to be had, use bottled ones. Truffled capons may be had from a guinea ; these are useful for small families. The dealers in high-class comestibles, ns well as poulterers, in London and else- where, do a large trade in them during the Christmas festivities. Ttirkey, Truffled Economic- ally.—Required : a turkey, truffles, chestnuts, and veal forcemeat as below. Cost, exclusive of truffles, about Is. per pound. Take’a freshly'-killed, plump young turkey. If large, half a pound of tine fresh truffles will he required for it; if small, a quarter or a third of a pound will be sufficient. Wash and scrub the truffles carefully, as in the preceding recipe, drain and dry' them, and cut them into thin slices without peeling them. Boil or roast some fine, sound chestnuts; the quantity must be regu- lated by' the size of the turkey'. There must he sufficient with the truffles to fill the body of the bird. Before boiling them, make a little cut in the outer skin of each nut to keepit from bursting. Let them boil until quite tender. Skim them, mix the sliced truffles with them ; then fill the body of the bird with the mix- ture, and let the turkey hang for two or three days in a cool, airy' situation. On the day' that it is to he dressed fill the crop of the bird with good veal forcemeat, truss it firmly', tie a buttered paper over the breast, and roast it be- fore a clear fire. A turkey' prepared as above will he sufficiently' flavoured with truffles to satisfy most people; indeed, all but those who are exces- sively' fond of truffles. Time, an hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to size. {See recipes in Forcemeats.) Turkey, to Truss for Roast- ing.—Pluck, singe, and draw the bird ; mind that the gall bladder is not broken ; a hook is useful for the purpose. A little care will enable the operator to take out the entrails in a cleanly' manner. Wash and dry the liver and gizzard, the latter being pre- pared as for GibleT Pie. Cut the feet off, and draw the strings or sinews from the legs. To do this sometimes is difficult. The lust way is to hang the bird by the thin end of each log, separately, to a hook in the ceiling, then468 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. to pull hard, holding the leg firmly. Next cut oft' the head and neck close to the body ; leave plenty of skin to turn over the back. Put the legs in boiling water, then peel off the rough skin. Next put in the forcemeat, and sew the neck over the back, or use small skewers. Press the legs close to the body, turn the points of the wing3 over the back ; put the liver through one pinion, and the gizzard through the other. Cut a slit in the apron, and put the nose through. Truss the bird very firmly; one skewer is wanted through the legs ; another through the noddle to confine the wings; and a third near the end of the merry-thought, under the wings. These will prevent the weight of the stuffing, &e., making it turn irregularly on the spit. Cover the breast, also the liver and gizzard, with plenty of well-buttered paper. Pass string across the back of the turkey, twisting it round the points of the skewers in a crossed direction. In a very large bird, put a fourth skewer through the ends of the legs, and put in the first and second skewers before stuffing it. The backbone should be beaten flat; and if the breastbone be so treated, place a thick cloth first over it, then use a stout rolling-pin. (See remarks on this subject under Goose, to Truss.) Wlieatears. — These should bo cooked the day they are killed. Pick, singe, and draw them, and cook by- passing a skewer through. Then bake or roast, broil or grill; they will take but ten minutes if well basted with butter. They are sometimes coated with egg and bread-crumbs before cooking. Gravy improves them, and bread sauce and fried crumbs are often served with them. They may be mixed with other birds for a pie or pate. Widgeon.—The common widgeon is plentiful in Britain during winter. The flesh is good for the table. The American widgeon forms also an es- teemed food. Tt breeds chiefly in the northern parts of America, and is com- mon in winter on the coasts of the United States, and in the rice-grounds. Widgeon, Roasted.—Rub the breast of the widgeon with the liver till it is red. Truss it securely, and put it down before a clear fire. Flour it, and baste frequently till done. Serve on toast in a dish, and send the gravyto table with it. It is generally preferred that a widgeon should be underdressed. If liked, it may be stuffed with the liver pounded and mixed with a few bread-crumbs, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon rind, and bound together with the yolk of an egg. Time to roast the widgeon, a quarter of an hour; if liked well done, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Widgeon are often treated just like wild ducks and teal, orange gravy being served with them. A very good hash may be made from a roasted wid- geon ; the gravy should be flavoured with sherry and orange j nice, or a salm i of the usual kind may be prepared. Cost from a shilling each, but very uncei tain. Wild Duck, Fillets of. —Re- quired : the fillets from the breast and sides of a wild duck, toast, gravy, or sauce, and an orange salad and garnish as below. Cost, about 3s. When it is known that the breast only is eaten at table, this is a very good way of serving the duck. The fillets should be nicely arranged on the toast, and a garnish of lemons or oranges put on the dish. Orange gravy or brown sauce should be served in a boat, and an orange salad is always a suitable addition, though it may bo dispensed with. Wild Duck, Hashed. — Re- quired : the remains of a duck, gravy, or sauce, and adjuncts as below. Cost, about 2s., or rather more. Supposing the fillets to have been served as above detailed, take the rest of the bird and joint it, then heat it in any sauce or gravy that may be left over, or make a little of a suitable sortGAME AND POULTRY. 460 for the purpose. Claret or port, is a suitable addition to such gravies and sauces. Wild duck makes a good salmi. Wild Duck, with Oranges. —Required : wild duck, orange salad, brown gravy, port, orange juice, roux, glaze, and other adjuncts as below. Cost, variable. An orange salad is one of the best adjuncts to a wild duck when nicely roasted. A good brown gravy should be served also, well flavoured with orange juice and port, about half a gill of each to a pint of gravy; a thicken- ing of roux should be added, and a bit of glaze. Stock such as No. 5 may form the foundation. Better still is good brown sauce with a flavouring of orange, or lemon or lime juice will serve equally well, and some good port: or claret, with a morsel of currant jelly, may be substituted. Wild ducks are objected to by many, on account of their fishiness. Then- cost is uncertain; about 3s. per brace is an average price when very plentiful, but they are often much higher in scarce seasons. Wild Duck, Roasted. — The main points to be observed are to keep the gravy well in the breast, and not to over-cook the bird. It must be most carefully plucked and drawn. The inside should be wiped out, the head and neck cut off; the feet scalded, and placed like a tame duck’s ; or by some they are trussed like the feet of a fowl. The duck is put close to a sharp fire for a few minutes, that the gravy may be kept in : it is then to be basted plentifully with butter until done. Froth it well, and serve with gravy or sauce. (.S'-* recipes.) A lemon'cut through should be sent to fable. The carver often likes to dip one half into ralt, and the other into cayenne, and squeeze the two portions together into the breast, after scoring it in a few places. A glass of port is next poured in, and the breast becomes a perfect boiine-bouche. A caution respecting Ihis process may be given. Take care in squeezing the lemon to hold it close to the bird, and mind that none is “ squirted ” into the eyes, or, owing to the pepper, it will cause a good deal of suffering. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes on an average to roast a wild duck. Cost, from 2s. each on an average. Wild Duck (American way).— The bird is well seasoned inside and out with salt and pepper, and stuffed with bread well buttered, and soaked until soft in hot water. It is basted for a few minutes with slightly salted water, in which an onion has been soaked, to take away the fishy flavour. It is finished off by bast- ing with butter. The gravy is made from the giblets, thickened and flavoured with black currant jelly, port, and cayenne. The fishy taste can also be taken away as directed for Wild Fowl, Roasted. Wild Duck, Stewed, — Re- 'quired : a duck, vegetables, seasoning, butter, stock, cream, milk, thickening, &c., as under. Cost, about 3s. Parboil the duck for ten minutes, with a bit of carrot and onion in its body, then drain, and remove the vegetables; lay the duck in cold water for a short time. Then joint it, and season with pepper. Flour well, and fry pale brown in hot butter. Put it in a saucepan, and cover with stock that has been made from the giblets and a bit of veal, with vege- tables and herbs; it need not be a strong stock. Stew until done, from twenty to forty minutes. Skim the gravy, then pour it off, and add to half a pint a gill of hot cream (or half milk) and a little thickening. Boil up, stir in the yolk«f a raw egg, and beat hard for a minute. Then put in tho juice of half an orange or lemon, last thing; either should be mixed with hot stock, and put in gradually to (ho rest, or it will curdle. This is a very good way of treating wild ducks, or tame ones either, if they are strong in flavour, as they often are. Wild Duck, Stuffed.—A stuff- ing made by soaking bread-crumbs in port, then seasoning with cayenne andUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 470 salt, is old-fashioned, but liked by some. A mixture of bread-crumbs and herbs, in which tarragon predominates, may be used ; a little butter should be mixed in this. Wild Fowl, Plucking of.— To remove the down which adheres so closely to the generality of wild fowl, immerse them, when divested of their feathers, into scalding water. Have ready some powdered resin, and rub it over the bird with the hand. This is said to be the most effectual remedy. Wild Fowl, Roasted.—When of a kind that is usually impregnated with fishiness (most inveterate when they are not fat) they may be improved by rubbing with tarragon vinegar a few hours before cooking. In a hash or salmi, a little tarragon may be used with advantage, but very little only, or the dish will suffer, owing to its peculiar flavour. Wild Fowl, Truffled, Saute of.—Required : a wild fowl, truffle parings, ham, seasoning, butter, wine, and stock as below. Cost, about 3s. to 3s. 6d., except when very dear. Cut up the bird, and put the giblets in a stewpan with a bit of ham, a shalot or two, a mushroom, a bay leaf, and an ounce of butter, with the paring's of two or three truffles ; fry for a few minutes, then add half a pint of port, claret, and brown stock mixed; equal measures of each. Fry the joints of the bird in a little butter, until brown. Strain the sauce over them, after it has simmered for two hours, and been made up to the original quantity. Cook for twenty ndnutes to half an hour, with an occasional shake. Serve very hot. A fresh bird is intended for this saute. Woodcock. -Like snipe, this bird should be fat. The most delicate and highly esteemed parts are the legs and intestines. If over-done, the breast is very poor eating, and those who cannot eat under-done game should avoid the woodcock ; to over-roast it is, in the opinion of the epicure, a positive cruelty. It is, perhaps, best liked when roasted, or as a salmi. It needs very careful cooking, and to be served as hot as possible. Cost, uncertain; about 5s. per brace; or may be much more, or a little less. Being so variable, no “ cost ” is given in the recipes. Woodcock a la Financiere.— Required : birds and garnish as below. This is an expensive dish. Take three birds and lard them, then roast or braise them. If the latter, use good stock ; glaze them, and rest them on a dish with a pyramid-shaped croustade in the centre. Garnish with financiere ragout, some at the base, and some at the point; bring the best parts of it into prominence. Fasten some hero and there between the birds by means of hatelet skewers, and place a handsome skewer on the top. Other birds may be served thus. Whero expense has to be considered, various additions may be made at homo to the ragout as bought (see page 216). But the sauce used must always be good, otherwise it is better to dispense with the ragout altogether than to mask it with an indifferent sauce ; for when garnish of this description is attempted all the adjuncts should be in keeping. Woodcock a la Lucullus.— Roast the birds in the usual way; catch the trail on a toast. While they are still under done take them up, and pour over them a little melted butter, with which the yolk of an egg and a spoonful of cream have been mixed; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and brown before the fire, or with a salamander. Time, from fifteen to twenty minutes altogether. Woodcock, Devilled. — Re- quired : a woodcock, a devil mixture, wine, orange juice, the yolk of an egg, oil or butter,' and seasoning as under. This method may be followed in dealing with any bird with which the trail is served. Take a woodcock, rather under-roasted than otherwise; cut it into small pieces, and score it well. Season as directed (see Game Devilled). Crush the trail, add to itGAME AND POULTRY. 471 the juice of half a Seville orange, a glass of wine, which may be good sherry or Madeira, a little salt and pepper, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put this with the meat into a dish, over a spirit lamp, and stir imtil the moisture is nearly absorbed. Then put in a dessertspoonful of the purest salad oil, or oiled butter if preferred. Shake the dish fora minute, then serve as hot and as quickly as possible, or it will be spoilt. Supposing no spirit lamp to be handy, the meat, &c., may be put into a small stewpan with a cover, and treated as above described by heating over a gas ring, or on a hot plate. The thing is quick service; a hot dish and a hot cover must be in readiness as soon as the stewpan is removed, and the pan must be delicately clean; any “ foreign” flavour would spoil this dish. Woodcock, Potted.—Required: woodcocks, butter, bacon, seasoning and paste as below. Take any num- ber of fresh woodcocks. Pluck them carefully, and cut off their legs and wings Split the birds in halves, and lay them on a dish. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, and, with this exception, leave the inside or trail undisturbed. Line the inside of an ordinary potting - pan with thin slices of fat bacon. Fill it with the woodcocks placed neatly and closely in layers upon the bacon, and season each layer with salt and black pepper. When the pan is full, pour as much clarified butter over the woodcocks as will cover them, and cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water. Make a hole in the top of the lid, and bake the woodcocks in a moderate oven. They must not be eaten till they are quite cold. When a skewer can be pushed easily to the bottom of the pan, the woodcocks are sufficiently baked. This dish will be quite spoilt if inferior butter be used. Woodcock, Roasted.—Pluck, but do not draw the birds ; put them down to a brisk fire; flour them a little, and baste well. Put toast under for the trail, and dish like snipe. Sliced bacon, with vine leaves under, is an improvement. From fifteen to twenty minutes will cook them. it is suid that there is more art in roasting woodcocks than any other birds of the same size. The cooking takes but little time, and they want attention the whole time. If basting be neglected, or if they become over- done, they are spoilt. As the legs ought to be a little better done than the breast to be eatable, there is an in- equality in their roasting, unless this be obviated by stopping the spit when the back is to the fire, in order that the legs may get the greatest amount of heat. Melted butter is said by some to be the only sauce which does not de- tract from the flavour of a woodcock ; but orange gravy, and good brown gravy, of the usual kind for game, are liked by others. It is certain, though, that a gravy for these birds, however good, ought not to be highly flavoured ; and perhaps none is better than one made from good stock slightly thickened, and flavoured with fumet of the same birds, or those most resembling them. Woodcock en Surprise.—Re- quired: a cooked woodcock, fowls’ livers, mushrooms, seasoning, bread, salmi sauce, truffles, olives and croutons as under. Make a salmi from a cold bird. Fry the trail with the livers of a couple of fowls; fry also a few small mush- rooms, a shalot, and bit of parsley. Pound these in a mortar, and season with salt and pepper, and a suspicion of grated nutmeg or other spice. Fry some bread, six or eight pieces, any fancy shapes, and spread them with the above puree. Pour some of the salmi sauco over them, and then lay on the joints with the rest of th sauce over all. Make a pattern on the top with moro small croutons, covered with finely chopped truffles and olives, warmed in thick brown sauco. Serve as hot as possible. Note.—Tho trail is to be taken out before cooking the bird.472 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Woodcocks, Terrine of (M. Dubois’srecipe).—Bone two woodcocks, divide each of them in two, which pieces put into a pie dish (terrine) with five or six peeled truffles cut in quarters, the same volume of cooked ham fat, or fat bacon, in largo dice. Season the meat and truffles lightly, and baste with the third part of a glass of Madeira. Take off the flesh from a leg of hare, cut it in pieces, fry it in a stowpan, with double its volume of liver of poultry or game. When well set, add the trails of the woodcocks, then let the whole cool, to be chopped afterwards with a third its volume of lean pork. Season the forcemeat, put it into a, mortar, pound, and add to it the same quantity of fresh fat bacon, previously chopped, and pounded with the trimmings of truffles. Season the forcemeat with a pinch of pounded aromatics; five minutes after, remove it into a kitchen basin, and mix with it the Madeira the woodcocks have boen soaking in. Mask the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with some of the prepared forcemeat, arrange the pieces of woodcock, the truffles, and the ham in the centre, alternating with force- meat. The pie-dish must then be completely full; smooth the top with the blade of a knife, and mask it with slices of bacon. Cover the preparation, and set the pie-dish in a saute-pan with a glassful of hot water, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for an hour and a half. When done, take it out; and when half-cold, put a light weight on tho top of the preparation. When completely cold, take it off the pie, cut it in oblongs, which dish in a circular order into the terrine. Woodcock, to Truss.—Pluck the bird entirely, head and neck in- cluded, and very carefully, to avoid tearing the tender skin. Singe off tho hairs and cut off the ends of the toes, but do not draw tho birds. Twist tho legs at the joints to bring the feet upon the thighs. Press the wings to the sides, and turn the head under tho wing, with the beak forward. Tie a string round the legs and breast, and pass one also round the head and tho tip of the bill. Hang the bird to the spit, feet downwards. Another way. — For a newer and more convenient way, see directions under Snipes, to Truss.SAUSAGES, POTTED FORCEMEATS, AND MEATS AND FISH. SAUSAGES. Toss of sausages are turned out weekly of the best possible quality; indeed, it is very doubtful whether the majority of “home-made” arc as good. But there are sausages and sausages; and we warn anyone against buying any that are the least suspicious. If highly coloured they should be rejected; and so should all that are not perfectly fresh; those which have been lying, perhaps, in the sun for a whole day in a shop window, are to be avoided. Those most generally offered for sale are of beef and pork ; the latter should only be indulged iu in cold weather. Home-made sausages are, however, a treat when properly made, and preferred by some to any other, even where ample facilities for buying them exist; and there are times when the cuttings of larger pieces of meat —say at pig-killing time iuthe country—may be used up in this form with advantage. The first thing is the meat. The second is ihe machine. Of the meat we cannot too strongly urge the importance of freshness. As to the machine, that should embody simplicity, cleanliness, and such an arrangement of the cutters that bits of stringy, sinewy meat are caught and retained, not passed through the holes into the sausage skins. Most of the machines, which are called by various names, look much alike to the novice. The one that will be found of all-round usefulness in an ordinary kitchen, and will cost from fifteen to twenty shillings, according to its size, may' be best described as a “ combination mincer,” and will serve for sausages as well as for cutting up meat for raised pies, for chopping suet, and many other purposes, simply by changing the cutting plates. A machine of a complicated character will not be a success; simplicity of construction is necessary to cleanliness, as the parts must be well washed and dried cadi time it is used: and we advise the enamel-lined machines in preference to any other. They are a trifle dearer to start with, but with careful using they last for years, and are as easily washed as a teacup. This, as users of such utensils know, is no small advantage. Perhaps the best thing is to see a machine at work before buying it, and this can bo done in most largo towns. The most thorough washing is necessary; plenty of boiling water and a little soda will keep the cutting plates and other parts free from grease or elogginess ; a dirty machine will spoil tlio next lot of materials that, may be passed through it, whatever the r nature ; whereas, with care, fruit and vegetables may bo put through a sausage machine without the slightest taint of “ foreign ” flavour. Next wo must consider the seasoning. Bought sausages, are, for the most part, seasoned with salt and pepper only ; or to pork sausages a little sago is sometimes added- Upon this point milch must depend upon474 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. individual taste. Spice or herbs, or both combined, is used by some; nutmeg and mace in moderation will be more likely to meet with general ap- proval than allspice, and marjoram is a favourite herb; some prefer it mixed with sage. A little lemon rind gives zest to veal sausages, but it wants very cautious using; when sausages flavoured with it are fried, there is a tendency to ‘'repeat”; just a suspicion may be used with advantage in combination with herbs of any sort. Then there is garlic: one fears to name it almost, there is so deeply rooted an aversion to it, generally speaking. All the same, it gives a t wang to veal sausages that is much approved of when once tried; it is but a twang, though, and should be so slight that the sausages do not actually taste of garlic—tho veriest morsel will do for a pound or two of meat; or the board on which it is cut up may be rubbed over with it; or the strength is easily reduced by boiling (see Garlic). In the chapter on Seasonings, &c., will be found many preparations of herbs, &c., that may be used. Sausage skins are best prepared on a large scale ; to cleanse them at home is a troublesome and unpleasant process, and people as a rule get them of their butcher ready cleaned ; but it is always advisable to give them another rinse in clean, cold water. Then, there are “ prepared skins ” put up in tins. These may be had through first-class grocers, and some makers of the machines supply them. They want soaking, or tho sausages will probably be too salt, and should be washed well inside by fixing one end to the tap, and letting the water run through. There is no other plan so effectual as this. To fill the skins, put one end on to tho “ filler ” (the other end must be tied securely) and see that the meat only fills the skin slightly; tie the other end and twist them into shape. Loop thorn by passing them through each other, giving a twist each time. If the skins must be got ready at home there is no way so good as tho thorough scraping and washing of the intestines, which must soak for snnio days in salt and water, many times renewed, and be rinsed again and again in clean, cold water ; they are best attached fo a running tap. To the last water but one a little carbonate of soda should be added; the last of all must bo clear water, as cold as possible. Tho appearance of the skins, and freedom from the slightest unpleasant odour, are indications of sufficient cleansing. Tho intestines of t he pig are used for sausages of the ordinary size and kind, such as we have been considering. The ox supplies skins for the large, dried sausages, to which brief attention must now be given. The ordinary German sausage, sold at from tenpeuce to a shilling per pound, is most commonly eaten in this country, and it must bo purchased with caution. It does not follow that all which is highly-coloured is bad, for many of the makers say that this is done to meet the wishes of the public; but. it is quite certain that a great deal is far from good, and that f ho colouring often hides a multitude of—supposing we say deficiencies; cases that arc reported from time to time in (he daily papers prove this conclusively. It should, therefore, always be bought of a respectable sales- man; if it bears the name of the maker all the better; and it should bo avoided in hot weather. Of the high-class, expensive dried sausages, used chiefly for hors cl'ceuvres, a good variety may always be bought at475 SAUSAGES. first-class Italian warehouses; these range in price from two to four shillings per pound; the recipes are national secrets, and nothing but imitations can be made outside their native country, in many instances. For general directions on cooking, see Sausages in the alphabetical recipes. American Sausages. — Re- quired : four pounds of lean pork, two pounds of fat pork, six teaspoonfuls of dried sage, three teaspoonfuls of black pepper, four and a half teaspoonfuls of salt (of which half should be celery salt), half a nutmeg grated, a small teaspoonful of ground mace, and half as much ground cloves. Cost, about lOd. per pound. Pass the meat through a mincer, and mix the seasoning together before adding it to the rest. If not all wanted at once, pack some away in a stone jar in the cellar, and cover the top with melted lard. Another way is to make some long bags of muslin, each to hold, say, a pound of the meat. After filling and tying, suspend them from the cellar ceiling, first dipping them in melted lard. When the meat is put into skins they should always be tested, for fear of holes; do this by tying one end up, and blowing hard through the other; the weak parts, if any, are thus discovered. To cook the above without skins, make it into cakes or sausage shapes, and fry them in a little hot fat; or if wanted crisp, their own fat will cook them. They' are ex- cellent rolled in egg and cracker- crumbs, then dipped in melted fat and baked or grilled at a sharp fire. The foregoing recipe is an excellent onefor sausage meat that is to be kept, but for quite immediate eating it would be too much seasoned for most palates. This- can be reduced to taste. Beef Sausages. — Required : beef, seasoning and bread. Allow about two pounds of lean beef to one pound of fat; the proportion of bread is a matter of taste ; very good sausages are all meat; medium quality ones con- sist of about a fourth bread; the seasoning is salt, pepper, and cayenne, with any spice that may be liked—nut- meg is most agreeable as a rule; shalots also are liked by some, but they should bo in small proportion, and very finely chopped. If passed through a fine mincer the meat need not be pounded. In filling the skins, more room must be left for swelling if bread is used in the mixture. The meat chosen should be juicy and tender; hard, gristly' meat makes very' inferior sausages. The samo mixture may be rolled into cakes or balls, but sausages in skins are more fully flavoured and more generally liked. These are more wholesome than pork. Another way. — Use suet in place of fat beef [sec remarks on the cooking of sausages containing suet, under Mutton Sausages), and although many' contend that the only' sausages worth eating are made with suet, we recommend the above as not only nicer to eat, but more digestible. This is a matter of opinion, and readers can make their ow'n choice. For eating cold—and many enjoy cold sausages—the above kind are certainly the better. Cost, about 7d. or Sd. per pound. Beef Sausages, German- Required : beef, pork, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. per pound. These are a good breakfast relish ; they should be cut in slices and served with salad. Mince together two pounds of lean beef and one pound of lean pork, an ounce of salt, half a tea- spoonful of fine saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a pinch of ground cloves and cayenne arc then mixed in well, and a flavour of garlic is imparted by bruising a clove of garlic to a pulp, and pouring a little476 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. water over; after a time the water is strained off and added to tho meat. Ox skins are to bo filled with the mixture and tied at tho ends. To boil them, put thorn on in cold water, and simmer for an hour. Take them up, and plunge into cold water for a minute, then dry and hang’ them up in a cool place. To these, fat pork, cut into small square pieces, is often added, when the mixture is put in the skins ; about half a pound to three or four pounds of tho minced meat is the usual proportion. Bologna Sausages.—Required: beef, pork, bacon, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Sd. per pound. Take beef and pork in equal parts ; cut it up, and pound it to a paste; add a high seasoning of salt and pepper, cloves, mace and garlic. When this is put in the skins, strips of fat bacon are inserted here and there. This is boiled for an hour or more, or smoked for a couple of months. The Italians eat it in the uncooked state. Another way.—These are very nice. Use some cooked calf’s head, the host part, in strips, with about tho same weight of chopped pork ; season with salt, pepper, spices and chives, cut small; moisten with a little white wine, then fill tho skins and boil. Coii- ander seed and aniseed, finely ground, are tho spices usually preferred. Breakfast Sausage (Ameri- can).— Required: a pound each of veal, lean pork, lean hoof and fat pork, half a pound of veal suet, four tea- spoonfuls of powdered sage, two tea- spoonfuls of parsley, thyme and marjoram mixed, a tcaspoonful of black pepper,and half as much cayenne, half a nutmeg grated, and tho third of a tcaspoonful of clovos, a large onion, minced, and from four to five tea- spoonfuls of salt. Cost, about 3s Prepare the'ineat in a machine of the usual kind ; the finer it is, the nicer tho sausage; stuff some large skins with it, tie them up, prick each in half a dozen places with a strong needle, and put thorn in hot water; heat to tho boil slowly, and cook for an hour and a half at a simmer only. Take flu m up, and lay in straw in Ihe sun to dry ; hay does as well. Rub the outsides over with olive oil and hang in a dry, cold cellar. If to bo kept long, rub black pepper and ginger over, wiping it off before serving. This is cut in thin slices and served cold, and a v< rv good relish it is. Sliced lemon anil sweet pickles, with some plain salad, should bo served with it. This is a superior sort of polony. Bi’unswick Sausage.—This is a great delicacy, sold at about 2s. per pound. It is served in thin slices. Curry Sausages. — Required : four pounds of beef, veal, or pork sausage meat, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Take the sausage meat, made and sea- soned in tho usual way. Prepare some tomatoes just as directed for Tomato Sausages, but omit the coralline pepper and cavenno. Put them to got cold, then mix with them two tablcspoonfuls of cooked apple pulp (from baked apples preferably), quite cold, and a large onion that has been fried and chopped, a small tcaspoonful of mixed herbs in the finest powder, and a tablcspoonful of good curry paste, that has been blended with a little good stock, and boiled for a minute or two. Tho apples for those should bo sharp, or tho sausages will lack piquancy. Now give this mixture a good boating with a spoon, and add somo stale fine crumbs, until it is about the same con- sistence as the sausage meat. Then put tho whole together in a large bowl, and let it stand in a cool place for a short time for tho crumbs to soften, and then fill tho skins as usual, and cook as required. If parboiled and fried these are excellent, either hot or cold. These, like the tomato sausages, should bo made as required. The curry paste may bo increased, but tho quan- tity named will give enough zest for most sausage eaters. Fish Sausages.—These arc of477 SAUSAGES. recent introduction, and may be ob- tained through provision dealers. They are a digestible and appetising break- hist relish. To preparo them on a small scale at home would be trouble- some, and they can only be made in perfection by utilising the fish where caught, in a perfectly fresh condition. The sausages may be had either plain or smoked, and cost about lOd. per pound. They are very nice cold as well as hot, particularly the smoked ones, and make good salads or sand- wiches. Foie Gras Sausages. — Re- quired : sausage meat and foie gras. Cost varies with the amount of foie gras used. To any kind of sausage meat, of which perhaps veal, or a mixture of veal and pork, is the nicest, add a proportion of foie gras ; an ounce or two to each pound, according to the degree of flavour desired and the quantity available. The foie gras should be freed from its surrounding fat, and rubbed through a sieve, then thoroughly blended with the meat, first prepared in the usual way. These sausages should be made small, as they are a delicacy, and only a small quan- tity is required. The “meat” has many other use3; besides making up into sausages it may be used for pies, patties, Ac., in layers or balls, or can be made into cakes, &e., for garnish- ing. Game Sausages. — Required: bread, ham, game, butter and season- ing. Cost, varies with the game, from lOd. to Is. per pound on an average. Either raw or semi-cooked game, one sort, or mixed, can be used; skin and sinews must be removed; two ounces of butter, the same weight of ham, and from two to four ounces of bread- crumbs should be used for each pound ; the seasonings are silt, pepper, and cayenne, with a hint of mace if liked. These may be made up without skins. If semi-cooked game and ham be used they are quickly cooked, either by frying or grilling. If raw game is employed, they are best cooked in a sautd pan, in a little hot butter, for about twenty minutes. Liver may be added, either game or poultry. Liver Sausages.—These are very rich, but are a most delicious relish; they should be served cold in thin slices. Take two pounds of call’s liver (sheep’s may bo used), half a pound of good lard, a pound each of fat and loan pork, seasoning ns below. Cost, for this quantity, about 3s. 9d. Boil the pork until tender, then put it through a sausage machine. Wash and dry the liver, and either scrape it to a pulp or mince it extremely small; the former mode is the better; mix it with the pork, and add the seasoning; this should consist of a tablespoonful of salt, half a teaspoon- ful of ground cloves and nutmeg, half a tablespoonful of dried herbs in fine powder—thyme, bay loaf, marjoram and sage, the latter to predominate— a teaspoonful of while pepper, not quite as much black pepper, and four ounces of raw onions, cut up small. These materials take some little time to blend properly, as it is necessary that the seasoning be equally distributed. Finally, the lard is melted and mixed in. Prepare some large skins; three parts fill them only, tie them securely at the ends, and put them into fust- boiling' water. Simmer them for about three-quarters of an hour, then drain and hang them up for use in a cool, airy place. Those are highly recom- mended. Mecklenburg Sausage.— There are several varieties of these ; to some, blood is added to give a red tinge to the meat. Mecklenburg liver sausages are similar to the Liven Sausaoes given above. Mutton Sausages. Required: mutton, suet, seasoning, bread, and egg. Cost, about Is. Id. A delicate sausage can be made from the remains of roast mutton, any joint from which slices can be got without fat, but raw meat is better. Chop a pound of lean mutton and six ounces of boot478 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, suetr separately ; then mix them with four ounces of tinely-preparcd bread- crumbs aud put them into a basin with a seasoning of thyme, marjoram, and powdered mace, and some pepper and salt. Moisten with the yolk of a raw egg. Fill skins in the ordinary way, then fry the-.sausages until lightly browned; leave* them to drain until cold, then cook them in stock or gravy for at least an hour; they must simmer only. Recipes for sausages with suet in, of which the above is an average specimen, often direct that they be fried in the usual way. We strongly dissuade anyone from making trial of any dish of which beef suet forms a part cooked by any quick process; it is most indigestible and likely to cause suffering. On this point more is said under Suet Puddings. Cooked as above, the sausages are very good, and a change from the ordinary kind. Another wai/.—Drop the sausages into boiling stock or water, and give them an hour’s cooking; let them get quite cold, then fry them, or brown them up in a Dutch oven, first basting with a little hot fat. These require no gravy or sauce. Oyster Sausages.—Required: three dozen small oysters, nine ounces of very fine bread-crumbs, the same weight of veal suet, shredded and then chopped small (use as little flour as possiblo while chopping), about half a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a quarter of a very small nutmeg, grated, the raw yolks of three eggs, and the white of one. Cost, about 4s., with oysters at Is. per dozen. The oysters must bo bearded, and then rinsed in their liquor first carefully strained, and cut into pea- sized pieces, then mixed with the above- named ingredients. The crumbs are to be soaked in the oyster liquor and squeezed dry. When thoroughly blended set the mass in a cold place for a few hours before using. It is then ready for making up into little sausages for garnishing; or sausages of the usual size and shape ; or into cakes or balls. They may be cooked by flour- ing slightly, then frying them in a pan with a little hot butter; or by coating with beaten egg and crumbs, and cook- ing in boiling fat; but if this mode be preferred they must first bo poached like quenelles, or the suet would not be cooked; and if for cook- ing in this way, it is necessary to add a few ounces of fish panada to the mixture. Pork and Potato Sausages. This is a French recipe. Required : one pound of pork, three pounds of potatoes, seasoning as below. Cost,about Is. The pork should be cooked until about two-thirds done, then chopped ; the potatoes must bo cooked in their skins, and beaten to a paste; plenty of salt and pepper should be added, with a little nutmeg and mace. The skins are then to be filled in the usual way, and left in a cloth for a day, then hung in a current of air for a few hours, previous to frying or broiling. For richer sausages, use a pound of meat to two pounds of potatoes. Any herbs can be used in addition to the other seasoning. In boiling the meat, use only enough water to cover it; this can then be reduced by quick boiling, and mixed in with the rest in filling the skins. PorkBlack Puddings. When black puddings, or blood puddings, are liked at all, they are generally liked very much. They are boiled in the intestines of the hog, and these must be very carefully prepared for them as follows: — Empty them, wash and scrape them in several waters, turning them inside out two or three times, and lay them in salt and water all night. The next day rinse them in fresh cold water, and they will bo ready for use. To make the puddings, throw a little salt into a quart of the warm blood, and stir until the blood is cold. Mix with it a quart of whole gloats which have been soaked in cold water all night, add the grated crumb of a quartern loaf soaked in two479 SAUSAGES. quarts of hot milk until the milk is absorbed. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Prepare a seasoning of a teaspoonful of winter savoury mixed with a teaspoonful of chopped thyme, a teaspoonful of chopped onion, half a teaspoonful of pennyroyal, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, half a dozen pounded cloves, half a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of an ounce each of pounded all- spice and ginger. Stir this season- ing into the groats, bread-crumbs and blood, and add two pounds of finely- chopped beef suet and six well-beaten eggs. Cut a pound of the inward fat of the pig into pieces the size of a large bean. Tie the skins at one end, and turn them inside out. Half fill them only with the mixture, to allow room for swelling, and put in the fat at regular intervals. Tie them in equal lengths or rounds, fasten the ends securely, throw them into boiling water, and when they have boiled for five minutes take them out, prick them to let out the air, put them back, and boil gently (or they will burst) for an hour. Take them up, and when they are cold hang them in a cool, dry place until wanted. When they are to be used, boil a few minutes in water, or toast in a Dutch oven. Cost, about Id. per pound. Pork Sausage Cakes,Soyer’s. —Required: pork, bacon, onions, pars- ley, seasoning, eggs, and a pig’s caul. Cost, about 8d. per pound. Chop some lean pork very fine, hav- ing previously detached all the skin and lione, and to every pound of meat add three-quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley. When the whole is well chopped, put into a mortar and pound well, finishing with three eggs; then have ready a pig’s caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, •keeping to the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and grill very gently over a moderate fire. This preparation is j ust as good made into sausages of the ordinary sort as in the foregoing way. A small pro- portion of bread may bo used by those who find it too rich. Pork Sausages.—Acquired : a pound and a half of fat pork,.the same weight of lean, about an ounce of salt, a teaspoonful of powdered sage, the same of pepper, and a pinch of cloves Mix and finish off as directed under Beep Sausages. Cost, about 2s. Another way.—Moat as above and a pound of bread-crumbs aro to bo well mixed; the seasonings are the same kinds as the above, but slightly in- creased; the sage can ho omitted, or if liked, a few small onions may he chopped and mixed with it. Another way.—Add nutmeg to tho seasoning; leave out the sage, and use thyme or marjoram, with a little lemon peel. Bread is a matter of taste, hut without it these are very rich. Pork Sausages, French.— Required : pork, seasoning, egg, bread, cream, &c., as below. Cost, lOd. per pound. Take pork, fat and lean in equal parts; chop, and season well with pepper, salt, and nutmeg or mace ; to each pound add a teaspoonful of chopped onion, one egg, and a table- spoonful each of milk and cream, with two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs. Pill the skins, then poach or steam the sausages; let them get cold, then grill or broil, and serve hot. These are very delicious if carefully seasoned. The “meat” is good for use in pies, &c. Rich Sausages of Mixed Meat3.—Required: pork, veal, season- ing, liver, mushroom purfie, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. per pound. This mixture can bo used in skins or not, or may be made up into cakes. There is no bread in it, and if mado as directed, the sausages will be votod very good. Mix half a pound of young, lean pork, with a pound of veal; after mincing this, put it in a mortar, andUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 480 add a teaspoonful and a quarter of salt, half as much white pepper, a little cayenne and mace, a tablcspoonful of White Mushroom Pur£e, and a small saltspoonful of grated lemon peel. Then add a tablespoonful of calf’s liver that has been scraped to a pulp ; only by this means will it be cooked properly in the short time required for the other meat. Mix well, then pound for a time to a smooth paste. If cakes are made, and they arc really the best for this, they should bo the size of a crown piece, and half an inch thick. They may be cooked before the fire; baked or fried in the same way as ordinary sausages: and are very good if rolled in plain biscuit-crumbs, and cooked in a saute pan, with a little hot butter. They will take about fifteen to twenty minutes. The board on which those are made up should bo slightly floured. Sausages and Apples. —For each pound of pork sausages allow half a pound of apples. Cook the sausages by frying or baking, and dish them crosswise on a square of toasted bread. Cut some of the apples into thin slices, and some into sections like those of an orange. Fry them as directed (see Apples, Fried), and put the slices round, and the rest on the top of the sausages. Cost, about Is. for above quantity. Tomatoes may bo used in the same way. Sausages and Baked Pota- toes,—This is a very good dish ; it is called also Sausage Potatoes. Take some potatoes, even in size, and bake them in their skins; allow one sausage for each potato. Fry the sausages, and cut them in two. Divide the potatoes, take out a little from each half, and put half a sausage in each hollow. Close them quickly, and put them in the oven for a few minutes. Brush the skins over with a little warm butter, and dish them in a pile on a hot dish, with the potato taken out passed through a masher, and allowed to fall lightly round them. Or put the potatoes in a ring, and let the rest drop into the middle. A sprig of parsley on the top improves the dish. Cost, about Id. to lid. each, inclusive. Sausages, to Bake.—Lay them in a tin which has been greased; it should be quite hot; brush them over with warm dripping or butter, and bake at a moderate heat until brown and crisp outside; turn them as re- quired. Allow from twenty to thirty minutes. Pork sausages will take quite the last-named time. Sausages, to Boil.—Thesesome- timos agree better than sausages cooked in any other way. Put them in boiling water, and give from fifteen to thirty minutes, according to kind and thickness; thin ones, of beef, wili be done in the shorter time ; while pork or veal, if thick, will want the maxi- mum time. To steam the sausages, lay them in a tin which will fit the steamer, and allow a trifle longer. Sausages, to Fry.—Some pre- fer these put in a cold pan, and cooked in their own fat, by turning them about until done. We think that the better way consists in making a small quantity of fat quite hot in the pan, and then cooking them, turning often until crisp and brown, for about fifteen to twenty minutes. Perhaps the nicest way is to boil or steam them until nearly done, then to plunge them into fat to cover for a few seconds, and serve as soon as brightly browned. If the skins are taken off, and the sausages are egged and crumbed, they aro ex- ceedingly good. Thus treated, they are generally served on oblong croutons. Pork sausages should look white when cut. The pricking of the sausages, by either method, is a disputed point; some direct that it be done, to prevent bursting; experience proves that some- times, in spile of all precautions, the sausages will burst, and the pricking certainly lets out the fat. There is no doubt that the filling of the skins has something to do with it, particularly if much bread be used, and enough room has not been left for the swelling.481 SAUSAGlifl. Gravy is often dispensed with; if liked, a little is sometimes made in the pan, after pouring off the fat, in the way it is made for chops or steaks. A better gravy is made liy heating a little suitable stock separately; it should be slightly thickened, and poured round the sausages, or served in a hot boat. Sausages should be served very hot. They are often dished on fried bread or toast. Sausages, to Grill or Broil. —These are better if parboiled and left to cool, then brushed over with warm fat, and crisped up before or over the tire. In this form, sheep’s kidneys are sometimes served with them. Sausages, with Cress and Pickles.—Cook some sausages a nice brown colour; glaze them, and serve on a hot dish with toast under them. Put some watercress round, plainly dressed with a little oil, vinegar, salt, and mignonette pepper, and send sweet pickles to table. No gravy or sauce is wanted. This dish is wholesome and appetising. Cost varies with the kind of sausages. Sausages, with Pried Pota toes. — After frying sausages, some cold potatoes may be cooked in the fat. This furnishes a cheap and taste- dish. Sausages, with Vegetables. —Almost any sort of vegetable eats well with sausajes, but green ones are the most wholesome, particularly with pork sausages, as they will counteract their richness. It is quite as easy to serve them in a tasty-looking form, and they cost no more. Supposing some sausages, and sprouts, or spinach, turnip tops, or anything of the sort; the sausages should be laid on a toast on the dish, the vegetables round it (if a puree it looks all the nicer), then in between the green, some macaroni or rice, plain or otherwise, may be put; or little potato cakes or cones also mix in with the green with good effect. Tomato Sausages.—Required: pork, tomatoes, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8(1. to lOd. per pound, on an average. These are of comparatively recent in troduction. As arule, they are composed of pork sausage meat of the ordinary sort, well-flavoured with tomato pulp. The following recipe will be found a good one: To four pounds of pork sausage meat, allow twelve ounces of tomato pulp. Prepare it by putting somu ripe tomatots in a stewpan, slicing them first, and letting them cook, with fre- quent shaking, until quite soft. Then sieve the pulp, so that the skins and seeds are left behind. Put it back in the pan with a teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of coralline pepper and cayenne, and just a pinch of white sugar. Stir and boil for about ten minutes, then turn out into an earthen vessel, to get cold before mixing it with the pork. It must be weighed after cooking and cooling. If fresh tomatoes are not at hand, any good brand of pulp may be selected, but it is always advisable to reduce it by simmering, and to season it as above directed, to ensure its keeping. These sausages should be freshly made as required. They will not keep so long as plain sausages, but in cool weather, if made as directed, they will not become sour under a couple of days. They must be kept in a cold place, and may be parboiled with advantage, before frying or baking. Truffled Sausages.—Required: two pounds of young lean pork, a pound of fat pork, an ounce of salt, half an ounce of white pepper, nearly a teaspoonful of mixed herbs in fine powder, or half the quantity of fresh ones, from four to six ounces of truffles, a little trufflo essence, and a glass of good wine—sherry or Madeira. Cost, about 2s. 6d., exclusive of truffles. Put the mixture into very delicato skins before cooking. This may bo used for “ farcing ” purposes. It must be kept very cool until wanted for use. Little cakes made of it are very good for serving with game or eU.NiVtiKSAL COOKERY BOOK. 482 poultry; some of tho raw meat of either should then ho mixed in with the rest if handy. Or some fumet of game is an improvement, when game is used; but the truffle flavour should not he destroyed. University Sausages. — Re- quired : a pound of pork, a pound of veal, half a pound of veal kidney suet, and the kidney itself, a glass of port, a gill of bread-crumbs, the yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne, a morsel of garlic, and any herb that may he preferred. Cost, about 2s. fid. to 3s. The bread and wine should soak together, and ho put with the meat, &c., after they have been minced as usual. The garlic should boas line as possible. Tho whole should be pounded and pressed in a jar, then covered, and left to blend before the skins are lillofl ; after which they should bo steamed fox- half an hour, then left to get cold and be fried, the skins being first removed, and the sausages rolled in egg and bread-crumbs. By cooking in the skins during the first part of tho pro- cess, tho flavour is better preserved. Little cakes of the above are very good for garnishing such dishes as roast rabbit or bare; or small balls may bo used in jugged bare, and all such dishes. The nicest way of cooking the cakes is to steam them until done, then let thorn get cold, and finish off as directed for the sausages; or instead of egging and crumbing they may bo brushed over with liquid fat, and browned up in tho oven or before the fire. The halls may be floured, and cooked in the gravy of the hare, &c. Veal and Ham Sausages.— Required : a pound and a half of lean veal, a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of lean ham, seasoning and lioi'bs. Cost, about 2s. 6d. Mince the meat in the usnal way; tho ham should bo of very good quality ; then add a teaspoonful of sage or mixed herbs to each pound of meat, with salt and pepper to taste. The quantity of salt depends upon tho quality of the ham and bacon, and must be added very cautiously. Fill skins, and cook in tho usual way. They are very delicious if boiled until nearly done, then finished off by frying or broiling. These also make delicate rolls [nee i-ecipcs under Pastry). Veal Sausages for Garnish- ing.—Required: half a pound of veal, four ounces each of fat bacon and lean ham, two ounces of bread, seasoning, &e., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. Prepare the meat in the usual way, and season with salt and white pepper, a dust of cayenne and grated nutmeg, and a pinch of dried thyme in lino powder. The bread should be soaked in white stock, squeezed very dry, and sieved, then mixed with the yolk of a raw egg and added to the meat. When well blended, form into little sausages on a floured board ; they should bo about an inch and a half long, and haR' as thick as an ordinary sausage. After shaping, they should be put in a cool place for an hour if convenient, then rolled in flour, next in beaten egg, and finally in fine biscuit-crumbs, made from any sort of hard unsweet- ened biscuits. Make a little butter hot in a frying pan, and cook tho sausages for about eight or ten minutes, turning them often, and letting them acquire a pale brown lint only. Drain well before serving. Theso are suit- able for garnishing many dishes, and they may be vaiied a little to suit tho dish. A thin coat of glaze improves them. White Puddings.—Required: pork, bacon, groats, milk, salt, pepper, onions, &e., as below. Cost, 4d. to 5d. per pound. Take two pounds of lean pork, and mince it small. Boil a pound of solid fat pork or bacon, and let it get cold: c ut this into squai-es. Soak some whole groats in milk for twelve hours; about half a pound will do; if groats are not available use the coarsest oatmeal in- stead. Then mix them with the lean pork. A good seasoning of salt and white peppex-, a little nutmeg, and aForce meats. 483 minced onion or two, or a few shalots should be added. Fill the skins very hghtly with the mixture, putting (ho squares of fat here aud there; tie them in links of about five inches. To boil them, put them in warm water, and cook them softly for two hours. When half done, some advise that they bo pricked, but if plenty of room bo left for swell- ing they will not buret. All super- fluous milk must bo drained from the groats. After boiling, they should bo loft to get cold, and then heated for serving in a Dutch oven, or on a grid- iron. These are the puddings familiar to country residents at pig-killing time, but almost evervono has a different recipo for making thorn. More fat than above given is often used, and the minced meat is composed of fat and lean. In some, melted lard is mixed with the groats. FORCEMEATS. Many very coarse and unpalatable compounds are commonly met with under the name of forcemeat, or stuffing (which is a more homely name for the same thing), due to nothing blit careless preparation and mixing of (lie several ingredients. In all forcemeats, except tlie very simplest kind, trouble and time must not be begrudged if tlie result is to reflect credit npon the cook. Those who are given to what they call “ knocking things together” at random will never succeed in preparing the delicate forcemeats which are the making of so many dishes, aud for which a pestle and mortar are absolutely necessary. And we believe that it is owing to the lack of proper utensils that many break down in culinary operations of all sorts. Some people are fond of arguing that only bad workmen quarrel with their tools; others will tell you that no one can work without tools. Be this as it may, it is certain that there is no more useful tool in a kitchen than the pestle aud mortar; and wliero forcemeats and potted meats are prepared in good quantities, a mortar which has a capacity of two to three pints should be purchased. (See the list of Kitchen Utensils at the end of the book.) Other utensils are a good knife and board, or some prefer a bowl, with the well-known form of knife made to fit it. Then there are sieves to be considered—many purees for which recipes are given herein need sieving as well as pounding—and we may here remark that the durability of sieves may he increased by using them more equally than they are generally used. Tlie sides, as well as the middle, should do a share of the work, and all sieves of copper or steel wire ought to he washed and dried each time they nro used; a small brush should be kept for them, and care taken that the holes do not clog. Assnming, then, that the utensils are ready to' hand, anyone who will may make good forcemeat, and all that comes under that head. First, I lie ‘■net that enters into so many of the every-day forcemeats: tiiis should he from tlie kidney if possible, skinned with care, and any (races of blood re- moved and it must bo chopped without Hour. Those who cut it into rongh, irregular-sized lamps at starting, will never got it fine. The tiling is to shred it very finely first, so finely that the knife seems to shave rather than cut it; if lightly chopped after, and rubbed into tlio crumbs until lost sight of, there will be no visible lumps of suet when cooked; tliero cannot484 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. be. The eggs, too, must be above suspicion, not absolutely new-laid, but good ; in nothing more than in forcemeat is a doubtful egg more object ion- able ; and they should always be most carefully freed from the germ. To season forcemeats is an art, for there is a wide difference between those that are little more tasty than bread itself, and such as may be tasted for hours after a meal. In testing a forcemeat before it is cooked, it should be borne in mind that seasoning is brought out by heat; that is, a force- meat which appeared to err on the side of mildness before cooking, might be found almost too hot when cooked. These things, as well as the tasto of those who will eat of the dish, must be considered. Herbs in the fresh state can be pretty accurately gauged with regard to quantity, but in using dried ones allowance must be made for the loss of strength by keeping. A word with regard to scraps of cooked meat; some people seem to have a notion that any bits 'of dry meat “ can go into the stuffing,” and that so long as there is bulk, there must of necessity be goodness. We are anxious not to be misunderstood, because in many forcemeats, cooked ham and other meats are used ; we mean that to stuff a joint, which perhaps needs two or three hours’ cooking, with scraps of meat which are already too dry, most likely, is manifestly absurd. The term “ forcemeat ” answers alike for the homely sorts called “ stuffing ” and for the hotter varieties to which the French name “ farce ” is usually given. Bread Forcemeat, French, —Required : bread, suet, onion, herbs, seasoning, and eggs, &c, as below. Cost, about 6d. Take four ounces of broad, and prepare it according to the direc- tions given under Panada, Bread, French . When cool, add to it two and a half ounces of veal kidney suet, a small onion, scalded and chopped, a tea- spoonful of parsley and thyme, a dust of nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, and either one whole egg, or the yolk of one and a tablespoonful of cream or milk. The suet should be as finely chopped as possible, and well mixed in the bread; the dry seasonings should be blended before they are put in. Another way.—This is plainer. Use an ounce of fat bacon, rasped, i.e. scraped with a knife, a little parsley and thyme, or for some dishes mush- room powder is nicer, a little seasoning, and part of an egg, with a spoonful of milk, to the same quantity of panada given above. If for fish, the rest of the egg comes in for brushing it over, if to be baked or roasted (see Fish). Brown Forcemeat (A Vege- tarian Recipe). — Required : half a pint of crumbs from brown broad, a dessertspoonful of fruit jelly—currant or tomato is nice, or apple jelly can be used—a large onion, fried and chopped, a little brown store sauce or ketchup, with seasoning to taste ; a pinch of cloves or allspice ■will improve it; one egg, one ounce of butter or a spoonful of oil, and two ounces of tapioca. Cost, about 6d. Mix the crumbs and dry seasonings, rub the butter in, melt the jelly, add it and the beaten egg, then put in the onions and tapioca; the latter should be cooked in a little water till soft (sec recipes under Tapioca), and mixed in while warm. It gives body to vege- tarian forcemeats, but other cereals can take its place; many are more nourish- ing, but lack the smoothness of tapioca. Sago is the next best to it. This has various uses for pies, &c. Another way.—Use equal parts of bread-crumbs and cooked sieved car- rots, or any other vegetable ; to half a pint add a raw egg, oil or butter asFORCEMEATS. 485 above, and about an ounce of grated cheese. This should be nicely sea- soned and can be used for stuffing such vegetables as marrows, which need some piquant addition. A little brown colouring should be added to both these. Calf’s Udder Forcemeat, French.—Required: calf’s udder, veal, panada, herbs, seasoning, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. to Is. per pound. Prepare the udder by the directions given on page 495 ; after it is cooled and cut up, add to it an equal bulk, not weight, of raw, scraped veal, and Panada, Bread, French. Blend these ingredients well, pound and sieve them, and season nicely, just according to the dish the forcemeat is wanted for ; herbs, and the other adjuncts to good veal forcemeat of the ordinary kind are generally employed; eggs to make a somewhat moist paste are also wanted, and sometimes cream is added. It will be seen that the udder here takes the place of butter or suet; and to save the trouble entailed by the use of udder, many cooks substitute butter, which they contend is as good; others hold the contrary opinion, and assert that no forcemeat equals that for which udder is used. Be that as it may, the use of udder is very limited, comparatively speaking, in this country. This may be used for stuf- fing veal and poultry, and for other purposes. Chestnut Forcemeat, for Goose.—Required : chestnuts, stock, onion, butter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. This is plain and cheap. To half a pint of the pulp of boiled chestnuts, add two ounces of butter, a small onion, par- boiled and chopped, a good seasoning of salt and pepper, and some parsley, or this can be left out; many prefer just the plain chestnut flavour. 'Stuff the goose with the mixture in the usual way. A very superior stuffing is made from Chestnut PcRfiE, Brown ; after preparing it as directed, mix in whilo it is hot about a fourth its bulk of sausago meat, without herbs; blend well and uso when cool. Bread- crumbs may be added if wanted plainer. Chestnut Forcemeat, for Roast Fowl (or Turkey). —Re- quired : chestnuts, stock, ham, liver, butter, bread, sausage meat, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. Take about thirty chestnuts that have been peeled, and boiled in a little white stock, and drained ; pound them with the liver of the fowl, par- boiled, a tablespoonful of chopped ham, the same of sausage meat (beef or pork), a small onion, chopped, salt, pepper, and grated lemon peel to taste, two ounces of butter, the same of bread-crumbs, and the yolks of two eggs. The eggs should be put in after the other materials have been worked to a paste. More must be made if for a turkey. Chestnut Forcemeat, Rich. —Required; chestnuts, stock, cream, butter, white or brown sauce, season- ing, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about Id. Roast some chestnuts, then skin them, and put them in a stewpan with just enough veal or chicken stock to cover ; put a buttered paper over, and cook until the stock is absorbed, and the chestnuts are dry-looking. Rub them through a sieve, and add a couple of ounces of butter to half a pint; season to tu ste, and mix in a little cream or white sauce if required light in colour; or brown sauce, if dark forcemeat is intended. Then stir in a couple of raw yolks of eggs, and beat well. Sometimes herbs are added, or a little ground spice of any sort may bo substituted. This is nice for balls or cakes, which can be fried after egging and crumbing (or they can be coated with crushed vermicelli), and used for garnishing fillets of beef, and many other dishes. Another kind of forcemeat is made by mixing some sausage meat with chestnuts cooked ns nbovo. This is more in accordance with modem dishes, ns chestnut forcemeat has theUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 486 disadvantage—in some people’s estima- tion—of being old-fashioned. Equal parts of the chestnut puree and sausage meat can ho used, or a larger propor- tion of the latter, which is more usual. Curry Forcemeat.—In making this, the thing to remember is that the curry flavour should be pronounced; at the same time, it will be much more agreeable if herbs, and the usual ad- juncts to curried preparations generally, are included. As to the foundation, it may be bread, with a small propor- tion of suet, or clarified fat, or butter for those who prefer it; or it may be a good sausage meat or other forcemeat, to which curry powder may be added, or curry paste, which gives smoothness and a more agreeable flavour, the paste being mild or hot as required. To all these forcemeats a little chutney is an improvement; finely minced hot pickles serve the same purpose, viz., that of increasing the piquancy. Egg and Mushroom Force- meat.—Required: mushrooms, lemon, butter, cream, eggs, bread and season- ing as below. Cost, about 8d. to Is., according to the s ,ason. This is a good recipe; the force- meat is useful for many purposes. Take somo mushrooms, button ones arc to be preferred, as the colour should not bo at all dark. After washing, they should bo rinsed in lemon j uico and chopped, then cooked in lemon juice and butter, an ounce of the latter to half a pound of mush- rooms ; the lemon juice must bo according to taste ; from one to two teaspoonfuls will be enough as a rule. When quite soft put the mushrooms, &c., in a basin, and add two hard- boiled eggs, the yolks put through a sieve, and the whites in dice ; or all may bo in the latter form if more convenient. Then add two ounces of bread-crumbs and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Beat the whole well, and add salt, white pepper, and a suspicion of mace, with a raw egg to bind it. This is not a cheap forcemeat, comparatively speaking. If for any dish that is to be eaten cold, another ounce of butter is necessary. A small quantity of chopped ham is another useful addition. Just as detailed above, it will be found very nice for many maigre dishes. Note.—This is much better if tho mushrooms are sieved before the bread is put in ; they will go through very readily while warm. Fish Forcemeat.— Required: fish, bread, herbs, seasoning, butter, an onion, milk, and an egg. Cost varies with the kinds of fish used; about Is. on an average. Take any sort of shell-fish, or it may be mixed ; lobster with a few shrimps, or some crab, if nice, and the best parts be used. Cut it small, and add an equal bulk of bread-crumbs ; to half a pint of the mixture add a table- spoonful of thyme and parsley, three- fourths of the latter; a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a teaspoonfnl of scalded and chopped onion, two ounces of butter, and a beaten egg. Blend very thoroughly, and then put in a small quantity of milk. With this some white fish may be used to make up the quantity ; the shell-fish gives it a savoury character, and renders it useful for many purposes. It is very good for stuffing fresh haddock, or any similar fish, or can he used for fresh water fish. (See also Forcemeats under Lohster, Shiump, Tomato, and Whiting.) Forcemeat Balls for Turtle Soup.—These can bn used also for Mock Tuktle Soup. Required: broad, veal, butter, eggs, seasoning, and stock or milk as below. Cost, about 9d. Soak four ounces of bread-crumbs in veal stock or milk; wring them in a cloth, and pass through a sieve. Take four ounces of lean veal from the fillet: scrape this to a pulp, and sieve it. Then pound it with the bread, add an ounce of butter, about a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne and pepper, grated nutmeg to taste, a little parsley and powdered mixed herbs, then put in the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, thatFORCEMEATS. 487 have been sieved. Add as much raw egg yolk ns will make a stiff paste, form it into balls the size of a very small nutmeg, and cook them in boil- ing water, slightly salted, until firm, l’ut them in the soup in time to heat through. Another icay.—Take some veal pre- pared as for Qce.velles, and add to it the necessary herbs, and hard-boiled eggs to make the mixture firmer ; one of the balls is better tested before all are made up. Forcemeat Balls, Ordinary. —Any forcemeat may be made into balls ; in some instances more crumbs must be used, but so long as the mass can be moulded that is all that is re- quired. If for frying, forcemeat free from suet is the best; for adding to stews, or anything that will be well cooked, those with suet will answer equally well. For dishes of hare, &c., any of the most savoury ones may be selected. For white meats, mixed forcemeats are best. Fowl, Forcemeat for.—Re- quired : half a pound of raw fowl, two to three ounces of pork or bacon, three ounces of veal suet, seasoning, the yolks of two eggs, and four ounces of bread panada. If suet is objected to, use butter ; the pork or bacon should then be reduced to about an ounce and a half. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. -id. Mince and pound themcats,then pound the whole. Any other seasoning besides salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg may be added, but the adjuncts to the dish must be considered, that the season- ings may not “ clash.” Used for staff- ing a fowl or turkey (for the latter the proportions must be increased) or for garnishing purposes. Game Forcemeat.—Itequired: game livers, raw game, bacon, butter, seasoning.cream, egg, stock, and panada. Cost varies with the kind of game. Take the livers of the game, and ponnd them with an equal weight of raw bacon, butter, and raw game; mix in some salt and pepper, and a pinch of powdered cloves and nutmeg; then make the whole into a paste with the yolk of a raw egg and a spoonful of thick cream, together with a spoonful or two of bread panada, cooked in game stock. If for tilling birds, this may bo moistcr than for moulding into balls, cakes, &c.. For a more solid forcemeat, use dry crumbs instoad of panada. For a more economical forcemeat, use any remnants of cooked game that may be hand)', and poultry livers instead of game. In either ease, tho liver must be in good condition, and after pounding should be passed through a sieve. Game Pies, Forcemeat for.— Kequired : half a pound of raw veal, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, tho same weight, of calf’s liver, the liver of a fowl or pheasant, or any other game or poultry, two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of cooked mushrooms, the same of sweetbread or brains, cooked, and cut in dice, and seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Gd. Pass all tho meats—sweetbreads or brains excepted—through a sausage machine ; put them in a pan with tho dissolved butter, and a bunch of herbs, with a pinch of cayenne and black pepper; stir for a minute or two, then pass through a sieve, after taking the herbs out and putting tho mushrooms in. Then add either a tablespoon ful of Fumet or Game, or tho same mea- sure of tho best brown slock or gravy that is available, with salt to taste, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Beat in a couple of raw eggs, yolks only, and tho sweetbread, and set aside to cool. This is so good, and may bo used in so many dishes, tiiat special attention is called to it. To make it stiff enough for moulding, either dry crumbs or panada will be wanted; as detailed, it is intended for using in layers, generally termed “spreading.” Godiveau (a rich French Forcemeat).—Required : veal, suet, water, or stock, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 488 This is much used as a garnish ; groat caro is required in its preparation. Take six ounces of lean raw veal, free from skin or gristle, and the same weight of veal kidney suet, free from any trace of skin ; chop both finely, or scrape the veal; pound them until they have become thoroughly amalgamated, then add a raw egg. Turn out and leave to cool, on ice if possible ; put back in the mortar with another egg, and go on pounding, adding a spoonful of iced water or pale stock, then put in a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper, and a little nutmeg. Turn out on a board, make a bit up into a round, or quenello shape, and poach it. If too firm, add a little more water, and if not firm enough, add half or the whole of another egg, according to the size. This should be made in a very cool place. It can be used for vol-au-vents, pates, and for garnishing purposes. The flesh of poultry can bo substituted for veal. Beef kidney suet can be used instead of veal, and the seasoning may be varied to suit different dishes, but it is a delicate forcemeat (or should be) and not highly seasoned. The addition of the iced water cools it, and helps to bind it; when cooked it will cut evenly. Goose.—Sec Sage and Onions. Hare Forcemeat (port or claret).—Required: bread, wine, suet, seasoning, shalot, parsley, ham, lemon, liver, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about 9d., exclusive of the wine. Take some stale bread-crumbs in pro- portion to the size of the hare, and pour over them enough port or claret to cover them. Supposing half a pint of crumbs before soaking, mix together four ounces of finely shredded veal suet, a toaspoonful each of chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, and chopped shalot, a tablespoonful of lean raw ham, passed through a mincer, with the liver of the hare if in a sound condition : if not, liver of any other sort of game or poultry will do. Blend the whole with the bread, and add salt and cayenne to taste, with a couple of raw eggs well beaten, and if claret be used, a tea- spoonful of melted currant jelly, red or black. This is a forcemeat which is somewhat old-fashioned, but much liked by many game-eaters. It is also very nice for a rabbit if it is intended to imitate hare. A very similar forcemeat is made by omitting the shalot, and putting in a boned anchovy, rubbod through a sieve; rather less lemon rind than above given, but other ingredients in the same proportion. Port should bo used when this modo is followed; it produces a very savoury forcemeat. Herb Forcemeat, Plain.— Use crumbs as above, and either half as much suet, or clarified fat, two eggs, and a little milk, herbs and seasoning as above. This, if made with the fat, does for baked fish. Herb Forcemeat, Rich.— Required : twelve ounces of fine bread- crumbs, six ounces of beef suet, an ounce of butter, a tablcspoonful of fresh parsley, chopped, a tablespoonful of mixed herbs—these should consist of thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, and basil, thyme being in the greatest proportion—half a gill of cream, three raw eggs, and salt, pepper, and cayenne, with nutmeg or mace to taste. Cost, lOd. to Is. The finer the suet is chopped, the nicer this will be; veal suet is better than beef, being more deli- cate, but beef answers for oi dinary purposes. If the herbs (other than parsley) are in the fresh state loss will answer; the above quantities are for dried herbs. Other herbs besides those named may be used ; the above proportions being observed. This is very good for rabbits whether boiled, baked or stewed; and it may be varied by using a little sausage meat, or chopped ham, or bacon, and reducing the suet. It ran be used also for veal, turkey, &c. The liver of a turkey or fowl can be minced and put in when for stuffing either of those birds. Leek Forcemeat.—This is a vegetarian recipe. Required • halt aFORCEMEATS. 489 pound of bread-crumbs, tho white part of some leeks, enough to fill a quarter- pint measure after chopping, two eggs, an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half as much thyme and sweet marjoram, mixed, and a littlo grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Cost, tid. to 8d. Mix the crumbs, herbs, seasoning, and leeks. Rub the butter in, then add tho eggs beaten first. Amal- gamate the whole very thoroughly, and use in pies, stews, soups, &c. For pies, add a little milk to make it moist enough to spread; for stews, soups, &c., mould it into small balls, and boil for an hour or so. A much more delicate flavour can be had by scalding or parboiling the leeks ; and an ounce or two of boiled rice, with less bread in proportion, is a further improvement. Liver Forcemeat (or Mock Foie Gras).—Required : six ounces of calf’s liver, three ounces of lean veal, four ounces of fat bacon, an ounce of butter, a bunch of herbs, i.e. bay leaf, thyme, parsley, and basil, a small onion, a tablespoonful of . chopped truffle, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about Is., exclusive of truffles. Chop the onion, fry it in the butter, add the liver, cut up, and the herbs; fry for a few minutes, then take from the tire, mix in the bacon and veal (these should be first scraped to pulp), then rub through a sieve; add a little salt and pepper, tho truffle, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Cover if not wanted at once. Another nay.—For this, fry the bacon with the liver; add tho veal as above, then rub through a wiro sieve, and instead of using the bunch of herbs (which are to be removed) add the -■lire herbs in powder; the parsley should be fresh, and about a teaspoon - fui used; tin- rest may tie dried, and about half a teaspoonful of the whole will suffice. For some dishes, the truffles may be advantageously in- creased. This is a very savoury and excellent forcemeat. Note.—By pounding this while warrp in a mortar, it is much more easily sieved. Rabbit, instead of veal, may always bo used when requirod for game dishes, such as stuffing birds, or in pies, &c. Lobster Forcemeat, for Fish. —This is a useful preparation ; made as described it can be used for stuffing fish ; or for making into balls for fish stews or soups. Required: the flesh of a medium-sizod lobstor, two ounces of butter, two raw eggs, one egg boiled hard, about a gill and a half of bread-crumbs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. or 8d., ex- clusive of lobster. Tinned fish may be used for it. Cut the lobster up small; add tho bread, and the butter dissolved by gentle heat; mix in the hard egg, minced; add salt and cayenne, a dust of black pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a teaspoon- ful of anchovy essence. Bind with the raw eggs, and use as required. This is nicer if the yolk of the hard egg be sieved, and the white cut up as usual ; and if for balls, for soups or stews, the addition of a tablespoonful of panada makes it easier to cook ; it can be poached like quenelles, or fried brown. Lobster Forcemeat, Plain. —Requiied: a pint of bread-crumbs, two or three ounces of butter, or less butter and a little milk, an egg, a tablespoonful of lobster essence, salt, pepper, and cayenne, a few drops of anchovy essence, and enough fish stock to make a rather moist paste. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. This is very good for giving flavour at small cost; and useful for stuffing large, rather coarse, or insipid fish. Meat, Forcemeat for (very plain).—Required: four ounces of bread-crumbs, an ounce of dripping, a grate or two of nutmeg and lemon peel, a saltspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, and a tablespoouful of milk, herbs as below. Cost, 3d. or Id. Put the crumbs in a bowl, rub the dripping in with tho fingers until fino;490 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. add the seasoning, and then the milk, which will make the whole into a paste; or the dripping can he first melted, and put in with the milk. Now for the herbs : if this is to be used for veal, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and about half a teaspoonful of thyme if fresh, rather more if dried. If for mutton, it may bo made as for veal, or a small tea- spoonful of sago can be added, and a small onion parboiled and chopped. Or for either kind of meat the herbs may be left out, and a chopped mush- room added, or a teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup. This is useful for cheap dishes ; it will be noticed that no egg is given, it will not therefore be firm when cooked, but rather crumbly, and as some people have to avoid eggs in all forms, to such it will be useful. It may also be used for a rabbit or fowl, and may be enriched if desired by the substitution of butter for dripping, and cream for milk. Mushroom Forcemeat, Vegetarian.—This is a very useful forcemeat for a great variety of dishes, and will probably be appre- ciated as much by meat eaters as those for whom it is more particularly intended. Required: a pound of button mushrooms, the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, a couple of ounces of oil—this may be olive or any other, but olive is the nicer— bread, seasoning, &c., as under. Cost, about lOd. to Is. Wash the mushrooms, then chop them up, and put them in an enamelled sauce- pan with the oil first heated, and the lemon; stir until they begin to fall, then add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketch- up, a little nutmeg and cayenne, with white pepper and salt to taste, and four ounces of bread-crumbs which have been soaked in milk and beaten well. Take flic pan from the fire, and add a tablespoonful of tapioca previously cooked either in milk or water, and give the whole a good stirring. The • finishing off of this depends entirely upon the purpose for which it is in- tended. As it is, it will do for stuffing other vegetables (see recipes in the chapters on Vegetables) ; or it can be made firm enough to form into balls, and used in pies; a little mashed potato, rice, or anything to give the right consistence, may be used for this purpose. Oyster Forcemeat, Good.— Required: oysters, bread, butter, sea- soning, eggs, anchovy essence, parsley, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d., with oysters at Id. each. Mix together a dozen medium-sized oysters, cut small, a gill and a half of bread-crumbs, a salt spoonful of grated lemon peel, a good pinch of cayenne, white pepper and salt, a hint of mace, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and two ounces of liquefied butter. Work these until a sort of paste is formed; the back of a wooden spoon should be used. Then add the yolk of an egg, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of the oyster liquor, in which the beards have been stewed (see Oyster Sauce) ; go on working the paste, and add a table- spoonful of cream, and a few drops of the essence of anchovies; put in another egg yolk, and work again for a few minutes. It is then ready for stuffing fowl, turkey, &c. If for fish, the parsley can be omitted if liked, and a little more anchovy used, but it is intended to develop the oyster flavour, not to overpower it. (See Oyster Sausages.) Oyster Forcemeat, Plain.— Required: oyster sauce, bread, egg, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. Take a gill of Oyster Sauce, made plainly; while it is warm, mix in some crumbs of bread, and stir until a paste is formed, which will leave the sides of the pan; extra seasoning will bo wanted to impart flavour to the bread. When cool, add part of an egg and use. If for baked fish, the rest of the egg will serve for brushing it over. Oyster Forcemeat, Plain, from Tinned Oysters. — Re- quired: a tin of oysters, bread, roux,FORCEMEATS. 491 milk, and seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. To pretend that this is as good as force- meat from fresh oysters would be foolish, but it is a very fair substitute for the real thing. Turn out a tin of oysters into a saucepan, and heat them gently,not quite to boiling point, then add a little white roux to the liquor, after draining off the oysters on to a coarse wire sieve ; boil it up, and add it to the oysters, and rub all through the sieve. Then flavour with the usual ingredients (see foregoing recipes), and add some bread which has been soaked in a little milk, and squeezed dry, then beaten or sieved. About half the bulk of bread to the oyster mixture is enough. An egg is an improvement, but can be left out. Another tcay.—If the sieving is ob- jected to, the oysters may be chopped up; the best part of tinned oysters is the liquor, the oysters themselves being shrivelled and flavourless, therefore they are not nice if added whole. A couple or three fresh oysters will give a superior flavour to the forcemeat; the liquor should be reduced and added (see Oystee Sauce). Panada, Bread, French.— Required: bread, and milk, stock-, or butter. Cost, about 3d. per lb. Take some crumb of bread, a day or two old; soak it inboiling water to cover for a few minutes; squeeze dry in a clean cloth ; put it in a saucepan, and break it up with a fork; add a little boiling milk or hot stock, just to make a thick paste ; stir and cook for a few minutes, then turn out on a plate to cool for use. Or use a morsel of butter to moisten the bread, instead of stock. Panada, Bread, Ordinary. —Required : materials as above, with the addition of an egg. Soak the bread as above directed, then beat it up, and add either white stock or milk to make a paste; beat over the fire with an egg, yolk only, to each half pint of panada, and when it is a smooth paste and leaves the sides of the pan clean, turn it out for use. A copper or steel pan is best for these preparations. It is important that light, delicate bread be used ; bad bread, will completely spoil the mixture. Panada, Flour, French.— Required: water, an egg, salt, flour, and butter. Cost, about 3d. Put on the fire, in a smallcopper stew- pan, half a pint of water, with a good pinch of salt and an oimce of butter ; shake in very gradually, from the left hand, some fine, dry flour, sifted; stir all the time, and after enough flour to make a paste has been used, stir and cook the panada for five minutes. As much flour as the water will absorb is to be used; the paste should be thick and free from lumps. From four to five tablespoonfuls of flour will probably be wanted, and the water should boil fast before it is put in. Great care is needed to prevent burn- ing or lumpiness, as the least suspicion of either would spoil it. As soon as it is cooked stir in the yolk of a raw- egg that has been freed from the germ. Give a few minutes’ beating off the fire, then turn out for use as required. It should be put by in a cool place. Panada, Flour, Ordinary.— Make the panada as above, but leave the egg out; use an extra half ounce of butter in the water ; and if for fish dishes, any light fish stock should be used in place of all, or part of the water; for chicken or veal, use the same stocks. Where a good quantity of panada is made at once for many dishes, this is, of course, impracticable. In all our recipes, unless otherwise stated, this is the panada intended to be used. Partridges or Pheasants, Forcemeat for.—Required : the livers of the birds, with one or two chicken livers, four ounces of raw bacon, rather fat, two ounces of raw veal, the same weight of bread-crumbs, an egg, seasoning, and cream. Cost, about 8d., exclusive of tho livers. Bring the livers to tho boil, after492 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. putting thorn on in cold water ; dry and chop thorn, add tho veal, scraped, and the chopped bacon, and thon the bread, which has boon moistened with boiling cream and strained; rub all through a sieve, add pepper and a pinch of cayenne, and salt if needed ; beat in the egg yolk, and use for a brace of small birds, or one large one. To this many other seasonings may be added by those who like them; shalots or capers, mushrooms, horbs, and various spices are often put into such a forcemeat, but many will approve of one which allows the flavourof the bird to preponderate. Note.—By soaking the bread-crumbs in sherry insteal of cream, another variety is obtainable. Piquant Forcemeat.—This is intended for Con A lT.vdienn-e, or any similar dish. The quantity made must be regulated by the size of the fish; we give the proportions of the several ingredients. Required : bread, butter, onion, thyme, parsley, and marjoram, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, pickles or chutney, egg, milk, &c., as below. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. Put a pint of bread-crumbs in a bowl, rub in three ounces of butter, or clarified fat (the latter does for very plain dishes), add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a small onion, chopped, a saltspoonful of thyme and marjoram, salt to taste, a quarter teaspoonful of whito popper, rather more French mustard, and a good pinch of cayenne. Chop up a teaspoonful or so of hot pickles,, either clear or thick; add them with a beaten egg and about half a gill of milk ; the staleness of the crumbs must regulate this; it should be added gradually; it must bo moist only, not sloppy. A morsel of chut- ney may ho used if no pickles are handy, and a pinch of ginger increases the piquancy. It is excellent for fresh water fish of almost any sort. Note.—Any ordinary herb forcemeat, with tho additions named above in the shape of mustard, pickles, &c., will serve the same purposes. Fork Forcemeat. — Required: apples, onions, sage, thyme, parsley, seasoning and potatoes. Cost, about 6d. This is an old-fashioned but very excellent forcemeat. It is only another variety of the popular sago and onion stuffing, and will be found as good for geese, ducks, or mutton, as for pork. Take for it four onions of medium size, apples, tho same size and number, half a dozen sage leaves, a sprig of lemon thyme and parsley, and some seasoning and potatoes. Peel and chop the apples, or bake them, and use the pulp, which is a better way. Boil the oniohs with the herbs until done, then strain them, and chop or sieve them ; add the apples, with black pepper and a little salt, and enough mashed potatoes to make a smooth mass. Then use, after it has cooled. (See also Sage and Onion Forcemeat.) Potato Forcemeat, for Goose.—Required : potatoes, butter, or dripping, seasoning, the liver of a goose, and other ingredients as below. Cost, on an average, about 2d. to 3d. par pound. There are several ways of pre- paring this ; one is, to peel and cut up the potatoes into dice, and to sweat them in a little butter until they are partly cooked; a good-sized onion to two pounds of potatoes is chopped and put in with them, salt and pepper, and the goose liver, chopped, being the only other ingredients. Another tvay, and we think a better one, is to use mashed potatoes, mixed with a small proportion of onion, sliced and lightly fried, the liver of the goose and a little sage, with black pepper and salt; an egg to two pounds of potatoes is a decided improvement ;tho stuffing will be smoother and cut more evenly. Rice Forcemeat. — Required : rice, butter, cream or milk, an egg, and seasoning. Cost, about fid. or 7d. per pound, for a plain forcemeat. This is suitable for sucking pig, or may be used for veal. Some rice should be493 FORCEMEATS. boiled and left to dry, then mixed with an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of cream (to each half pound), one raw egg, and a little seasoning of salt and pepper, with a pinch of ground mace or nutmeg. For superior forcemeat, the rice and butter are pounded before the other ingredients are put in; some- times a very small proportion of chopped raw ham is added, and is an improvement. For stuffing full-grown pork, either for boiling or baking, boiled split peas are added to the rice; the proportions being a matter of taste. Rich. Raised Pies, Force- meat for.—Required : twelve ounces of lean raw veal, eight ounces of fat raw bacon, four ounces of lean raw ham, and other ingredients as below'. Cost, about Is. 6d., without truffles. The veal should be very fresh, and cut from the fillet. Lay it on a board, and scrape it to a pulp, leaving nothing but the sldn. Scrape the bacon, and add it, together with the ham first chopped, then pounded with a morsel of butter. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace or nutmeg. Blend very thoroughly and add about a tablespoonful of veal gravy or stock, first strained; this moistens the force- meat, and makes it cut more evenly when cooked. This is to be regarded as the foundation ; various adjuncts for pies of different kinds may be added. For those of veal, herbs are indispens- able ; while for game pie3 truffles are an improvement. Sage and Onion Forcemeat. —Required: bread, onions, sage, and seasoning. Cost, about 2d. to 3d. per pound for the plain, and about 4d. per pound for the rich forcemeat. If required very mild, peel and boil the onions until quite done, and boil the «age leaves also for a few minutes; allow a fresh sage leaf, or two dried ones to each moderate-sized onion; after chopping, season with salt and pepper, and add about a tablespoon- ful of bread-crumbs to each onion used ; some soak the bread in the onion water, then squeeze and beat it up instead of making crumbs of it. Another way.—Boil the onions for a few minutes only, and add sago as above, with seasoning to taste. If dried sage leaves are added use double the quantity. The proportion of sago and onion can only be approximately stated, for while some like but a hint of sage, others prefer that flavour to almost overpower that of the onion. This may bo used as it is, or bread, about half as much as given in the above recipe, may be put in. In the opinion of some cooks bread spoils the stuffing; others use it in large pro- portion, and add butter and raw yolks of eggs. These two ingredients arc, however, quite unnecessary, because the meats with which this stuffing is used are sufficiently rich without them. These are suitable for pork, ducks, and geese. Sage and Onion Forcemeat (very superior). — Required: onions, butter, bread, sage, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 3d. per pound. Take some onions, cut them up into quarters, and put them in cold water in a saucepan, with a pinch of salt and sugar. Bring to the boil, drain, and dry them-well, then chop them up, and to half a pint, add an ounce of butter in a clean saucepan. Sweat them for about a quarter of an hour, and then add to them an equal measure of bread- crumbs, wdth seasoning to taste; about a hexped tablespoonful of chopped sage if fresh, or one and a half to two tablespoonfuls if dried, with salt and pepper, are all the necessary ingre- dients, but for some this is improved by adding a little parsley and nutmeg; or thyme is sometimes liked with sage. The above proportions of crumbs and onions can be varied at pleasure ; a pint of onions to half a pint of crumbs will suit thoso who like plenty of onions. The idea is to improve tho stuffing generally by tho preliminary boiling and sweating of tho onions. Should they be very strong, they may be scalded before blanching, or a494 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. second blanching answers the same purpose; that is to say, the water should bo renewed, and again brought to the boil. (See Spanish Onions, under Vegetables.) Shrimp Forcemeat, Plain. —Required: bread.shrimps, butter, egg, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 4d. to 6d. per half pint on an average. For the foundation, bread-crumbs and chopped shrimps, in equal parts, should be mixed together, then made into a paste with an ounce of butter—to each half pint or so of the mixture—and a beaten egg. The seasonings are regulated by the sort of fish it is to be used for ; it is excellent for fresh water fish, then rather a high seasoning is wanted : salt, pepper, and cayenne, with a little essence of shrimps or anchovies. For any white fish—and we may refer to fresh had- dock as very good stuffed with it— a more delicate seasoning is desirable. Another way.—Use more butter, say another ounce, and instead of shrimps take half a pint of bread-crumbs, and mix in a teaspoonful of shrimp paste with essence as above named. In addition to the egg, a spoonful of milk improves it. By some, a small quantity of parsley is thought an im- provement. The flavour is certainly rather peculiar, but pleasant. White Sauce, or Shrimp Sauce, should be served with the fish. Tomato and Mushroom Forcemeat. — Required: half a pound of white mushrooms, the same weight of tomatoes, other materials ns below. Cost, about Is. Make a puree pf the mushrooms (sec recipes under Mushrooms), brown or white as required ; add, while it is still hot, the tomatoes, rubbed through a sieve, a chopped shalot, salt and pepper, lemon juice and a pinch of herbs. Stir for a few minutes, and if white mush- room puree, put in a good tablespoonful of any nice white sauce; if a brown puree, use brown sauce. Then mix in fine bread-crumbs until the mixture forms a soft paste ; in a few minutes turn it out, and add a beaten egg; continue the mixing until the whole is smoothly blended, and forms a mass free from streakiness; it is ready for use when cool. Many people have tested the excellence of mushrooms stuffed with tomatoes, or tomatoes filled with mush- room puree; fewer, perhaps, have tried a stuffing of the two combined. Its uses are endless for fish, flesh, and fowl, and it is as nice cold as hot ; for cold dishes, however, it is all the nicer if an ounce of butter be stirred in just as it is taken from the fire. Tomato Forcemeat. — Re- quired : a gill of bread-crumbs, half a gill of tomato pulp, either from fresh tomatoes sieved, or the pulp in bottles (see Tomatoes), two ounces of butter, an ounce each of veal and ham, seasoning, and a raw egg. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. Mix the crumbs and pulp in a basin: add the butter, just melted, and the ham and veal chopped small; put in salt and pepper, a little lemon rind, grated, and a few drops of colouring to give a pink tinge. Mix in the yolk of the egg, first well beaten, and set aside, covered, for an hour before using. This is nice for filling a rabbit or fowl, or for a boned shoulder or anything in which it will be enclosed. If it is to be spread, it must be made firmer by decreasing the amount of tomato pulp, or adding more bread. May be varied by adding beef sausage meat, or any other sort preferred, in- stead of the veal and ham. A small onion or shalot, chopped, would im- prove this for some, so would parsley. Tomato Forcemeat,for Fish. —Required: fish, stock, bread-crumbs, an egg, brown sauce, an onion, a tomato, butter or dripping, fish and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d., but varies with the fish used. This is very savoury, and suitable for a baked fish w'ith which Tomato Sauce, or a sauce or gravy of the brown kind would be served. Pour a little boiling fish stock over half a pint of bread- crumbs ; pour off any superfluous moisture, and add a beaten egg and aFORCEMEATS. 4 95 tablespoonful of brown sauce. Fry a small onion and a largo tomato, both sliced, in two ounces of butter or clari- fied fat; add them to the rest, with seasoning to taste. Then put in four or six ounces of raw white fish, cut up small or sieved; the latter is much the better. Blend well. This should be made stiff if for balls or cakes for fish stews, using some dry crumbs in place of some of the soaked ones. If moulded small, and coated with egg and crumbs, they may be fried, and used for gar- nishing many fish dishes. Udder, Veal, for Forcemeat. —Boil the udder in veal broth until quite tender; when cold, trim away the upper part, and pound it well before adding it to the other ingredients. Veal Forcemeat.—This is com- monly known as veal stuffing, and varies greatly in its composition, degree of richness, and flavouring adjuncts. The foundation consists generally of suet and broad; in some recipes directions are given for using' equal weights of these two ingredients, but such a forcemeat is very rich, and by no means light, and not suitable for eating cold. For ordinary use the following will he found rich enough. -Vo. 1.—Required: half a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of suet, half a lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of thyme if fresh, more if dried, a raw egg, a tablespoonful or two of milk, and about a saltspoonful of grated nut- meg. Cost, about 6d. Sieve the bread, chop the suet, grate the lemon, and blend with the rest of the dry mate- rials ; mix very carefully before the liquids are added, to distribute the seasoning, then beat the milk, egg, and strained lemon juice together, and add to the rest. Marjoram or any other herbs may be added, and leas lemon and nutmeg will suit some tastes. For a better forcemeat, pound the whole. Good clari tied fat or butter may take the place of the suet, and if a little fat bacon be used, less of cither will he required. When this is done remember to reduce the quantity of salt. No. 2.—Required: six ounces of bread-crumbs, two ounces of lean raw ham, one ounce of fat bacon, the same of butter, salt and pepper, cayenne and lemon peel to taste, about half the quantity of herbs given in the above recipe, and two eggs. Cost, about 7d. or 8d. Rub the butter into the bread, add the scraped bacon and chopped ham, and finish as above directed. If the eggs are large, one, and the yolk of tho second will suffice. This is a tasty mixture, and nice when cold. No. 3.—This is the rich force- meat refereed to in several of our recipes. Required : half a pound of bread-crumbs, four ounces of raw ham, rather fat, the samo of butter, half a lemon, rind and strained juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne, and herbs to suit the palate, and three largo, or four small, eggs. Cost, about Is. Blend the materials as directed in No. 1. If the lemon rind be chopped instead of grated, a pinch of salt facilitates tho process, but grated rind is the nicer. A portion of veal kidney suet may re- place the butter when to be eaten hot, but not for delicate dishes, such as pies, &c. {See also Veal Forcemeat, Rich.) Veal Forcemeat, Rich.— Required : six ounces each of raw veal and ham (or half bacon), three ounces of veal suet, seasoning, Sec., as under. Cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. After mincing tho meat and chopping the suet, add a little salt, pepper, cayenne and mace, and mix in about an equal bulk of Bread Panada, for which veal stock instead of water should be used. Pound the mixture, and add a raw egg "by degrees. The exact dogreo of moisture required is best determined after a little pounding; another egg yolk or a little cream may ho wanted, or a spoonful of veal slock may ho used. It can ho used for turkeys or fowls ; it is a change from496 Universal cookery book. ordinary sausage meat, and if the suet is objected to it can be left out, and then will be rich enough for most. Owing to the use of panada instead of crumbs, it is less close than ordinary forcemeats, but when this lightness is not liked, crumbs can take the place of some of panada. Whiting Forcemeat. — Re- quired : two or three whiting, half the weight of panada, eggs, &c., as below. Cost varies with the price of the fish. Skin the whiting, rub theflesh through a wire sieve, first scraping it from the bone with a spoon ; add panada as above, put both in a mortar, and add an egg and an ounco and a half of butter to half a pound of the mixture. Put a little salt and cayenne in, and g'° on pounding to a smooth paste. Grated lemon rind and powdered herbs can be added. The seasoning must be regulated according to the purpose for which it is required. When forcemeat of whiting would be too expensive, or the fish not to be had, fresh haddock, if small, makes a very fair substitute. Soles and other white fish may be used in the same way, but fresh, firm fish is absolutely indispensable. A watery fish will not answer. POTTED MEATS AND FISH. These arc very useful, and as a rule are much appreciated. By the ex- penditure of a little time, many excellent relishes may bo made at a trifling expense; for the veriest scraps of meat, so long as they are sweet and not too dry, may bo.thus turned to good account. In the recipes we hare given the approximate amounts of butter and seasonings, but very much must, of necessity, bo left to the discretion of the cook. For example, a piece of salted meat or ham that is very lean will take more butter and less seasoning than juicy meat, either roasted or braised. Then, of seasoning in the form of spices, while cloves and all- spice are appropriate for hare, they are quite unsuitable for delicate meats, like veal, rabbit, or chicken ; but in potting meats, as beef, tongue, and the like, the samo spices may be used if it is desired to impart a gamey character to the dish. The main points, however, are care in the preparation of the ingredients, and the use of good butter. For without these precautions, the most artfully-seasoned meat will be a failure. In cutting up the meat, all gristly portions, as well as bard, outside fat, should be removed ; so should any parts which will not go down smoothly in the pounding. In fact, the mas3 should bo a smooth paste, free from a single lump, or a particle of unbroken fibre. The preparation of fish for pottiug is less trouble than that of meat.; for, given freedom from bone and skin, it is a simple matter to reduce it to a paste. In every instance, though, it should be borne in mind that pounding is necessary after all the ingredients are mixed—even after the mass looks smooth—in order that the whole may be equally blended. It is quite as unpleasant to get an over-dose of spice iu potted meat, as it is to eat a mouthful of plum cake with a lump of carbonate of soda in it. If no mincing machine be at hand, the meat must be chopped on a board with a good knife before pounding, for if it is put into the mortar in coarse, uneven pieces, much labour is entailed that might be spared, and the result after all is far from satisfactory.Plate POTTED MEAT BASKET WITH ASPIC BORDER.POTTED MEATS AND FISH. 497 Oue warning may bo given respecting- tlie condition of tlio meat; wo have already said that the veriest scraps may bo used so long as they are sweet; bnt some people seem to regard all animal food that is not actually putrid as sweet; so long as any slightly unpleasant flavour can be masked by seasoning, they consider it fit for table and consumption. This is mistaken economy; worse still, it is most dangerous economy. If, by accident or mismanagement, meat is ever allowed to become unpleasant, there is only one tiling to be done, i.e. throw it away, for it should not be forgotten that though it may be possible to make it palatable by seasoning, it is not possible to render it wholesome. Potted meats will keep some time, if well seasoned, and stored in a cool, dry place; and in preparing them the seasoning should be considerably in- creased if they are to be kept long. In filling the pots room should be left for a layer of clarified butter or lard, to the depth of a quarter of an inch; or if for long keeping, it is safer to use melted suet. This is, however, to be removed when sent to table, a little butter being then melted and poured over. To keep out the dust, “ parchment paper,” or “ vegetable parchment ” as it is generally called, should be tied over it. The pots used are round or oval, generally of earthenware, but for keeping, we recommeud the use of glass; oval or round “ moulds ” are sold very cheaply, and the meat can thus be watched from time to time. Anchovies, Potted.— Required: anchovies, butter, seasoning,and colour- ing as below. Cost, about 6d. for a small pot. Boneless anchovies are best for this. {See Anchovies.) After scraping them very clean, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste, then rub through a fine sieve. But the paste back in a mortar, and pound again with fresh butter, which should be at least equal in weight to the anchovies, and if a mild paste is wanted it must be in- creased. Mace and cayenne are the usual seasonings ; a little colouring is an improvement if desired pink, but care must be taken to blend the mixture, or the colouring will give a streaky look. This keeps well, and only a thin layer of butter need be put ovct it. Small pots are best, that it may be quickly used when opened. Tie them down with bladder or parch- ment ; if for present use, paper answers, as it is only wanted to keep out the dust. Note.—A mixture of anchovies and sardines will be found very agreeable ; or a little cooked white fish may be introduced. Beef, Pointed.— Required : beef, butter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. for a half-pound pot. In the opinion of some people, the best potted meat is made from that which is cooked on purpose, by placing it in a jar, with a tablespoonful of water to the pound, tying it down, and setting it in a saucepan of water, “ jugged hare ” fashion, and letting the water boil for some hours round the jar. The meat should get cold before tlio jar is opened. This method is very good, undoubtedly, when a quantity is required, and it is worth while taking the extra trouble. But for ordinary occasions tho remains -of a roast, if not too much done, answers admirably. From six to eight ounces of butter is not too much for a pound of lean meat; if some of tho fat is used—which is really an improvement —reduce the butter. Flavour with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. By498 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rubbing the mortar with garlic or onion, additional flavour is imparted. If for immediate use, add a spoonful of strong stock or gravy, but not when it is to be kept. Note. ■— Tinned beef, roasted or boiled, may be potted, but is all the bettor if mixed with some freshly- roasted meat. Some cookery books direct that the beef from beef tea bo potted, and assert that it will be found good. We can only say that if the beef tea has in it all the goodness it ought to have, the only nourishment in such potted moat would bo in the butter. Beef, ; alt, Potted.—Inquired: beef, butter, seasoning, and veal or mutton if approved. Cost, about Is. fid. per pound. ' If very lean, plenty of butter is wanted for this, which makes it some- what expensive; should the meat be fat, equal parts of the fat and lean, with about two ounces of butter will make a nice mixture; a couple of ounces of cooked veal or mutton is a decided improvement. Proceed as usual, and flavour with cayenne, nut- meg, and black pepper; no salt is wanted. Fresh boiled beef is very good potted; to this, salt as' usual must be added, and a dash of anchovy improves it. Beef, Spiced, Potted.—The remains of any pieces of spiced beef (for which sec Joints and Plain Dishes) can be used up by potting, but no salt or spice should be put in until it has been pounded with the butter; then any seasoning that may be wanted should be added by degrees. Beef and tongue together—the one spiced, and the other plainly cured— are a good combination. Bloaters, Potted (or Bloater Paste).—Required: bloaters, butter, cayenne, and nutmeg, and white fish if approved. Cost, about lOd. for a pot made from four bloaters. The fish should be scalded after cook- ing them, then dried well, and bone and skin removed. To each bloater of good size, add an ounce of butter, season with cayenne and nutmeg, and pound well; after filling the pots, put them in the oven for a minute, then let them cool before putting the clarified butter on; this should be liquid, but not hot. The bloaters should be mild-cured ones. Some white fish, about a fourth the entire weight, can be mixed with the bloater ; it is sometimes thought an improvement; fresh haddock or any firm fish answers, and baked fish is nicer than boiled. Dried haddock, nicely cooked, and prepared in the same way as the bloaters, may be potted. A large, fleshy haddock should bo chosen, and the butter must not be spared. Chicken, Potted. — Required : twelve ounces of chicken, four ounces of ham, three or four ounces of butter, about half a teaspoonful of salt, the fourth of a small nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and the same of mace. Cost, from Is. 4d. to Is. fid. on an average. The meat may be cut from a roasted or braised chicken ; it should be freed from every bit of skin and gristle. The best of the meat should be used if first- class potted chicken is desired—the tenderest we mean ; it is a mistake to imagine that any bits do for potting, when chicken is under treatment. After cutting up the meat small, put it in a mortar with the ham, also minced; if both can be put through a mincer first so much the better. Begin to pound, adding the butter and seasoning little by little ; the various seasonings should be mixed first, but it is well not to add all the salt at starting ; it will not be required unless the ham is very mild. Store in little pots in a cold place. Note.—If any of this is required for immediate use, in the form of sand- wiches for instance, a spoonful each of cream and good white stock will make it very delicious; neither must be added to the meat if it is to be kept. Game, Potted. — Required : game, butter, and spices as below. Cost variable, from fid. to Is. for a small jar. Any sort of game, so long as it is nicely cooked and tender, may bePOTTED MEATS AND FISH. 499 potted; the only ingredients that need be added are about half the weight of butter (though the exact amount must depend entirely upon the dryness, or otherwise, of the meat used), salt and cayenne, with a suspicion of nut- meg or mace if liked, but many will prefer it without either. The pounding should be very thorough. Finish off in the usual way and send to. the table nicely garnished. Game, Mixed, Potted for Keeping. — Required : pheasant, partridge, grouse, &c., with any poultry there may be handy, butter and seasoning as below. Cost, very variable. The- game and poultry should he roasted in the ordinary way and well cooked. If underdone the meat will not keep, whereas by thorough cooking and high seasoning it may be kept for some time. Birds that are somewhat old may he made into tasty relishes by this pirocess. When cooked leave until cold, then take away the skin and cut up the flesh; it should be raised clear from the bones; if the legs are wanted for a devil or grill, leave them, but if not, put them with the rest. Put all the bones aside with the skin, &c., for conversion into a “ fumet ” for other dishes, or for stock for soup, &c., as required. Then pound the meat after chopping, adding clarified fresh butter by de- grees. The amount must be regulated by the condition of the meat; if very dry it will take a third or more its weight. Salt, cayenne, and black pepper are the only seasonings really required, but other spices and anchovy essence may be used. Small pots should be used, and the covers must be of bladder. Store in a cold place. Sole.—A small proportion of mild fat bacon may replace some of the butter. More seasoning than for potted meat for present use is required; the meat should taste quite hot. This is nseful for many purposes. Game, Mock, Potted.—Re- quired : four ounces of bacon, the same weight of rabbit, half a pound of calf’s liver, a bead of garlic and season- ing as under. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. Mince the cooked liver and bacon; the first should be fried, and the latter may be fried or grilled; mince the garlic, pound all together, adding about a teaspoonful of good Worcester sauce, and the rabbit (this maybe from boiled or baked rabbit), and nearly a teaspoonful of Heruaceous Mixture, for which see Seasonings. Then put in a tablcspoonful of brown mushroom puree, made by cooking mushrooms in a little butter to a pulp (sec Mushrooms). Then pound well for some time; press very tightly in the pots, and set for a few minutes in the oven. Finish off in the usual way. This is a very nice relish, almost equal to potted game of the genuine kind. We may add, though, that if a morsel of game be used, or hare instead of rabbit, or some game livers, the mix- ture is still nicer. Add no salt until all he pounded, then taste it; the bacon may salt it almost enough. If more pepper is needed, use black; or for a very highly-seasoned compound, ground cloves may be used in addition. Ham, Potted, Economical. —Required: ham, butter, bacon, and seasoning as below. Cost from Is. to Is. 4d. per pound jar. The remains of a ham will serve for this, and if very lean a little fat bacon should he boiled for mixing with it; otherwise, a good deal of butter is wanted, and this is a costly item. As a rule, mild-cured ham is preferred to smoked ham for potting; the smoky flavour is apt to he too strong. Should it he used, more butter will he wanted. For ordinary ham, allow about four ounces of fat bacon and butter mixed to each half pound. The seasoning most gener- ally approved is a mixture of mace, cayenne, and pepper; some people add finely-powdered buy leaves or French mustard. A piece of bacon, any nice part in which the fat and lean are fairly equal, makes a good imitation ofUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 500 potted ham. People going picnicking, Ac., in largo numbers, who may be taking a supply of sandwiches, may be glad of the hint. (Sec Sandwiches.) Ham, Potted, Superior.— Use ham that has been baked and left uncut until cold; the outside fat should be removed, and enoughinnerfat and butter together used to make a rich, moist paste ; about half a pound to each pound of lean ham. Season to taste with spices, as in the recipe above. Lobster, Potted. — Required : a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, a little salt, the eighth of a small nutmeg, grated, three or four ounces of butter, and the meat of a small, freshly-boiled lobster. Cost, about 2s. Gd. on an average. Pick out all the soft moat, and rub that of the claws through a sieve ; mix all together, and add the seasoning, and pound thoroughly, adding the butter by degrees; in very cold weather the butter may be beaten to soften it, but it should not be made oily. When quite smooth, press firmly into small jars, and pour clarified butter over the top, after it has cooled. Sot aside in a cool place. It may bo served as soon as the butter has set. 11 is useful for sandwiches, savouries, &c. The coral may be pounded with the rest, unless any is required for other purposes, then half may be made into lobster butter, or used as required. Tinned lobster may be used as above, but the best brands should be chosen. Another way.—This is very cheap. Take half a tin of lobster, and the same bulk of any cooked white fish, free from bone and skin ; pound together with seasoning to taste, and a little butter, and add a teaspoonful of essence of shrimps; failing that use essence of anchovies. The result is very little inferior to potted lobster as above. If not to be kept, a spoonful of white sauce moistens and improves the mix- ture, and a few drops of colouring should not be omitted. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. on an average. Pheasant.Potted.ala Finch. —Required: equal weights of cooked pheasant and rabbit, and to half a pound of the two add half a glass of Madeira, salt and pepper to taste, a large tablespoonful of rich brown sauce, and two to three ounces of butter. Cost, from Is. 3d. upwards. Pound the meat and butter fust; mix the brown sauce and wine together, and add them little by little, pounding all the time. If a spoonful of Pc met op Game can bo put in, it may be sub- stituted for part of the wine, or it may be thickened to the consistence of brown sauce, and added instead of that. Fill any pretty glass moulds, or small deep dishes, and serve daintily. The dish or mould should be put on a small flat dish covered with a lace paper, or prettily-folded serviette, and a garnish of cress or other green salad used. Partridge can bo used in the samo way. For a plainer dish of either, omit the wine, and, if liked, the sauce, increasing the butter. Potted Meat Baskets.—Re- quired : potted meat, butter for piping, and other garnish, &c., ns below. Cost of meat, from Is. per pound on an average. These dishes are made at small cost, and arc very effective in ap- pearance, and therefore useful where a number of cold savouries are wanted. Those who have a variety of moulds at hand may produce all sorts of shapes, but even an ordinary round or oval cake tin, or a pudding basin will answer. Full directions for the pre- paration of the meat will be found on page 496, and in the recipes in the alphabet. For a beef or tongue basket, the meat should be coloured nicely, but not made too red. It must be put in the mould a little at a time, and well pressed, that it may tako the shape, and the mould should be slightly buttered all over. The top of the meat must be made smooth by means of a palette knife, so that when turned out it may stand evenly on the dish. It must then be put in a cold place for a few hours, when it will turn out easilyPOTTED MEATS AND FISII. 501 if loosened round tho odge. The handle of tho basket may be formed of a piece of flat cap wire, such as is usod by milliners. It must be bent to shapo, and stuck firmly into tho meat. This should be covered both sides with curled butter, and the rim—and if liked, the baso of the basket—is to be treated similarly. More butter is to be put on from a forcing bag with a thread pipe, as shown in the coloured Plate Y. (See also Garnishes.) For a basket made of pale meat, as veal or chicken, it is well to add a little cream during the pounding, for the purpose of whitening the meat. Green butter, or ham butter, or egg butter, may then be used for the decoration, with better effect than plain butter. The basket looks nice when dished on a block of jelly as shown. This must be stiff, or may crack under the weight. There is special danger of this if placed for some time in a hot room. A plain green salad may be used in addition, or parsley with eggs. Or the basket may be set on a block of lice. Small blocks or little heaps of chopped jelly with a nice salad, then form a tasty garnish. There are many ways of finishing off, for which see the chapter on Garnishes, where the recipes for the butters will also be found. Xote.—Fish may be potted into (he same shape, then any small shell fish is fittingly introduced into the decora- tion. Or a salad mayonnaise, sprinkled with lobster coral is very effective, and two dishes in one are thereby intro- duced at table. Where the number of dishes has to be limited by the space at command, this hint is worth re- membering. Generally speaking, the prettiest baskets are those made from about two pounds of meat, or rather less, though sometimes baskets which weigh nearly as much as a small ham are to be seen. Prawns Potted Whole.— Required : prawns, butter and season- ing. Cost very uncertain. After shelling the prawns, put the shells (well bruised) into ajar with some fresh butter; about four ounces to a pint of prawns, measured bci'oro shell- ing ; sot this in a saucepan of boiling water, and cover. When tho butler is melted let it stand for a time to extract tho flavour of tho prawns, then strain it, and add a little enyenno pepper and mace. Have tho prawns packed in shallow pots, and pour the butter over them; press them evenly, and when cold pour more clarified butter over. A little salt may bo added. The prawns will keep some time if tied down; the place thoy are stored in must be cool and dry. Bladder is best for covering if intended to keep long, but “ vegetable parchment ” answers very well. Another way.—Add Crayfish Butter or Lorsteh Better to the butter used for pouring over the prawns, instead of drawing out the flavour from the shells. The shells of the prawns can be used for fish stock, for sauce for boiled fish, &c. Rabbit, Potted. — Follow the directions for Chicken, Potted, or Veal, Potted. Babbit takes a good bit of butter, being a dry meat, and ham or bacon is also a necessity. Salmon, Tinned, Potted.— Required : a tin of fish, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, a pinch of cayenne, grated nutmeg and salt, a couple of ounces of butter, and black pepper to taste. Cost, about Is. to Is. 'Id. Tho fish should be very thoroughly drained before pounding, (lie other ingredients being added by degrees. Salmon is so rich in itself that the butter is added more for tho purpose of giving smoothness than richness. A little lobster butter or crayfish butter is a decided improve- ment to the colour, and tho flavour maybe heightened by adding a little, tarragon vinegar. By rubbing tho bottom of tho mortar with a slice of onion, just a twang will bo given which will improvo the mixture. ■Some recommend tho addition of chopped onion—we do not. If the pasteUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 502 is for present use, chopped parsley is sometimes thought to be an improve- ment. Essence of shrimps, instead of anchovies, gives another variation. Anyone in possession of a pestle and mortar will lind it well worth while to prepare potted salmon at home ; for a shilling or fourteenpence, a good- sized pot (equal to a couple of shillings- worth if bought in little tins) may be obtained. Sardines, Potted.—Required : sardines, butter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Gd. for a small jar. Boneless sardines should be used; smoked sardines may also be potted, if a highly-flavoured paste is liked. For the first-named, after freeing them from skin, pound them with about half their weight of fresh butter; add cayenne and a grate of nutmeg, and a drop or two only of essence of an- chovies, but do not destroy the sardine flavour. Finish off as directed for other fish pastes. Sardines and White Pish, Potted. —In this, the idea is to give a flavour of sardines to the other fish used; therefore plaice, fresh haddock, or any that is cheap should be chosen. The remains of any boiled for a pre- vious meal, by the addition of two or three ounces of sardines to half a pound, will make a nice little relish, with an ounce or two of butter and the requisite seasoning. Chopped capers are thought by some to improve sar- dines. Cost varies with the fish used. Shrimps, Potted. —Required : shrimps, butter, and seasoning. Cost, about 8d. on an average. These are delicious, and very little trouble. Visitors to the seaside know that a sixpenny jar of potted shrimps cannot be called an economical purchase, but when shrimps aro plentiful they can be “ home potted ” at little cost. Shell the shrimps, taking care to use freshly- boiled ones ; chop them a little, even if small, as the flavour will be better. But some butter in a lined saucepan, and let it just dissolve; then put in the shrimps, and shake them about to coat them with the butter; add a slight flavouring of cayenne, mace, and salt, and turn out into pots. Press them firmly in, and put moi-e butter on the top. About two ounces of butter will coat half a pint of shrimps in the saucepan, measured after shelling them. The top layer of butter should be a quarter of an inch thick. (See also Prawns Potted Whole.) Shrimps, Potted, or Shrimp Paste.—Chop the shrimps, and al- low about a fourth or more of their weight in butter; season as above, and add a few drops of anchovy essence and a little colouring. Pound the whole to a smooth paste, and proceed as for potted moats. Some cooks rub this through a sieve after pounding, then pound a second time, and it quite repays for the extra trouble. Both this and the foregoing should be tied down, asdirected for Pkawns Potted Whole. Veal, Potted.—Required: veal, ham or bacon, butter, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal in itself is rather insipid, and a couple of ounces of ham or bacon to ten or twelve ounces of veal will be liked by most people. But supposing none of either to be at hand, or all veal to bo preferred, proceed as follows : mince half a pound of veal, braised or roasted; pound it with about two ounces of butter, season with salt, cayenne, nutmeg, and white pepper, and about three drops of essence of anchovies ; this soupfon improves it; much more would spoil it. When very smooth and flavoured to taste, pot it in the usual way. When bacon is used, decrease the salt. A few drops of essence of herbs of any sort (see Season- ings) may be added at discretion. (See also note under Chicken, Potted.) Tongue may be added to potted veal; it makes a nice change from veal and ham.COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. (See aJso Fish, Game and Poultry, Pastry and Salads.) GENERAL HINTS ON COLD MEAT COOKERY. There are many people who pride themselves upon the fact t-liat they spend no time over the concoction of tasty dishes from scraps; “ wo have a joint,” they will tell you, “ hot one day, and we eat it cold until it is gone ; then we get another.” First, we wisli to say that we are not writing one word by way of condemnation of cold meat, which is a very good thing in its way—though, to judge by the manner some writers treat this subject, cold meat might be positively poisonous. No, a well- cooked joint, tastefully served, on a suitable dish, not much larger, that is, than the meat itself, is appetising both to eye and palate. It is rather the habit of so serving it, down to the last bit, that is so unsatisfactory and extravagant. “Why extravagant ? ” says one who is labouring under the delusion that plain monotonous fare must be cheap, and that time and money are wasted in every attempt to present the daily meals in any new form, by way, perhaps, of tempting a flagging appetite. In reply, we would urge the truth that cold meat is less satisfying than hot; it is common to hear persons say “ I had a cold dinner to-day, and am so hungry ; ” or “ I do want my tea; ” most likely long before the hour at which they usually take that meal. This is especially true in cold weather, and is such an established fact that nothing more than passing reference is necessary. Then, cold dinners, day after day, are less nourishing, conse- quently our charge of extravagance is proved; for meals that induce a feeling of hunger shortly after, and which do not supply the requirements of the body, must be the reverse of economical. And there is one more point in this connection : as a rule (there are exceptions), those who light shy of the trouble of preparing tasty dishes from joints, Ac., seldom got ne benefit of their purchases in the way of stock for soups and gravies from their bones. Very often those who put a joint on the table until the bone is bare, do nothing with that bone; it is given to the dog, or consigned to the dust-bin. “But,’says another, “is not twice-coolced meat very indigestible ? ’ It is, indeed, as prepared in some houses, but the same may be said of a stew ; a hash or mince is not a bad thing in itself, but may become a really unwholesome compound in unskilled hands. A writer says, ■' When you are confronted with a lingo dish of a watery gravy, not unlike dish-water, in which float hard lumps of meat, with perhaps a big bone in the middle, and aro asked to ‘ take some hash,’ don’t, if you can get any- thing else.” But this is an extreme case. On the other hand, if a dish is set before you with neat slices of meat, coated with a thick, rich-looking gravy, and tastily garnished, a very enjoyable snack is at your disposal;UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 504 and by “ ricli-looking,” we mean a gravy that contains nutriment and flavour by long stewing of the bone and trimmings, and by suitable and careful seasoning. Here is the secret; timo is required. It is no use to say at twelve o’clock, “we will have a hash for dinner,” if the meal be atone. The meat 1ms to be cut off neatly ; the bones may be scraped for a little dish of mince for another meal, or for a savoury toast, rissoles, croquettes, and tho like, and then put on for the foundation. Our directions for stock, gravies for hashes and minces, and the recipes of the following pages, will, wo trust, show how to do it; many are all too familiar with the way it should not bo done. We do not mean that the separate stewing of every bone is necessary; in houses where the stock-pot is used this is, of course, unnecessary; but where stock is made just as required, we mean that hours before dinner the bones must be put on to cook, in order that the gravy may be good. Then we come to the method of re-heating our meat when the gravy is ready. Either it must be put in, and not once come to the boil after; or it must simmer for some timo. Why ? In the case of good, tender meat, already cooked enough, the first plau is the better ; because meat that just boils for a few minutes gets hard, especially when cut thinly; but by covering up, and leaving it below boiling point for the time specified in our recipes, it acquires the llavours of the gravy, and is served in a succulent, tasty condition. But supposing the joint to be tough (inferior meat), or too much underdone to be palatable, the simmering method must bo adopted, and about an hour may be allowed, by which time the tough meat will hare become much more tender (if some acid, which acts upon the fibres ba put in the gravy), or the underdone meat will have become sufficiently cooked. Therefore, discretion is wanted. It is the habit of treating cold meat generally like fresh meat, and cooking it perhaps for hours, and often at too high a temperature, that has done much towards bringing rechauffes into disrepute. Do not add salt at first, and always let the gravy boil up that the thickening may cook, are good rules. The tenderer the meat the nicer will bo any dish made from it. Braised meat is excellent for any rechauffe, being moist and tender. Boiled meat wants very nice seasoning to redeem it from insipidity. Roasted or baked meat needs care to prevent it hardening. Always remember that it is well to subject meats of any sort to the action of dry heat a second time for as short a timo as possible; and that it should be protected from direct action of the heat, by vegetables, <fcc. Cottage Pie illustrates this argument. Tho best and richest of the dishes in the present chapter, almost needless to say, are not made from scraps. Many of them can take the place of a “ made dish ” from fresh meat. In fact they range from very cheap to very good, and are so varied in kind that almost every requirement may be met, and a great variety indulged in. (See also Made Dishes.) % TINNED MEATS. Preserved meat, viz., meat in tins, is now a recognised article of con- sumption. One may here and there meet with a person who says, “ Oh ! ICOLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 505 never touch tinned meat; I tried it years ago when it was first introduced and did not like it, and havo never eaten it since.” Another will relate an account of someone who was poisoned by tinned meat, and will tell yon that he would not eat it if ho were starving, so firm is his belief that all tinned meat is poisonous ; while a third condemns it sold}' on the ground of appearance. In all theso arguments there is some weight, but a littlo consideration of the objections will do much to explain them away. First, it is quite certain that those who have not tasted tinned meats since their first introduction into England, can form no idea of the vast improvements that have taken place during the past few years. The meat is still overcooked to an extent, but it differs greatly from tho stringy stuff which was the rule then, when the trade was in its infancy, and the tinning process was only in its elementary stage. Improvements havo been made, and there are now various methods in common use, which have for their object the cooking and preservation of the meat for an almost indefinite period, and under varying conditions of climate, by subjecting it to a heat much higher than boiling water. This increased heat is due to the use of certain chemicals; there are several processes, differing somewhat in detail, but the same in principle, and by all of them the preservation, simply as preservation, is perfect. So long as the tin remains sound and air-tight, so long will its contents remain sound also; and at the London Exhibition of 1851, and others of later date, tins of meat which were put up a quarter of a century before, were tested aud found good. Stores of preserved meat have been left for years in the Arctic regions, brought back to this country, and found to be good. And this brings us to the poisoning charge. In buying tinned meats, note tho tin; if bulged outwards, reject it; it proves that the air has not been fully expelled; on tho contrary, if dented inwards, there is nothing to fear. A further safeguard consists in buying meats which bear the name of a firm, whether of the exporters or importers matters little. Those who wish to make or retain a reputation are ready enough to attach their name to their goods. Most important, perhaps, of all, is the emptying of the contents of the tin in an earthen vessel, the very instant it is opened. No one thinks of leaving food, such as lobster sauce or a stew, in a tin saucepan all night, but many think nothing of taking a portion of preserved meat or fish from a tin, and setting the tin up on the pantry shelf or in a cupboard until “ next time ; ” perhaps tho chief offenders are persons whoso room is limited, as in lodgings, and whose housekeeping experience is nil. The reason that mischief may arise, if not actual poisoning, is that, so long as the air is excluded the tin cannot hurt the meat; but as soon as the air is admitted the case is altered, and briefly, putrefaction begins, and naturally the food is harmful. When a tin is first opened a rushing sound is heard ; many think that the air is escaping; the air is really entering, and this whizzing sound is another proof of goodness. There is one exception to the above rule, viz. fish in oil. sardines, &c., they do not go bad when opened, because tho oil protects the tin from the action of tho air. (See recipes in Fish.) And now to turn to appearances. A good knife to open the tin is wanted, and a careful hand in turning out the meat; a little trouble inUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 500 removing the fat, which being soft and dripping-like, is not done very easily without disfiguring the moat, and a little mote (rouble in garnishing to hide any broken places, are also essential ; and if the meat bo of three or four pounds weight, and likely to last for a few days as a breakfast dish, a ring dish is useful, as shown below. These are made in sections or rings, which are removed one by one as the meat is sliced down. They keep the meat together, and prevent dryness. In warm weather it is also a good plan to put the can into cold water with salt in, or into iced water an hour before opening. For superior sorts of tinned meats which may become broken in turning out, a little aspic jelly is a help ; it must be poured over, and when cold will not only have “ bound ” the meat, but will have improved its appearance considerably. Then, when dealing with beef or mutton of the ordinary types, for hot dishes, it is necessary to avoid breaking it up into a stringy condition; the pieces may be taken from the tiu in good-sized lumps, for such dishes as Irish Stew. For minces, the fibres should be cut right through with a sharp knife. Re- member, too, that it is comparatively tasteless and insipid ; it therefore requires a sauce or gravy of good flavour, and that being already overdone, it wants heating through only. It will also bear a higher seasoning of salt and pepper than ordinary meat; indeed, a little care in the seasoning is well bestowed. Finally, we recommend that tho store cupboard always has in it a few tins of preserved meat and fish, if only for emergencies; residents in the country are often inconvenienced wlton the butcher’s stock runs out; or from other causes; and to all they are useful iu furnishing an impromptu meal at small cost. As to tho thousands who camp out yearly, or spend a week on tho river, it is not easy to say how (hey would manage without their tinned provisions, which may now be obtained in variety to suit every requirement. Tho word Tinned is prefixed to some of the following recipes, as a means of ready reference. Unless otherwise specified, it is understood that American, Australian, or New Zealand meat may be used, and that roast or boiled is intended. Corned meat (including pressed) may, for the purpose of convenience, be used in small proportion in some of the dishes; but, generally speaking, it is better served cold—preferably, as it is lean and rather dry, with a little fat meat or bacon—and meat which is loosely packed, and has a good deal of jelly clinging to it, is the most suitable for re-heating. The various forms of meat and vegetables, and meat with some sort of sauce, must not be overlooked, as they are to be had in great I’m. 104.—Case fob Tinned Meat.COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 507 variety; they vary much in quality and price, from the homely tripe and onions to larded cutlets : the very cheapest, however, furnish plenty of choice, and are worth the attention of housekeepers who are anxious to save both time and money. Some of the thickest of the soups, or “concentrated soups” as ono firm calls them, will make an admirable hash, simply by adding a smaller proportion of water than would be required for conversion into soup. SERVING COLD MEAT. A joint sent from table should at once be placed on a clean dish, not only that it may look nicer when re-served, but that it may keep better. If the gravy is left about, it, in warm weather especially, it will sour very qnicklv. Any gravy left over should be most carefully strained for use, all the floating fat being removed and added to the fat reserved for kitchen purposes generally. Remember that just as fat spoils gravy, so does gravy spoil fat. When the joint is next sent to table, some little garnish should bo added, for the simplest of meals. The every-day sprig of parsley, or a buuch of cress, are generally obtainable, and always impart a fresh, appetising appearance. If the joint be much disfigured, or cut down low, the cut part, too, should be garnished. When required for one or two people only, or if the meat be cut down to the bone, a few slices, as neat and even as circumstances permit, will present a better appearance than the " joint ” itself. They should be served on a small dish, and suitably ornamented. Beef is best embellished with a few little piles of grated horse- radish and sprigs of parsley. Veal requires cut lemons, as well as something green; cucumber is suitable. (See directions in Garnishes for the preparation of these ingredients.) Mutton, for ordinary occasions, only requires a garnish of parsley, though savoury eggs of various kinds eat well with it, and are an improve- ment to the dish. The same can be said of veal. The green tops of young carrots or celery, or nice fresh mint leaves may be used, with other garnishing media. Beetroot is also useful; it can be cut in so many ways, and with a little “greenery ” gives a bright look to the dish. It should be brushed over with a few drops of salad oil, and added at the last moment. Ham and Tongue, when getting low, should bo sliced thinly, then rolled to look neat, and laid on a dish alternately with a morsel of parsley between each little roll; and if a few hard-boiled eggs can be added, or even a few slices or quarters, the dish is quite transformed. Pork requires some piquant accompaniment; ordinary store sauce should go to table with it, and many of the cold sauces in this work are very good. Some plain, green salad, should bo put about the dish, and various sorts of chutney and sweet pickles will tend to counteract its richness. A glance at the chapter on Salads will meet every require- ment, and although those that contain mint and cucumber at once occurUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 508 to all as nice with mutton and lamb, it should be remembered that variety is always good, and that many others are just as suitable. J THE TREATMENT OF SCRAPS. With respect io scraps generally, our dishes in this and other chapters should be regarded as suggestive. To give the possible combinations of meat and the various adjuncts, in the shape of detailed recipes, would exhaust the whole of our space; and by “ meat,” we mean animal food of all sorts. Most housekeepers know that a glance at the larder shelves will often reveal many fragments that could be turned to practical account; the ex- penditure incurred being time rather than money; and if only meals were nlauned in advance to a greater extent, the “left overs” would be less of a bugbear. It is the “leaving everything to the last moment” system which prevents the most being made of scraps. By keeping a bottle of raspings handy, some crumbs ready sieved, herbs in powder, and the frying fat clarified and ready for use, it is astonishing how much one is helped in the manufacture of little dishes. Then there are various uteusils that play no small part in saving time and labour (see Index) ; and one is illus- trated here, because, although useful in nearly every branch of the cuisine, it is particularly valuable, in scrap cookery. This handy little machine costs but a few shillings, and will grate to perfection bread, cheese, horse-radish, cocoa-nut, chocolate, suet, and many other ingredients. Then it will reduce cooked vegetables to a pulp, or grate them when in the raw state. Indeed, its uses are almost innumerable. We would next urge the necessity of exorcising personal ingenuity in dealing with scraps, for this reason: the recipes will bo robbed of half their value unless it be borne iu mind that iu scores of instances deviation from the original is not only permissible, but will probably result in an improved variety of the dish : besides, in so many of them accurate proportions are of little acconnt. or one ingredient may do duty for another. Take for example, scalloped meat or fish, or a savoury toast. Then, iu the little suacks, of which we may give croquettes as about the most familiar typo, where a certain consistence has to be given, that the mass may “ bind” and retain its shape, a cook who can originate will work wonders with the materials at her command. Hero a row bread- Fm. 105.—Rotarv Grater.509 COL!) MEAT AND SCUAP COOICUKY. crumbs instead of mashed potatoes; there a spoonful of rice in place of macaroni; and so on; while as to seasonings, there is no end to the changes that may be rung. We refer to these points, which appear so insiguitieaut to an experienced cook, as we know that the most can never be made of scraps by those who are tied to a few cut-and-dried recipes. In short, this is, of all others, the branch of cookery in which common sense is a very important ingredient. American and Australian Tinned Meats.—See recipes under Tinned Meats in this chapter. Beef Darioles, Cold. — Re- quired : aspic, beef, and pickles. Cost, abont 3d. each. Take for these some plain moulds, or hexagon or fluted if at hand (see recipes in previous chapters for various kinds of darioles); cover the bottoms half an inch thick with brown aspic, then put into each a teaspoonful of any hot, clear pickles, mixed ones for choice, cut up extremely small; stir into the aspic, and let it set. Meanwhile, prepare the meat by cutting it in the very thinnest slices possible. It may be from braised, boiled, or roasted meat. Fill up the moulds loosely with these little slices, with a sprinkling of the pickles here and there between them. Fill up with the aspic, and turn out when cold on a dish of small, green salad. Another way.—These are very nice. Lino the moulds, bottom and sides, with aspic. When quite firm, fill up with slices of meat the size of the moulds, each slice coated with IIorse- l; a dish Sauce. When within half-an- inch of the top pour more aspic over. These are pretty when turned out, the stripes of brown and white showing through the aspic. Dish them on a bid of small cress, with bits of celery round them, and outside the cress put some ring3 of cooked beetroot, with scraped horse radish in the centre. These are very nice for outdoor festivi- ties, &c. Beef, Hashed, Plain.—Re- quired: meat, gravy, seasoning, Ac- Cost, about Is. 3d. For a pound of meat, take a pint of grqvy (see page 79). Cut the meat into slices as equal in size as convenient and about a quarter of an inch thick. They are preferred thinner by many people, but there is greater fear that they will harden if too thin. Bring the gravy to the boil, then put the meat in and cover. A morsel of a pastille de legume improves the gravy, or a scrap of burnt onion. (See Seasonings.) The thickening of the gravy may be increased to suit the palate; browned flour should be used if no roux be handy. If the meat be already well cooked, dish it as soon as it is hot through; see remarks on page o04. A small dish should be used, as it keeps the meat hotter, and it should be made very hot. Add something by way of garnish—toast, in little tri- angles or other shape, is the plainest form; or some mashed potatoes, put in piles or all round the dish, or cooked vegetables of any other sort may be used. (See also Hash, American.) Beef, Hashed, B,ich. — Use meat as above to half a pint of gravy or sauce. Our recipes in Hot Sauces afford a variety. If gravy be chosen, it should be thick enough to coat the moat. Stocks Nos. 4 and 5 make good gravies, but for the best hashes the hotter stocks should be used. A rich brown colour is necessary for beef, and may be easily attained by the uso of glaze, extract of meat, and colouring. Some crofltons should be used for garnish, and the dish sent to table very hot. As a rule, the fat should bo re- moved from the meat ; gristlo should always, and tho slices should not bo raggy-looking and uneven. When u510 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. joint is down too low to make a nice hash a mince is preferable. Cost, when made from a pound of meat, about Is. (id. Beef, Minced, Plain.—Either cut the meat with a knife into tiny dice, laying the slices ono on another, and using a good knife; or chop it with a chopping knife on a board, or pass it through a mincing machine. In either case remove bits of skin and gristle. When meat is in such a con- dition that all the gristle cannot be taken away without a good deal of waste, abandon the idea of a mince, for nothing is more objectionable than these pieces of gristle, however tender may bo the meat itself; their best place is the stock-pot. Allow about a pound of meat to half a pint of gravy (sec page 79), season piquantly, and serve hot with garnish as for Hash. Cost, same as Hash. Beef, Minced, Savoury.— Required: about twelve ounces of beef, two tablespoonfuls of chopped shalots, a large teaspoonful of parsley, a saltspoonful of powdered thyme and bay leaf, a pickled walnut (chopped), and throe gills of plain stock ; fat and thickening, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Fry the shalots in a little hoof drip- ping, stir in the stock (No. 1, 2, or 4) with an ounce of browned Hour and a teaspoonful of store sauce, lloil up well, add the walnuts and a little of their vinegar, with salt and pepper and a morsel of mustard. Cut the beef in little dice (braised or boiled meat is first-rate for this), and leave it in tho gravy for twenty minutes. Bring it just to the point of boiling before serving. Put a border of potatoes round, or any other vegetables, or a few sippets of toast, or some croutons. This is very inexpensive, but most tasty, on account of the nature of the seasoning. By the exercise of a little ingenuity and forethought many varie- ties of this dish may bo indulged in. A pickled tomato furnishes a pleasant change, so does a pickled or fresh mushroom, and the same may be said of pickled fruits. (See tho recipes for Sweet Pickles.) Beef Minced, with Tomato Sauce.—Required : a pound of beef, sauce, potatoes, tomatoes, and croutons as belo\v. Cost, about 2s. (See Mutton, Hashed with Tomato Sauce.) Use beef in tho way there described, and dish similarly. Garnish with potato cakes or cones, and slices of grilled or fried tomatoes (see recipes in Vege- tables). Dot some little croutons about tho meat, or put a border of ring-shaped ones with a morsel of hot chutney or pickles, heated in stock, in the centre. This is very savoury. Beef Minced, with Vermi- celli and Marrow.—Required : a pound of meat, half a pint of gravy (see page 79), a quarter of a pound of vermicelli, and somo marrow toast for garnish. Cost, about Is. 6d. Take the meat and gravy, and when quite hot, pile the meat in the centre of half the vermicelli,which should be sim- mered in plain stock, then pile tho rest of the vermicelli over; sprinkle with chopped parsley, and put the toast hero and there (see Index for recipes). Serve very hot, or the dish is a failure. Various other toasts may be used thus, and rice or macaroni may be sub- stituted for vermicelli. Beef Pousse. —Required: twelve ounces of cold moat, one large baked potato, a teaspoonful of horse radish vinegar, the same of tomato vinegar, a little salt and pepper, a quarter pint of bread-crumbs, the same measure of brown stock and two eggs, liver as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Mince and season the meat from a tender roast; soak the crumbs in hot stock, squeeze dry, and beat finely; add a floury potato cooked in its skin, the yolks of the eggs, and the vinegar. Beat hard, then beat the whites of eggs to a froth, with a pinch of cayenne, and stir in very lightly. Have ready about two tablespoonfuls of minced calf’s liver; stir this in thoroughly, then fill any plain greasedCOLD MEAT AND SCtiAP COOKICftV. A I I mould, and steam for an hour. Turn out, and serve with hot House Radish Sauce round, and dredge the top with grated horse radish, making a circle of white the size of a Borin; round this put some cooked celery, just the ends of the white stalks with their green leaves; arrange them thickly, and put more round the base of the mould. Braised beef can be used in the same way with some of its gravy. Beef Rechauffe.—Required: a pound of meat, a tablespoonful of chutney, the same of tomato vinegar, an onion, a teaspoonful of mustard, half as much pepper, half a gill of gravy from the joint, bread-crumbs, tomato butter, brown sauce .and crou- tons. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. (id. This is a good dish, and there are few better ways of re-heating meat that is too much underdone for table in the cold state. Cut thin, even slices, and season with the gravy, chutney, mus- tard, vinegar, and the onion, chopped and fried; both sides the meat must be coated. Grease a flat dish, and put in some crumbs, then meat, then brown sauce, and so on, sauce forming the top layer. Dredge with crumbs, put a little butter over, and bake brown in a sharp oven. When done, put the croutons about, and send tomato butter to table; or if preferred, spread it over the top. {See Ixdex.) Note.—This may be greatly varied by employing other adjuncts, but the crumbs should line tl.e dish to prevent the meat hardening. Mushroom sauce in place of brown, with ketchup in- stead of chutney, may be used. Celery sance is very nice, and horse radish butter i3 a good top garnish. Breakfast Cakes, Savoury. —Required: half a pound of cold pork, a potato, a quarter of a pound of cooked onions, seasoning as below, and about three or four ounces of sausage meat (beef). Cost, about lOd. The cooked pork should be chopped up, and mixed with the sausage meat in a basin: thorough blending is necessary. The potato, preferably baked in its skin, is to bo sieved, and added next, with the oniohs, as finely chopped ns possible. They may be cooked in any convenient way; but fried ones give the best result; salt and pepper with a generous saltspoonful of powdered sago and a grate of nutmeg, go in next, with, if liked, a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Very thorough mixing is necessary. Last of all, put in the white of a raw egg, beaten to a stiff froth. Put Homo fine stale bread-crumbs on a board, and mould the mixture on the board into little oval or round cakes, the size of a nut- meg, before Battening; or cork-shaped pieces may be made. Have some fly- ing fat to cover them, very hot, and drop them in ; they should brown and crisp at once; then take the pan from the fire a little, while they cook ; in a minute or so they will be done. Drain and serve very hot. They will puff out if made and cooked as directed, and mako quite a good-sized dish. Another way. ■— Required : four ounces of cold veal, the same of beef, three or four ounces of any plain herb forcemeat, and a little ketchup and seasoning. Cost, about Is. See the foregoing recipe; make these in the same way (no potato is needed), and serve with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note — Beef sausage meat may bo used, or underdone cooked meat, and many potted meats may enter into the composition with advantage. The stuffing must not contain suet. For better cakes, coat them with beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Bubble and Squeak. — Re- quired: a nice young cabbage, about ten or twelve ounces of boiled beef (from fresh or salted meat), or roast beef, some fat and seasoning. Cost, about 8d. •Season the slices of meat with pepper, and a dust of nutmeg or mustard if liked; fry them lightly in a little hot beef dripping in a frying pan. Boil and drain the cal.bign well ; dry it in a cloth, chop it, and fry it in the same fat. Serve the cabbago512 tjRlVEliSAL CiOOIiERV liOOk. in the middle of the dish with the meat round ; or the meat can be arranged neatly on the top; some- times the meat is served in the middle, and the cabbage as a border. A small proportion of mashed potato is some- times put in with the cabbage, and a shredded onion is liked by some, or a few chives may be used. A very nice dish, similar to the foregoing, is made by frying the meat, and making mashed potatoes and boiled cabbage up into little flat cakes ; they are then rolled in crumbs and fried brown; a seasoning of herbs is generally added to them. Great care is needed in fry- ing the meat; it must be constantly turned, and as soon as pale brown and just hot through it is ready. Calf’s Head, Hashed.— Re- quired : sauce, calf’s head, &c. Cost, according to garnish. Allowa pint of sauce, any of the kinds which are usually served with boiled calf’s head, for a pound of cooked head, and tongue if any should be left. Cut the meat neatly ; moisten it with a little of the liquor, and heat it between a couple of soup plates set over a sauce- pan of boiling water; or put it in a steamer. When hot through, lay it in the sauce, and cover for a short time. Should any of the brains remain, they may be put in little piles, on some slices of tongue, and put about the dish ; eggs for garnish are also suitable, so are small croutons and Forcemeat Balls. For more elaborate dishes, when a rich sauce is used, the crofitona should be glazed if the sauce be a brown one; and mushrooms, cooked in any approved fashion, may be served round the moat. Reference to dishes under Veal in this chapter, and in Made Dishes, will suggest many varieties of this hash. Cavaliers’ Hash. — Required: meat, sauce, potatoes, and seasoning. Cost of meat, about Is. per pound. Cut some slices, nearly the third of an inch thick, from under-done mutton. Cut them in oblong pieces, then lay them in Cavaliers’ Sauce to heat through ; allow three gills to a pound. Put some Potato Ribbons round a very hot dish ; pour the meat in the centre, and garnish with little fancy croutons on the top; they should be brushed over with thin glaze, and sprinkled, some with chopped capers, and some with chopped red chillies. Send any sort of sweet chutney or sweet pickles to table with this. A cooked mutton kidney improves the above ; or some sheep’s or lamb’s liver may bo used up thus. Cold Meat Puffs.— Required: minced meat and potato pastry. Cost, from 2d. to 3d. each. Make a mince of cold meat of any sort, using thick sauce or gravy to moisten; let it be highly seasoned, as the crust should be rather thick, and the interior ought to be piquant, that the whole may ho free from insipidity when eaten. For each table- spoonful of the mince—for which see recipes, under the various kinds of meat, poultry, &c.—roll out some rounds of good Potato Pastry, the sizo of the top of a largo breakfast cup; put the mince on one side, brush the inner edges with the beaten egg, fold over, then press them, and pinch them up. They can then be baked or fried; if the former, mark them across slantwise, and brush them with raw egg, or part milk will do, and bake brown in a quick oven or before the fire. Serve with any suitable sauce or gravy. If fried, coat them with egg and crumbs, or egg and crushed vermicelli, and plunge into plenty of hot fat. As soon as brown and crisp, serve, and garnish with little sprigs of fried parsley, and lemon sliced and cut in dice. (See Cornish Pasties in Pasti-y.) Cottage Pie.— Required: a pound and a half of cooked potatoes, half a pound to three-quarters of cold meat, seasoning and gravy as below. Cost, about 9d. The potatoes must be nicely cooked and mashed while hot (see directions for Mashed Potatoes). They should /513 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. be seasoned, and beaten until light with a wooden spoon. A pie dish should then be greased, and tho potatoes put at tho bottom, to form a layer from half to an inch in thickness. The meat should be made into a thick mince of tho usual kin 1 with stock or gravy, see page 79, or it may be mixed with Ox ion Sauce, or any other which may have been sent to table with the meat. The nicer the mince, the nicer, of course, will be the pie. The meat goes next, and should be put in the centre of the bottom layer, leaving a little space all round. Then drop the remainder of the potatoes on the top, beginning at the sides—this prevents the boiling out of the gravy when the meat begins to cook—go on until all be used, making the pie highest in the middle. Take a fork, and rough the surface all over, because it will brown better than if left smooth. For a plain dish, put it in the oven just as it is, and bake it for fifteen to twenty minutes. Or it may be just sprinkled with melted dripping (a brush is used for this), or it may be coated with beaten egg, part of which may then be used in the mashed potatoes. As soon as the pie is hot through and brown, it should be served. There are many recipes for this pie, or variations of it, and in some, directions are given for putting the meat in the dish first, and all the potatoes on the top. The plan above detailed will be found the better, because the meat being enveloped entirely in potatoes runs no risk of becoming hard, as it would do if ex- posed to the direct heat of the oven. Any other cooked vegetables may be added to the above, but they shoidd be placed between the meat and potatoes, both top and bottom. If a very savoury pie is desired, make the mince very moist, and allow longer time for baking. The potatoes will absorb orne of the gravy, and be found tasty. In this case, the heat must not be tierce at starting, only at the end for the pie to brown well. For a richer pie, allow a larger proportion of meat. For a vory cheap one, half a pound of meat will do for two pounds of potatoes. Croquettes, Cheap.—Required: meat scraps, stock, seasoning, and potatoes as under. Cost, variable. All sorts of meat, with or without bits of poultry, may be used; bacon or ham improves; there must not be much fat, and skin and gristle should be as carefully removed as for belter dishes. Mince or chop the meat, an l moisten it with well-flavoured stock that will jelly when cold (see recipes for gravies under Meat Pies, and Stock No. 3). When cool enough, mould the mince into little balls the size of a walnut, or larger; parsley and, other herbs may be added at discretion (see various croquettes under Meat, Mutton, &c., in this chapter). Then coat each ball with mashed potatoes, choosing a recipe in which egg is given (see Potatoes). Shape neatly, then coat with bread-crumbs, after just moistening with a little egg and milk beaten together ; all egg is better. Fry in hot fat to cover, and servo hot after draining. Curried Balls.—Required : cur- ried rice, cold meat, bread-crumbs, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about Is. a dozen, but variable. Any cold meat does; pork or bacon in small proportion is an improvement. Allow half as much meat as rice; the latter should be warm when added, as the flavour will be better ; tho meat is to be prepared as for a minco. Cover until cold, then add bread-crumbs and egg yolk, one for half a pound of meat, and more seasoning to taste; chutney, or pickles, or salt and pepper only may be used. Some cooked mushrooms or celery may go in. Tho mass should be of the right consistence to mould with the fingers (floured) into little balls, the size of a Tanger- ine orange. They can remain until the next morning, and bo cooked for breakfast; they can bo rollod in crumbs and fried, or browned before the fire; if fried, the “ dry ” process514 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. answers ; if browned, dip them in hot dripping before crumbing them. Curry of Cold Meat.—This is very plain and cheap. Required : half-a-pound of scraps of meat, cut in dice or small slices (several kinds may be used together), a large onion, a small apple, or a few gooseberries or rhubarb stalks, or a tomato, half a pint of common stock (as No. 1 or 2), or the liquor from boiled meat or that from vegetables (as stock No. 10), a good teaspoonful of curry powder, an ounce of dripping, and half an ounce of browned flour; or, for white meat, ground rice or ordinary flour. Cost, about 10d., exclusive of the rice. Peel and slice the onion, then chop it up and fry it in the fat, first well heated; add the chopped apple, or either of the substitutes, stir for a few minutes, then mix in the powder, flour, and stock, and stir to the boil; skim the fat off and cook until the onion, &c., are tender ; add salt to taste and a little pepper if liked. Put in the meat and serve in twenty minutes, keeping it below boiling point all the time. Boiled rice should be served with this. (Sec recipes under Rice.) Supposing it is desirable to cook the meat—if underdone, for instance—let the sauce boil up well, then put the moat in and give it from half an hour to an hour’s gentle simmering, adding a little stock from time to time. Note.—A spoonful of sauce, either Apple, Tomato, or Gooseberry, or the same measure of Cucumber Sauce, or a little of the same kinds of puree may be put with the foregoing, to give the required acidity and piquancy, to increase which a spoonful of any sort of flavoured or pickled vinegar may be added; then the fresh apple is not wanted, as a plain curry of this de- scription will be just as good so treated, and the scrapings of a sauce tureen may be thus used up advantageously. Curry of Cold Meat and Vegetables.—This is a scrap dish pure and simple. To make it, take any sort of curried vegetables—a mixture is the nicest — and any left from dinner come in handy. (See recipes under Vegetables.) Supposing a pint or so of vegetables and sauce together, put in from a tablespoonful or two to half a pint, according to convenience, of any bits of cooked meat or poultry there may be in the larder; odds and ends of game may go in with any dark meats, and bits of ham, or bacon, or tongue, will “ blend ” with white meat or poultry. The whole mass should be quite thick, and put pyramid- shape on the dish, with some plainly- boiled rice or Curried Rice round it, and a hard-boiled egg or two, sliced, about the dish. Cost, variable. Cutlets, Prussian.—Required: a pound of cold meat—veal, with rabbit, chicken, or any other poultry, and a small proportion of bacon or pickled pork, or veal and bacon only— two shalots, a teaspoonful of salt, or less may do, half as much pepper, a tablcspoonful of parsley, or other similar sauce, a good-sized mush- room, a raw egg, some bread-crumbs, potatoes, and a morsel of butter. Cost, from Is. 2d. to Is. Gd. Let the meat be minced, then season it (a grate each of lemon peel and nut- meg are further improvements), chop the mushroom and shalots, and “sweat” them for five minutes in the butter; add them with the sauce, the white of the egg beaten, and enough mashed potatoes to give the desired consistency. Mould into little cutlets the size of neck of lamb cutlets, then brush them with the yolk of the egg beaten with a tablespoonful of milk. Coat them with the crumbs, and fry crisp and brown. Stick a morsel of pipe macaroni in the end to form the bone, and dish them in a ring round a mound of Mashed Potatoes or a pile of Potato Snow'. Another way.—Use mutton or beef and brown sauce instead of the above. Add the same seasonings, with the exception of the lemon peel. Serve round a mound of cooked vegetables of any sort in season.COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 515 Devizes P&t6.—Required : some cooked calf’s head, cold lamb, pickled tongue boiled, hard-boiled eggs, bacon, and strong stock and season- ing. Cost, very variable. Slice the calf’s head thinly, also the lamb and tongue; have some Brain Cakes, or cook and slice the brains; slice the eggs also, season rather highly with salt and pepper, a little lemon peel and cayenne, and mushroom pow- der if liked. Put all in a deep dish, arranging the layers alternately. Enough stock to form a jelly when cold must then be poured over; a flour and water paste should be used to cover, and the pate baked in a slow oven. For a dish which holds a quart allow an hour and a half. When cold, take the paste off, turn out the pate, and use parsley, with some eggs— Pickled Eggs arc correct—for gar- nishing. For a better class pate some cooked sweetbreads are used instead of brains; or some nice Forcemeat Balls can be mixed with the rest of the ingredients, and for a plainer pate an ox foot or some sheep’s feet may tak6 the place of the calf’s head. There are many recipes for this old- fashioned pate, but one made as above can be recommended. Dry or Scalloped Hash.-— Re- quired: half a pound of boiled salt beef, four to five ounces of mashed potatoes, a good-sized onion, chopped and fried, and black pepper, butter, and bread-crumbs. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. The meat is to be put through a mincer, or chopped and pounded, as convenient, then mixed with the vege- tables and seasoning; it is a great improvement to pass the whole again through a mincer. Then put the mixture into one good-sized or a few ' small scallop-shells, or spread on a flat dish ; either must be greased ; put the crumbs over, and the butter on the top in small pieces,'and heat in a good oven. The top should be nicely browned. Note.—Although a departure from the original, we can recommend a mixture of beef and ham or bacon, with a dash of parsley and thyme, in addition to the onion; or, for a change, the latter may be omitted, and a pinch of powdered bay-leaf added, together with a dash of ground nutmeg or other spice, or a few drops of store sauce. Another variation is to line the shells with the potato and onion mixed, and to put the meat in the centre, after sprinkling it with a few drops only- of ketchup; then to cover with more onion, and finish off as before. Any kind of beef may be used, either plainly salted or spiced ; the dish is all the better with a fair share of fat; with all lean meat, dryness is to be expected. Exeter Hash.—Required : a pound of cold meat, a pint of common stock of any sort, either from meat or vegetables, a good pint of mixed vege- tables, of the kind used for stews, sliced or in squares, seasoning, vinegar, and half an apple ; thickening, &c., as below. Cost, from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Take a stew-jar, put half the vege- tables at the bottom. Cut the meat up in rather thick pieces, dip each in vinegar with a little pepper in, add them to the vegetables, grate the apple and put it on the meat; then put in the rest of the vegetables and half the stock; cover and cook for an hour or moro, then add the rest of the stock, with the thickening; some cooked rice or other grain may bo used, or the stock may be mixed with flour, &c. Go on cooking for another hour, or thereabouts, until the vegetables are tender; then add salt to taste and serve hot. Note.—If carrols are used for the above they must be grated if raw, or cold ones may be used up; the onions must be scalded or parboiled. The stock should be warm when put in. Note.—Only meat which is under- done, or which is somewhat tough, should bo used for this form of hash. (See remarks on page 504.) Fry, Minced and Baked.— Required : half a nound of cooked fry.516 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. any sort, half its weight in macaroni, some mashed potatoes, gravy, and seasoning. Cost, 9d. or more, accord- ing to kind of fry. Mince the fry and mix with it a quarter of a pint of stock (No. 1 or 2) and some herbs, salt and pepper. Line a greased dish with mashed potatoes, put next a fried onion sliced, then the fry, more onions next, and a thick layer of mashed potatoes on the top; then put the macaroni over. This should he boiled until tender in stock of any plain sort. Cover this with more potato, and finish oS as directed for Cottage Pie. This is a cheap dish but very tasty. More gravy should be served with it, any left over from the fry being used up, and if there is no fat with the meat a little cooked bacon may be used. Another way.—Grease a shallow baking-tin and cover the bottom and sides with bread-crumbs, lay in some onions as above, then the fry; cover with a layer of boiled rice, moistened with plain stock; shake crumbs on the top, put a few bits of dripping over, and bake until heated through and the top a nice brown. G&teau.—See under Meat. Ghiac.—Enquired : meat, bread, eggs, seasoning, and vegetables. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. This is a Norwegian dish, a good meal from odds and ends. A pound of cold moat forms the foundation— meat and game, or meat and poultry, with a little bacon—a morsel of any of the savoury pates mentioned in this work could be used up in it. After passing through a mincer add a thick slice of bread, soaked in stock, soup, or gravy, and squeezed well, then passed through a siove; thero should be a breakfastcupful; two eggs, with salt and pepper to taste, are also wanted. The whole is then pressed into a flat tin, rather shallow, and baked slowly until Arm enough to turn out, then dredged well with crumbs, and browned before the fire. A good gravy is then poured over it, and peas, cauliflower! or other nice vegetable put round it. A very good dish is made by using cold fish and sauce, instead of meat and gravy. The bread may be soaked either in hot milk or fish stock ; any fish sauce can bo served with it. Another way.—Use white meat of any sort, or meat and poultry for the dish ; mix it with the bread as above directed, and put it in the mould in layers, with a sprinkling of boiled rice between the layers. Turn out and pour White Sauce flavoured with cheese over it, and put little Rice Cak.es or Balls round the base. Ham, with Spinach.— Re- quired : ham, sauce, and vegetables as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. if half a pound of ham be used. Cut some slices of boiled or baked ham, with but little fat, and lay them in a saute pan, cover them with a thick layer of Digestive Sauce, turn them and coat the other side. The pan should be slightly buttered, and the ham be left to heat through gradually, the pan being shaken a few times. Put some Mashed Potatoes in a smooth layer on a hot dish, dredge them with raspings, and lay the ham on. Prepare some small moulds of spinach (see Vegetables), and lay them round the dish; put a small crouton on the top of each, and pour a little gravy round them. To make this put some stock in the saute pan, scrape it well, then add a little thickening, colouring, and seasoning, and strain. While this is boiling up keep the dish of ham, &c., over boiling water all the time. Some sorrel, endive, nettles, turnip tops, or other green vegetables may be used in place of spinach ; small Brussels sprouts can be used also. A little Brown Sauce should bo poured over them, then no gravy is wanted round the dish. Ham with Tomato Sauce.— Required: half a pound of ham, cut in small round slices, half a pint of Tomato Sauce, a dozen small Potato517 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. Balls, and a few croutons. Cost, about Is. 3d. Follow the foregoing recipe in pre- paring the ham, using tomato sauce in place of the digestive. Dish the slices each on a crouton, a little larger than the ham, overlapping down a dish. Glaze the potato balls, and put them down the sides, and send the rest of the sauce to table. Or, at the ends of the dish put a puree of any green vegetable, and pour the sauce round it. Ham with. Vermicelli and Pickles.—Required : three quarters of a pound of ham, cut as above, brown sauce, an oblong slice of bread, fried or toasted, hot mixed pickles and vermi- celli. Cost, about Is. 8J. Heat the ham in brown sauce to cover {see last recipe but one), dish on the bread, and put the vermicelli (or macaroni) round; it should be cooked in brown stock. Garnish with little heaps of hot, clear pickles, minced, and heated in sauce or stock. These are tasty snacks for any meal. Hash, American, Corned Beef.—Required: a pint of chopped corned beef, a pint and a quarter or rather less of mashed potatoes, a couple of ounces of butter or dripping, salt and pepper, some toast or fried bread, stock, and parsley. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. The meat and potatoes are to be mixed and moistened with stock, about half a gill being added at first; more will be wanted if the potatoes are very dry, but avoid making the mix- ture sloppy. Heat the fat in a shallow stewpan and put in the rest, then set it where it will allow the contents to become brown and set. When done, turn out on a hot dish, with the parsley and bread round it. Another way.—The fat should be melted and mixed with the rest. The pan is to be greased to keep the mixture from sticking. The layer should be thin, as it is intended to cook in a shorter time than the above. All sorts of additions in the way of seasoning may be added, and other kinds of meat may be so prepared. With care in the cooking, these hashes are very nice ; but a fierce heat hardens the meat, and a very indigestible dish is the result. {See also l)itv on Scal- loped Hash.) Another it-ay.—Put two parts of beef and one of potatoes, both chopped, in a pan with a little milk, and stir until hot; then season, and stir in a lump of butter-, and serve in a mound, on toast, with sippets round it. A morsel of fried onion or parsley may bo added. Hash, American, Koast Beef.—Required: some cold beef, chopped, half as much cold chopped potato, and seasoning as below. The meat and potato should be seasoned with salt and pepper, and a little fried onion if approved, then moisten with a little gravy or butter, and put in the frying-pan until hot through, when it may be served at once, or left until the underside has become brown and crisp, then turned out on a hot dish. This admits of great variety in the shape of cooked celery, or mushroom, or other vegetable ; care must be taken to avoid any raw vegetable, even onion, as the hash takes so short a time to heat through. Hash with Eggs.—Required : half a pint of Bbown Sauce, a pound of cold meat (or meat with game), five eggs, some croutons, seasoning as under. Cost, about 2s. Boil the sauce, add pepper, and a little store sauce or ketchup, with a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, or a little mushroom powder if the flavour is preferred ; put in the sliced meat, pre- pared in the usual way, and leave to become well flavoured. Fry some- round croutons, and trim the edges of the eggs (fried or poached); put one on each crouton. Dish the meat, lay an egg on the top, and one at each end and each side ; put a pinch of coralline pepper on each egg yolk, and servo hot. This looks very tempting, and tastes us well as it looks. Hash, the Nabob's. — Re- quired: two pounds of cold mutton,518 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. half a pound of lean ham, half a pound of onions, two fresh limes, a pint of Brown Sauce, a tablespoonful of Nabob Pickles, and seasoning as below, boiled rice, and two ounces of sultana raisins. Cost, about 2s. 9d. Put on a plate a teaspoonful of lemon juice, the same of sherry, the pickles and raisins; the latter should bo picked, and chopped a little; add the rind of half a lemon, grated, and a little white pepper; mix well, and cover until required. Peel the onions, cut them in rings, fry them a little, then put them in the sauce, with the seasoning- from the plate, and cook until tender. Cut the ham in strips, and fry in the fat from the onions; then put it in the sauce with the cold meat, and leave covered for half an hour; it must barely simmer. Boil the rice as for curry, but use stock instead of water; wipe the limes, but do not peel them ; cut them in slices, and then in strips. Put the meat and sauce on a dish, with the rice round it, and sprinkle it with the strips of lime, and a dust of coralline pepper. Ham of good quality must be used for this; it must not be hard or salt, or the dish will be quite spoiled. It is very good if care be taken. Note.—If “Nabob Pickles” are not at hand, any similar sort may be used. Hash, Norman. — Required : cold meat, onions, stock, and seasoning, gravy, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Peel a dozen and a half of button onions, fry them a rich brown in hot butter, add an ounce of flour, brown well, and then stir in half a pint of stock from the bones of the joint; the ' meat may be beef or mutton ; when it boils up put in a gill of gravy, skim well, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and Lemon Pickle, with a few drops of mushroom ketchup. Have ready about a pound and a quarter of meat, in nice even slices; this is a superior dish, and a little trouble is necessary; all skin and gristle must be removed: lay it in the sauce, and cover up for half an hour that it may become impregnated with the flavours. Then re-heat, and serve with a garnish of Pickled Mushrooms, or sliced lemons, and send vegetables to table in a separate dish. For a cheaper hash, the gravy can be left out; a dash of French vinegar taking its place, and more stock being used to make up the deficiency ; but for the first-named recipe, if no gravy is at hand, a little extract of meat or glaze should be used for the purpose. Hash, Nursery.—Required : a pound of cooked mutton or lamb, half a pound each of onions, potatoes and celery, a pint of Rice Sauce, and some seasoning. Cost, about Is. -Id. to Is. 6d. Parboil the onions and potatoes: cut them up, slice them into a stewpan with the celery, add a little salt and pepper, and some weak stock (liquor from boiled meat, &c.), and cook until the celery is soft, and the potatoes broken up. In a separate saucepan heat the cut up meat in the rice sauce; then mix the contents of the two pans. This is a very good and nourishing meal for children. It is more sub- stantial if some small dumplings are served with it. Note.—The same kind of hash for “ children of older growth,” is excellent with a small proportion of chopped capers, and some of their vinegar stirred in ; or caper sauce from boiled meat can be used, the rice sauce being reduced in proportion. Hash, Save-all. — Required : meat, vegetables, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. For this, which is very good and economical, take half a dozen cooked potatoes; slice them a sixth of an inch or so in thickness, add a good- sized Spanish onion, boiled or baked, and sliced similarly. A slice or two of broiled or fried bacon should be cut in small pieces. Then take from twelve ounces to a pound of roast veal; it often happens that the centre of a large fillet is somewhat underdone :519 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. that is the part to choose. Slico it neatly. Make a pint of gravy of the usual kind for plain hashes (see page 79), add the above ingredients, together ■with seasoning to taste, salt and bacon excepted. Cover, and stew as softly as possible for an hour, then put in salt and a tablespoonful or two of grated cheese-—it does not matter what kind, so that it is dry enough to grate and of good flavour. After this the mixture should not boil again. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once with cut lemon and the bacon. Another way.—Use cooked celery in place of onion, and leave out part of the potatoes, adding some sort of cooked cereal to make up. A tomato can be used as well as the other vege- tables if liked, and the cheese may be reduced in quantity to suit the taste, but as first given the hash is ex- cellent. -Vote.—Supposing the meat to be thoroughly cooked, heat the other ingredients first, then put in the meat for a short time only. Hot Pot —-Sec Tripe and Cow Heel Hot Pot and Tinned Rabbit Hot Pot. Hotch Potch, Ox Tail.—Take for this a tinned ox tail. The jelly should be melted, and added to half a pint or so of plain brown stock, nicely flavoured and thickened as for stews. The pieces of tail should be put in this to heat. They want careful treatment, being generally somewhat “ raggy ” looking. The adjuncts, in the shape of vegetables, must depend upon cir- cumstances ; a Puree of Carrots, or dried or fresh Green Peas may bo used; it should be spread on a dish ready for serving, and the tail and gravy put high on the top. The surface is then to be covered with more vege- tables, either a puree, or mixed vegetables as for a haricot (see recipes for Mutton, Haricot) ; or any cold carrots, onions, turnips, potatoes, &c., can be sliced and fried, and used for the purpose. Ox cheek is excellent in the same form. Cost, about Is. 3d., but varies with tho adjuncts. (See Polpetti, Italian.) Italian Polpetti. — See Pol- petti, Italian. Jersey Fish Curry.—Re- quired : two ounces each of Hour and butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, a pinch of nutmeg and lemon rind grated, a pint of milk, or half fish stock, a pound and a half of any white fish (mixed sorts answer), a teaspoonful each of mild curry paste and powder, a tablespoonful of chopped onion, a little powdered bay leaf, and the juice of half a lemon. Cost, about Is. 4d. with fish at fid. per pound. Melt the butter, fry the flour in it to a straw colour, add milk and boil up. Flake the cold fish, and brown in a little hot fat. It should first bo spread with the curry paste. The onion is to be fried in the same fat, then drained and put in the sauce with the seasoning and fish, and left for half an hour just off the boil. Cut lemons and rice should be put round the dish. Curried or plainly-boiled rice is suitable. The Onion is some- times omitted. White meat may be used; then the curry stuffs should be increased a little. A tamarind maybe cooked in the sauce to give slight piquancy. The curry powder may be blended with the sauce, or the onions can be dredged with it before frying. Kidney with Vegetables.— Required: kidney, vegetables, and gravy as below. Cost, variable. Take some of the kidney from a cooked loin of veal, mince it with a mushroom or two in proportion to the quantity of kidney, pass it through a mincer, ar.d moisten with any gravy left over from the joint, enough to make a thick mince; fry some tender vegetable marrow in little boat shapes (see Vegk- tarles), and fill.them with the mince. Serve hot for breakfast. Another way.—l’ut a piece of toast or fried bread on a dish, pour tho520 tfNivliiiSAL cookfcitV book. kidney mince over, and put potatoes in any approved way round the dish. Another way.—Supposing some beef kidney that has been stewed to be handy, cut it in thin slices or mince it, with half its weight of cooked bacon, heat altogether in some of the gravy, and flavour to taste. Any kind of vegetables may be used to form a border; a carrot puree is very nice, or any green puree, or plainly-boiled vegetable will answer. Either should be garnished with the little rounds of artichoke that were cut from the rings. These are tasty little snacks, which may be greatly varied. King’s Rings.—This is a very appetising little dish ; it can be varied a good deal, as the recipe is very sug- gestive of many others, the idea being to serve the meat in rings of some sort of vegetable. Supposing a small quantity of minced veal to be handy, with perhaps a cooked carrot, cut the latter into rings, stamp out the in- terior, then lay the rings flat in a buttered saute pan, and heat them in a little pale stock. Drain, and fill with the white mince, first arranging the rings on the dish for serving, a crous- tade, or some rice, or a bed of some cooked vegetable being first placed on it, otherwise it would have a flat appearance. If a cucumber can be cooked and sliced, and the rings placed alternately with the carrot, the effect will be still nicer. The mince should be put in from a bag with a pipe, and a little garnish used on each little pilo: a morsel of the outside skin of a picklod walnut, alternated with parsley or a bit of red or green chilli, looks nice. Round the rings pour some nice sauce of the kind used for the meat; then make some ring- shaped croutons, and put them over- lapping to form a border round the dish. If liked, the interior of the vegetables used for the rings can be sieved and mixed with the sauce. If chicken mince be used, the garnish may be more elaborate—olives, Jittle egg balls, &o. Lambs’ Tongues. -See Tinned Tongues. Meat Croquettes. —These are very plain and quickly made. Re- quired : equal weights of cold meat and mashed potatoes, a cooked onion to half a pound of each of the foregoing, also a little salt and pepper, and an egg with a little milk. Cost, about Is. per dozen. Chop the meat small, pass the pota- toes through a sieve, while hot if possible, add the meat and seasoning, and the yolk of the egg ; it should bo first well beaten. If the potatoes are dry and mealy a tablospoonful of milk or a little melted dripping may be added; if they are not mealy this is better omitted. Then make them into little balls the size, say, of a large walnut, or a trifle larger, then fry them in hot fat to cover them, or bake them in a quick oven. In the latter case, put them on a greased tin, and brush them over with a small quantity of liquid fat. Drain before dishing. Another way.—Omit half the pota- toes, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs to each half pound of meat, and a spoonful or two of gravy well thickened. To either of these herbs may be added; the onion may be fried or boiled, and should be chopped small; a fried one makes the dish more savoury. In place of the onion and gravy a spoonful of onion sauce may be used. Mixed meats can bo used. Meat Gateau.—Required: twelve ounces of cold meat, fat and lean, free from gristle, and cut up small; season- ing, fat, crumbs, gravy, and two eggs. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. Melt an ounce or so of dripping, fry in it a chopped onion, stir in a table- spoonful of flour, brown it, add nearly a gill of plain stock or gravy from a joint, with browning, seasoning, and a little sauce or ketchup to taste; then stir in the meat. When cool beat in the eggs very thoroughly, with a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs. Take a plain cake tin, rather shallow, greasoUoLt) MEAT AND SC It A P COOKEUV. 621 aud coat it thickly with crumbs, hut shake out all the loose ones. Put in the mixture, shake a few more crumbs over, cover with a bit of grca-ei paper, and bake in a moderate oven from thirty to fifty minutes, according to depth of tin. Turn out and pour gravy round. For dishes of this sort always have more crumbs in reserve, in case any stick to the bottom of the tin in baking; then just sprinkle a few more on the top. .Raspings are, of course, better than crumbs, being already browned. If crumbs are used they must be browned first. Any trimmings of game—just the scrapings of the bones—are a wonder- ful improvement to this. Mushrooms instead of onion make a pleasant variety. Meat in Savoury Jelly.— This is a good dish for breakfast in summer time. Required : a pound of cooked meat—mixed sorts if liked— two eggs, and two ounces of cooked ham or bacon; stock, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. First heat the stock—about half a pint—add a teaspoonful each of onion vinegar, tarragon vinegar, and mush- room ketchup or walnut ketchup; strain it a few times through muslin, and leave to cool, then test a little ; if firm nothing is wanted, if not stiff enough add a little dissolved gelatine —a quarter of an ounce to half an ounce may be wanted. Boil the eggs hard and slice them, dip the slices in warm butter, then in chopped parsley, and a little pepper and nutmeg. Take a plain mould, put in the eggs, meat in dice, and the bacon in strips loosely ; then pour in the stock, and when cold turn out. Braised meat makes the best mould ; any other can he used, but it must he tender. Meat Moley.—A moley is a dish that is very well known and much liked in all curry-eating countries; the recipe we give is for moley as prepared in Ceylon. The first consideration is the sauce; the foundation is plain or rich stock, or milk, according to the degree of richness desired and the meat to be used. Put half a pint of either in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, the same of finely- chopped ham, a large onion, sliced thinly, a bay leaf, a pinch of cayenne, a saltspoonful of saffron powder,a pinch of salt, two or three cloves, and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Let the whole cook for some time; it should be kept at a gentle simmer; then put in any nice pieces of cold meat of any sort (pork excepted); veal may bo mixed with rabbit or fowl, but beef and mutton are better used singly. Mash up a large mealy potato with a spoon- ful or two of cream, and add this also to thicken the sauce; squeeze in a little lemon juice before sending to table, and serve some mashed potatoes browned in a mould and turned out (see Potatoes) on a separate dish. Cost variable. Note.—From eight to twelve ounces of meat may be used for the above quantity of sauce. The potato for the thickening should be baked in its skin ; a watery potato would spoil the dish. Meat Pyramid.—This is a tasty and economical dish, very good for supper or any other meal. Required : two pounds of potatoes, four eggs, half a pound of cold beef, underdone, salt and pepper, and a few drops of anchovy, two ounces of beef dripping or butter, and a little gravy. Cost, about Is. Bake the potatoes in their skins, turn them out, and mash while hot with the seasoning and dripping; the latter should be wanned. Beat hard for some minutes, this makes a great difference to the dish ; then add the yolks of the eggs, two only; beat again, and sot by while the meat is minced and mixed with the gravy, which must be rather thick and nicely seasoned. Boil the other two eggs hard, cut them up, and add them to tho meat. Now take a plate, cover tho bottom with potato, then put a layer of meat, making it smallor than the layer of potato ; goon until the whole is used up, and bring522 universal cookery book. it to a point, having potato at the top. Now take a large fork, and mark all over, drawing the fork from base to point to give a ridged appearance ; dredge with crumbs, and bake in a uiek oven until golden brown. The ish is much lighter if the whites of the eggs are beaten to a froth, and stirred into the potatoes last thing, but if wanted for any other purpose they can be omitted. Meat Rissoles, German.— Required: four ounces of bacon in squares, an egg, six ounces of minced meat, any sort, the same weight of stale bread, a tablespoonful of chopped chives (or shalots), nearly as much parsley, salt and pepper, and a pinch of spice. Cost, about Is. First fry the bacon a nice brown; stir in the chives and seasoning. Then add the meat, take from the fire and add the bread, which has been soaked in broth and squeezed dry, then sieved, or beaten with a fork. Leave this to cool, then mould it into the size and shape of eggs; drop them into boiling- stock or broth, and cook for ten minutes or so, then serve with a nice gravy. Underdono meat is suitable for these. Thyme and marjoram are used as seasoning sometimes, in addition to the other ingredients. Another way. — Use fully-dressed moat, and soak the bread in brown gravy, just enough to moisten. Beat it up well, and proceed as above directed; then, after moulding the i issoles, instead of boiling them, fry them a good brown, and serve with a piquant gravy and some sweet pickles, with Tomato Puree. Meat Rolls.—Required : meat and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. per pound inclusive. This is a useful and tasty method of re-heating any meat which is underdone; it will be found tender; the cooking process not having the hardening effect so often produced when care is not taken. Supposing some meat at hand, from which a dozen slices, about two inches by three can be cut; or for convenience the size may be greater or less. Cut anv gristle from them, and spread them with a little seasoning of bread-crumbs, soaked in stock and squeezed, pepper and herbs, salt in moderation. Roll them up, and tie or skewer them; brown them in a little hot fat, turning them quickly, then drain. Lay them in a clean, cold stewpan; sprinkle them with a spoonful of flavoured vinegar of any sort preferred; pour over them enough tomato puree, diluted with weak stock, just to cover; add a little vinegar, a bit of sugar, pepper to taste, a chopped onion, some herbs if the meat be veal or mutton (for beef, some brown sauce may be used, or ketchup if liked), and any bits of cooked vegetables, finely chopped. Bring very gently just to simmering point, at which leave it for half an hour. Take the meat up on a dish, thicken the sauce a little, and boil it up, then pour it over, or round the meat. Mince, with Oyster Sauce. — Required: half a pound of cold mutton or veal, an ounce of bacon, bread-crumbs, cayenne and nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, a gill of Oyster Sauce, a fow ounces of boiled rice, some butter, and anchovy essence. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. Prepare a flat dish by buttering and crumbing; sprinkle with the seasoning; mix the minced meat and bacon with the sauce; spread this over the rice, which should be put in a thin lnyer on the crumbs. Add more rice, then crumbs, with a few bits of butter. Brown in the oven. It takes but a short time, the mince being added hot, and is a tasty dish for any meal. Any' sort of poultry may be used, or white fish. A few sprigs of fried parsley or some little croutons improve the appearance of the dish. Another way.—This is brown. Use- beef, with nice brown sauce, to which a few oysters and their liquor, with the usual seasonings, should be added. Should tinned oysters be used, reduceCOLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 523 the liquor by quick boiling, and rub the oysters through a sieve. Moley.—See under Meat (page 521). Mould of Meat and Maca- roni.— Required: macaroni, and a mince as below. Cost, variable. This is a very nice-looking dish, and while almost as effective as if made of macaroni used in honeycomb style {see Gaulishes), it is much more quickly prepared. Take a plain pudding basin, one of the modern shapes, rather high, and tapering at the bottom, or use a tin mould of the same style ; grease it well, and coat it with macaroni, which must be boiled until soft enough to twist, but not enough to break; it must be firm enough to handle. Start from the centre of the bottom, and go on winding, joining the ends neatly, until the macaroni reaches the top edge of the basin. Next put a lining, bottom and sides, of forcemeat or sausage meat, half an inch thick, being careful not to displace the macaroni. Then fill up with a mince of any sort —meat, poultry, game, or fish : either should be thick, and a beaten egg, one to each half pint, added. We aro referring only to minces of the usual sort, mixed with some sort of thick sauce, and reference to the various dishes of mince will show how many nice savouries may he evolved from this one recipe, by just changing the “ filling.” On the top, more sausage meat is to be put, and the mould covered and steamed in the usual way. A pint mould will take an hour. A little sauce or gravy should be poured round it. Mutton and Oyster Cakes. — Required: twelve ounces of fat and lean mutton, from the undercut of a cooked shoulder is nice ; a gill of oyster s nice, a pinch of salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and lemon peel, two eggs, and some bread-crumbs. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Make the sauce, add the meat— put through a mincer—while hot; season, beat in the yolks of the eggs off the fire, and set by to cool. Then form into little cakes {see Fish Cakes) ; brush over with the beaten whites, and roll in the crumbs ; fry in the usual way, and serve with some oyster sauce if for dinner or supper: without sauce if for breakfast. The mixture will cool more quickly if spread out on a flat dish. When making up into cakes a few bread- crumbs may be used; they should be sprinkled on the board, but the cakes will be nicer if kept as moist as they can be, to handle them conveniently. For cheaper cakes, add half the bulk of the meat, &c., in mashed potatoes ; they need not be egged before frying, but may be fried as they are, or first rolled in crushed vermicelli. Tinned oysters do for the sauce for these, all the nicer it should be re- membered, if the oysters are rubbed through a coarse wire sieve. Mutton Boulettes. — Re- quired : a pound of cold meat, half a pint of stock, No. 4, half an ounce of gelatine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper, a teaspoon- ful of corn-flour, the same of browned flour, and a tablespoonful of cooked macaroni; eggs and bread-crumbs. Cost, about Is. 3d. Make a gravy by boiling the stock, corn-flour, browned flour, and season- ing for a few minutes; stir in the gelatine, previously soaked (unless sheet gelatine be used; that needs no soaking) ; when dissolved, add the minced meat; take from the fire, stir in the minced macaroni, then pour the mixture into little cups or patty pans to set. Either should bo round at the bottom, like an egg cup. When firm, turn out, and roll in fino flour, then coat them with beaten egg and bread-crumbs; let them stand awhile,and give a second coaling: the crumbs must bo very firm. Lay them in a frying basket,plunge into hot fat, and in a few seconds take them up ; dish on a lace paper or serviette on a hot dish, and put fried parsley in the centre. These nre very good, becauseUaNIVERSAL COOKERY liOOlt. 524 moist when out; for this reason they need, care in the frying. If any bits of moat, cow heel, calf’s foot, &c., can be mixed with the mutton, less gelatine is wanted for the gravy. If time is short, instead of pouring into cups to set, use the mixture as soon as cool enough, then some cooked rice, or mashed potatoes, or bread-crumbs must be added to “bind” it, together with an egg. The boulettes are in that case stiffer, and not so nice. A mushroom chopped and fried, added, makes them much more savoury. Mutton Croquettes, Plain. Required : meat, stock, seasoning, egg, and bread. Cost, about Is. per dozen. Take a pound of cold mutton with a fair share of fat, or if it is very lean, add a little cooked ham or bacon fat; chop it or put through a mincer. Chop a couplo of shalots or a small onion, and fry brown in hot dripping ; then add rather more than half an ounce of flour ; brown it well, add by degrees a gill of plain stock, as No. 1 or 2 ; stir to the boil, season with salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; then tako from the fire, add some chopped parsley and the meat, and turn out on a plate to cool. Then make into little balls, and brush with beaten egg; cover well with bread- crumbs. Use a frying basket, and fry in hot fat. They take but a few seconds. By using a mushroom and a little ketchup, in place of the onion and parsley, another variety is obtained. Mutton Croquettes (Sa- voury).—Required : four ounces of cookea mutton, half a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, two ounces of mutton kidney, and three ounces each of ham and tongue, cooked, panada and season- ing. Cost, about Is. Mince the meat, the kidney should first be grilled or broiled, and left to cool; if a machine is not handy it must be pounded, but if it can be assod twice through a mincer it will o fine enough. Then add salt, pepper, and anchovy, and the panada, made by frying an ounce each of flour and butter until brown, and adding a gill of brown stock. Stir the whole, and leave to cool, then form into little cones, about a dozen; brush them with beaten egg, and coat with crumbs; fry as usual, and stick bits of parsley-stalk in the thin end of each. Dish in a circle, stalk end up, and fill the centre with fried parsley. Another icay.—-Put each cone on a crouton, first spreading it with mush- room, or other nice puree; or put them on sliced, cooked tomatoes, seasoned, aud spread with a little brown sauce, seasoned with anchovy essence. Re- member to cook the panada well, by boiling it for a minute before the meat goes in, but not for a moment after. If not boiled enough, the croquettes often break in the frying, particularly when made cone-shaped. If not con- venient to add as much tongue and ham, increase the mutton : the season- ing must then be increased slightly. Mutton Cutlets A, la Game. —Required: six ounces of cooked mutton, two ounces of ham, three ounces of boiled rice, an ounce of bread-crumbs, half a glass of port, sweet herbs, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. Mince the mutton and ham (the latter may bo from boiled or baked ham); chop and fry a shalot with a good pinch of powdered herbs: add the rice, and the crumbs soaked in the wine, with half a gill of brown sauce; season with salt and pep- per, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered cloves. Stir and set aside, then shape on a board into small oval cutlets. Brush them with beaten egg, and roll them in crushed vermicelli; then fry brown. Dish in a ring, and fill up with fried parsley. Or divide the mass by means of a cutlet cutter, after spreading on a flat dish until quite cold. A small quantity of brown sauce, flavoured with currant or tomato jolly, may be served with these. Venison can bo used up in the same way. If required in a hurry, theseCOI.D MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 52o should bo made stiller, by adding a little panada ; but they are nicer soft, if plenty of time can bo allowed for the setting. Mutton, Hashed, Plain.— Hashed mutton is so persistently avoided by some people, if they can get anything else, that it is quite worth while to take a little trouble to make it look, as well as taste, good; and this is very easy. (See the recipes under Beef as to the preparation of the meat.) Make a nice gravy (see page 79), and if it is preferred thick, some roux can be added, though in the opinion of many cooks corn-flour is more suitable for mutton ; the gravy should be a nice brown, and of good consistence, but if com-tiour be used it will not be thick-looking, as when roux or browned flour is used; these minor points are, however, a matter of taste. By way of garnish we strongly advise little croutons instead of the usual sippets of toast; the cost is very little more and the dish is considerably improved. Pickled walnuts are often served round a dish of hashed mutton ; they should be put between two saucers in the oven to heat, and drive off the extreme acidity. Or a plain Potato Bordek may be put round the meat. Other pickles can be used. Cost of a dish from a pound of meat, about Is. 3d. Mutton, Hashed, Rich. (See remarks under Beef.)—Use any suit- able sauce or gravy for the foundation, and garnish nicely with croutons and anything else preferred. Mushrooms are very suitable. The gravy should then be flavoured with mushroom powder or ketchup. Put a nice mush- room on the top of the hash, for snperior dishes, with a hatelet skewer through it; or use a good-sized fancy crouton in the same way. Tho mush- rooms should be nicely glazed. In seasoning hashes with store sauces or ketchups, use the best qualities only, and be careful not to overdo it. Worcester, Harvey, and many other sorts of sauce are excellent in a way; tho thing to avoid is to overpower every other flavour with that of the sauce, and this, as everybody knows, is frequently done. What is wanted is a blended flavour, and it is a very easy matter to avoid monotony. Cost of a dish from a pound of meat, about Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. Mutton, Hashed in Tomato Sauce.—Required : a pound and a half of lean mutton, a pint of canned tomatoes, measured with their liquor, gravy and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s., exclusive of any garnish. Prepare the slices of meat in tho ordinary way, and set them aside, covered. Put the tomatoes in a pan, with any bits of skin and gristle from the meat, a little sugar, browning, a few peppercorns, a couple of cloves, a sliced onion, and. a little salt. Cover, and stew down until nicely flavoured, and the onion tender, then rub through a sieve or colander, and put back in the pan, with any gravy from tho joint, or a little stock, with thickening to taste: this may he corn-flour, browned flour or roux. Lay in tho moat, and servo hot in twenty minutes. This is very good just as it is, but it may bo improved in several waj'S : some sliced baked tomatoes, cooked, with sliced onions, may be put about the edge of the dish, or some fried potatoes may be used; croutons, with or without eggs are also suitable, so is a puree of haricots, or if French beans are in season, a border of them, plainly boiled, should be used in preference. Another way. — Make the sauce as above, or use that given under hot sauces. Garnish the dish with poached eggs laid on little beds of spinach, and stick croutons in between them. Mutton, Minced. — Use tho samo ingredients as for Hashes, and for mincing tho meat, follow the direc- tions given under Beef, Minced. For good dishes of this class, a little claret gives a “ tone.” Brown Sauce forms a good foundation, or half brown sauce and half stock may bo used. Mince should never bo watery; i.c.526 UNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK. when put on the dish the gTavy and meat should not separate. The richest minces are served in entree dishes; for every-day occasions, a vegetable or other deep dish is betterthan a flat meat dish, as the mince will keep hotter. __ Mutton with Rice and 3aush»g?eg.—Required: a mince from it jiflufadof cooked mutton, half a pound 6f sausage meat, rice and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. Follow the directions for hashing or mincing mutton by either of the plain methods, for which see recipes. Make the sausage meat into little halls, and fry them for a minute or two, then drain, find put them into the gravy to simmer for ten minutes before the meat is added. Veal Sausage Meat is the nicest for these, and they are a great improvement to dishes of mutton of many kinds. About a quarter of a pound of rice may be boiled as for curry, or Saffron Rice is very good with this dish.. This should be ready by the time the meat is, round which it should be dished. Savoury dishes of rice may also be used. (Sec Rice.) Another dish is made by mixing two or three ounces of lean, cooked ham, in amongst the mutton, then the little balls, or small sausages, should he placed on the rice by way of garnish. Ox Foot, with Ouious and Cheese.—Required : about half an ox foot, the same weight of Spanish onions, cheese, &c., as below. Cost, about 7d., exclusive of sauce. The foot must be well cookod, free from bone, and cut into neat pieces. Slice and fry the onions, and lay them in a greased dish, coated with bread-crumbs, alternately with the ox foot. Put some thin slices of bread on the top. Each layer should be seasoned with salt and pepper, and a little grated cheese, and be moistened with stock from the hones of the foot. The broad should be moistened with oiled butter, and the dish set in the oven until crisp and hot through. Serve plain Cheese Sauce with this, or a herb sauce. Ox Foot, with Peas and Cheese.—Prepare the dish as above, but use cooked peas (green, or split yellow as preferred) in place of onions ; or haricots or lentils, cooked and sieved, may be substituted. The stock for moistening should be made piquant in flavour. Finish off as directed above, and send the same sauce to table, or a sharp sauce goes very well with this dish. (See Peas Pudding.) Polpetti, Italian.—The founda- tion of this is cooked meat, any sort; for half a pound, which should bo free from fat, and minced small, allow two or three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, the same weight of ham and tongue, or bacon will do instead of ham, and a gill of Italian sauce, brown or white, according to the nature of the meat (see recipes under Hot' Sauces). To this, something should' be added to give piquancy, or to. heighten the flavour, first stirring the- foregoing ingredients together over the fire until hot. A little rich force- meat, cooked, or the remnants of one of the savoury pates sold in tins, or some cooked liver puree ; just a tablespoon- ful or so of either is sufficient. Then spread the paste on a flat dish to form a quarter-inch layer. When cold, cut out with a small round tin cutter, then egg and crumb the cakes, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Lard is said to bo the correct frying medium for these : clarified fat of the usual sort answers as well—in our opinion, better. The remnants left after cutting can bo pressed together and cutout as before, until all be used up. Cost, variable. Pork d, la Blanquette.—Re- quired : meat, sauce, ana seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of the vegetable garnish. See the recipe for Rice Sauce, and make half a pint for each pound of meat to be used. Cut the meat into neat slices; the nicest part for this dish is the kidney end of a loin that has been stuffed with a mild sago and onion stuffing. Let it heat through in the sauce; all fat must be takenCOLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 527 from the meat, and if it contains no stuffing, season the meat with sage, or thyme and parsley. When hot through, beat in the yolk of a raw egg for half a pint of sauce, with a morsel of made mustard and hot chutney. Serve hot, and put Potato Chips or Tomato Chips round the dish. A small quantity of nicely-cooked pig’s liver may be minced and added to the sauce if liked. Bread sauce can be used in the same way; but for re-heating pork, the ordinary white sauces, of a richer kind, are not so suitable as they are for plainer sorts of meat. Those who are able to indulge in them, may, however, try those given for poultry, veal, &c.; white onion sauce is very good, so is celery; the yolks of one or two eggs being added if the dish is served a la blanquette. Without the eggs, serve it simply as “ pork in sauce.” Pork in Apple, Curry, or Digestive Sauce.—Required : for each pound of cold pork, about a pint of either of the above sauces, and other ingredients as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. inclusive. The meat may he sliced or minced, and should be pretty free from fat, or the dish is likely to be too rich. If any gravy he left over, supposing a roast, heat it, and let the meat warm through in it; then, when the sauce is ready, Lake the meat from the gravy, and let it remain in the sauce until well flavoured. Have a hot dish, with a border of any suitable vegetable of a green kind, or a puree of peas, or some curried rice for a change; put in the meat, and send gravy, if liked, to table separately. For a cheaper dish, put the peas, or what else may be used, in a thick layer on the dish, then one of meat and sauce, a thin layer only. Go on until all 1re used. If this be covered and sot over hot water for a short time, the vegetable will become well flavoured, and a little meat goes a long way. Pork and Cod-fish, Ameri- can Ragout of. -Required : for the foundation, equal weights, say a pound each, of pork and cod-fish; either pickled pork with fresh fish, or fresh pork with salt fish, seasoning, cracker crumbs, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. without salad. Cut the pork in small slices, and flako the fish, which should be first boiled or steamed. Grease a dish, and put in pounded crackers to form a lining; make a well-seasoned sauce, about a pint, using stock for the foundation, and seasoning with salt, cayenne, mace, mixed herbs, mustard, and grated lemon peel. Mix the flaked fish with this, and heat the whole. Fry the pork a little, season with the same materials used in the sauce, adding a little flavoured vinegar to taste. Put these materials in alternate layers in the dish, haring fish and sauce top and bottom; each layer of pork is to be dredged with crumbs. Have plenty of crumbs at the top; moisten with butter, then brown in a quick oven. Send to table with salad and a dish of sweet pickles. Note.—"When onions are liked, pound one, and add a teaspoonful of the juice to the pork, or some fried onions may be mixed with the rest. For a plainer dish, frying the pork may be omitted; reheating in a little gravy well boiled first. Pork Crepinettes.—Required: pork, potato pastry, raw tomatoes or cooked Spanish onions, seasoning, and egg and crumbs. Cost, about 2d. each. Make some plain Potato Pasth y into little rounds ; cut the same number of slices of tomato or onion, and half the number of slices of pork. On half the potato rounds, put a slice of tomato, season with salt and pepper, mustard, or chutney, then add tho meat, and another slice of vegetable seasoned in the same way. Cover with tho rest of tho potato rounds, and press the edges well together, then coat with egg and crumbs and fry brown, or omit the egging for a plain dish. Tho potato rounds should bo rather larger than the rest, that tho edges may be securely fastened.528 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Another way.—Use a mixture of apple sauce and cooked rico next the potato, the pork being placed between. Onion, curry, or chutney sauce, just a little to moisten the meat, may be added for variety. The crepinetto3 may be coated with crushed vermicelli after brushing with milk, then fried; but there is less fear of breaking them when egg i3 used. Pork, A Savoury Mince of. — Required : a pound and a half of roasted meat, nearly a pound of onions, a tablespoonful each of brown vinegar and tarragon vinegar, seasoning and sauce us below. Cost, about Is. Gd. Peel and chop the onions, fry them a good brown, drain the fat from them, and add tho vinegar, a gill of nice gravy from the joint, a pinch of cayenne, a saltspoonful of chopped tarragon, and twice as much chopped sago, with a little French mustard. Cover, and let this reduce to half the quantity. Have the meat ready cut up ; it should be almost free from fat. Put about half a pint of plain stock, thickened with flour, to the onions, &c., and boil gently until tho contents of the pan are cooked; then stir the moat in, season to taste, and leave for a short time for tho moat to become well flavoured. Turn out into the centre of a Potato Bokdeb, or use some other vegetable; a lentil or haricot pur6e, or some peas puree is much liked in many cases, although the latter is more generally sent to table with boiled pork. Pork may be hashed in the same way, and any stuffing from the joint should be served with it; or some can be made and cooked purposely-, as it makes a more 6avoury dish. Rissoles. — See under Meat (page 522). See also Index. Savoury Supper Rolls.—Re- quired : a pound of potatoes, weighed after cooking and peeling, half a pound of cooked moat, two eggs, a teaspoon- ful of chopped parsley, a little thyme, cayenne, salt, popper, and grated lemon peel, and some raspings. Cost, about 10d. The potatoes must be baked in their skins, mashed whilo hot, and seasoned, then mixed with the meat chopped small. Whatever tho meat used, a little ham or bacon improves it. The whole must then be put in a sauce- pan with the yolks of the eggs, and beaten over the fire, then taken off, and set by to cool. Just a minute’s heating will suffice. When firm, take up portions of tho mixture with a tablespoon, and form them into rolls on a floured board; brush them over with beaten white of egg, and lay them on a slightly-greased baking- sheet, then bake brown in a quick oven, and dredge with raspings before serving. Tho rolls may bo flavoured with a tcaspoonful of grated cheese instead of parsley, and white sauce, flavoured similarly, served with them. Fish may- be used up instead of meat, and a fish sauce served with the rolls. If not quite brown enough by tho time they- are sufficiently cooked, make an iron skewer hot, and mark them lightly across in a slanting direction. For a cheap dish, omit the eggs. Scotch Eggs.—-Required : half a dozen hard-boiled eggs, six ounces of cold meat, salt, pepper, store sauce, herbs, flour, stock, butter, crumbs, and a raw egg. Cost, about Is. 2d. This is a favourite way of utilising scraps, and there are many varieties of the dish. Put the chopped meat in a basin (the greater the variety of sorts the better, but a little ham or bacon is always desirable), and season well. Blend an ounce of flour with a gill of any plain stock, boil up, add half an ounce of butter, then mix with the meat, stir and leave to cool. Then brush the hard eggs over with warm butter, dredge with flour, and press the mince on evenly, smoothing with a wet palette-knife. Coat with the raw egg and some crumbs, or crushed ver- micelli, and fry- brown. Serve with or without gravy. Garnish with salad,529 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. fried parsley, or as preferred. Pass tho meat through a mincer if convenient. Scrap Mince (A Vegetarian Savoury). — Required: a large larrot, a small turnip, an onion or two, or some shalots or leeks, a few stalks of celery, a morsel of parsnip (if not objected' to), a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, a tablespoonful of rice or pearl barley that has been boiled until tender, sauce as below. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. The vegetables must all be cooked, and very finely chopped to a perfect pulp, or they may be mashed with a fork, or put through a coarse sieve. After seasoning, add the rice orbarley. If required for use in pies, make up into little balls or cakes ; they may be fried if liked, if first coated with batter or bread-crumbs, and served separately. But supposing the mincemeat to be wanted moist, for the filling of little patty-cases, &c. (for which recipes will be found in later chapters), then a little sauce, either white or brown, should be put in; recipes will be found in Hot Sauces. To make this more nourishing, a little Hahicot PubIse or Peas Pukeb may be mixed in. The exact consistence of the mince can only be determined by the purpose for which it i3 required. It is very cheap and tasty. Scrap Popovers. — Required : mince, tetter, bread crumbs, and sea- soning. Cost, about 6d. per dozen. /Make a mince as in the foregoing recipe, and a batter as for plain Yobk- shire Pudding, but with twice the usual quantity of flour. Then mix together equal measures of mince and batter, blending well. Stir some baking powder in last thing, and bake in deep gTeased patty-pans in a hot oven. Sauce or gravy is an improvement. Any odds and ends of cooked maca- roni or other cereal may go in, and for non-vegetarians, any meat-scraps, the flour in the batter being reduced a little. The remains of any vegetable sauce may replace some of the vegetables. Scrap Toast.—Required : toast, meat, vegetables, sauce, and seasoning. Cost, about 4d. Make a round of buttered toast in the usual way, then prepare a savoury mixture for spreading it; cooked meat and vegetables form the foundation. Supposing some cold boiled mutton to be handy, with a supply of the usual vegetables served with it, and a spoonful or so of caper sauce. Cut the meat very small, and either chop or mash the vegetables; add the sauce, and stir over the fire until hot. Now this, as it is, would be rather insipid, and the seasoning should be liberal and of a piquant kind; a few more capers, or some other pickle, or a little store sauce, with salt and pepper, and a grate of nutmeg are suitable. Pour hot over the toast, and dredge some browned crumbs on the top. Another way.—Equal parts of cooked ham and cold mutton make a good toast; some cooked rice maybe stirred in with, or instead of, tho vegetables. Another ivay. — Take roast meat (beef is excellent), and to each table- spoonful after mincing, add tho same measure of gravy, tomato-pulp, and cooked onions, fried or baked, chopped small. Stir until hot, add salt, a little browning, a few drops of hot sauce, and a morsel of mustard. Spread on the toast and serve hot. The mince should bo half an inch thick. These are very cheap and homely preparations. Better ones are given in a chapter on Savoubies. But even the plainest are very good, and furnish variety, especially as breakfast dishes. Spanish Hash.—Required : a meat hash, chestnuts, and garnish as below. Cost, about 3s. Make a hash of any kind of meat, and, in dishing, make a hollow in tho centre. Supposing two pounds of meat and a pint of sauce to huxe been used in the hash, put in tho hollow a puree of chestnuts, made by stewing a pound, in stock, ns given in a subsequent chapter (w Chestnut530 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Puree, Brown). Then sprinkle the surface of tho pureo with grated bread- crumbs, to form a coating; brush over with butter, and brown with a sala- mander. Have some chestnuts whole (they may be roasted or boiled); peel them, then brush them with glaze, and use them for garnishing the dish; place between each a small cake of sausage meat, fried or boiled, and brushed over with glaze. Serve hot. This is an excellent dish for luncheon. Meat of the dark kind is best suited. If veal is preferred, or any other white meat, as rabbit, &c., use a pale gravy in making the hash, and prepare the puree by the recipe for White Chestnut Puree. Then no crumbs must be used for the surface. Veal sausage meat should be used for the little cakes, which are to bo egged, crumbed, and fried. The chestnuts for the garnish should be boiled and coated with hot white sauce, then sprinkled with chopped parsley or sieved egg-yolk. Steak, Crumbed. —Roquired: steak, seasoning, crumbs, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. per pound. This is an excellent way to re-heat a piece of cooked beef-steak, supposing it to bo tender, thickly cut, and slightly underdone. If about half a pound of meat be handy, cut it into thin slices, straight through; if the steak bo an inch and a half thick, all tho better. Then prepare a seasoning : a pinch of salt, a good pinch of black pepper and cayenne, a few drops of hot sauce, or the liquid portion of some chutney or thick mixed pickles; coat the meat with this, then dip it into liquofied dripping or butter ; flour it a little, and roll it in bread-crumbs; each piece must bo done singly. Lot them lie for a short time, then dip again into butter, and again coat with crumbs. Drop the pieces into plenty of hot fat, and as they become brown and crisp, take thorn up with a small slice, and dish them in a pile. Serve very hot. Any sort of under-done meat, cut in tho same way, can be similarly cooked. Tinned Meat Brawn.—Ro- quired : two pounds of meat—beef, or ox-cheek, or ox-tails—tinned, an ox- foot, half a pound of pickled pork, seasoning and gravy as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. The foot is to be boiled until the bones slip out, then cut up; the pork may be from the belly or head, or feet can be used; this is to be boiled also. The meat (tinned) should be freed from fat. The whole must then be minced and mixed well, then seasoned like brawn of the ordinary sort, and moistened with the jelly of the meat melted in a little more strong stock; a tablespoonful of store sauce or herbal vinegar is a great improvement. Finish off in the usual way, and serve with plain salad. The remains of a calf’s head can bo used up instead of cooking an ox-foot purposely, and bacon answers as well as pork. By some the addition of some hard-boiled eggs in slices is con- sidered an improvement. Tinned Meat, Fried.—Many very nice little dishes for breakfast, or any other meal, may be made by taking the meat from the tin, and cutting it through tho grain into thick pioces, then seasoning them in the ordinary way, or with a “devil” mix- ture ; they should then be dipped in flour, noxt into a thick plain batter, and fried in hot fat to cover. Or they may be rolled in fine crumbs, after seasoning; these must be patted on firmly and evenly, and in an hour’s time a second coating should be given, the meat being first dipped into liquid fat. Or, needless to say, the ordi- nary coating of egg and bread-crumbs renders them nicer still; and as the meat itsolf is so cheap, the expenso is very trifling. Fried potatoes, or other vegetables, and gravy or sauce, cun bo served with the meat, or it can go to table just as it is. In cutting up the meat it is not possible to get the pieces as even in size and shape as when cutting from a joint, owing to tho tendency to crumble: but careCOLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 531 and a sharp knife will do much in this direction. Another way.—Cut up the meat and mix it with its own jelly melted, and more strong stock which will “jelly” when cold. Spread it in a layer, an inch or so thick, on a dish or tin, and leave it until very firm; then cut it into squares or fingers, and finish off as described above. This method can be especially recommended, as, owing to the moist nature of the meat, or rather of the jelly, which when heated becomes liquid, quite a dainty dish at very little cost is obtained. The cook- ing, however, must he carefully per- formed ; the fat must he very hot, and a complete coating of egg and crumbs (better done a second time) must be put on the meat, or failure will result. The stock for this and all similar dishes should be tested, and if not firm when cold some gelatine must be added. It should be well flavoured with salt and black pepper. (See Meat Pies in Pastry.) Tinned Meat, Fried, -with Onions.—Required : meat, bacon, onions, &c. Cost, variable. Fry a pound of onions (see Vege- tables), and put them in little piles round a hot dish, with small slices of fried bacon in between. Prepare the meat in one of the ways given in the foregoing recipe, and pile it in the centre. A little sauce or gravy should be put round the onions. For this, the meat should be flavoured with sage or mixed herbs. Tinned Meat and Marrow 3alls.—Required : four tablespoon- fuls of beef or mutton, half that quan- tity or less of marrow from a cooked beef-bone, salt and pepper, a few drops of anchovy essence, bread crumbs, an egg, and some mashed potatoes. Cost, about 6d. Make a mince of the meat and mar- row, stir in the yolk of the egg and a teaspoonful of good gravy ; then add bread-crumbs to make a soft paste. Prepare some mashed potatoes as directed for Potato Pastky, but in- stead of rolling it out, take up a por- tion with a spoon, hollow it in tho centre with the back of the spoon to hold a teaspoonful of the mince, then close it up and flour it; proceed thus until all are done, then brush the balls over lightly with the beaten white of the egg, and fry them ; or, after flour- ing, pour a little melted dripping over, and bake brown in a quick oven. These can be served separately, or with hashes or stews. Another way.—Add some chopped parsley to the meat instead of the anchovy, and wrap the mixture in thin slices of cooked bacon ; shape into balls and finish them off with potato pastry as above directed. A cold sausage or two, cut up, is an improvement to these. Tinned Meat, Mince.—A dish of this sort is soon prepared, and will be found useful as a plain emergency dish. Supposing some stock in the kitchen, this can be flavoured and thickened nicely ; some desiccated soup is useful for the thickening, as it gives colour and flavour (sec Soups) ; but com-flour or roux is more expeditious. The meat, cut up, right through the fibres, not chopped into a pulp, is then to be added to make a thick mince; all the nicer if a morsel of cooked liver or kidney can be put in, especially if mutton be the meat used. The dish may be garnished with sippets of toast, or the mince poured upon a slice of it; fried bread is superior for the same purposes. Reference to other dishes will show how this may be varied by the aid of store sauce, &c.; and a gar- nish of pickles is suitable. The vege- tables may be accoi-ding to convenience. Poached eggs or, if preferred, fried eggs, can bo laid here and there on tho dish, in which caso a few strips of cooked ham could be cut up, and put in the mince. A bunch of herbs and a little spice are the making of tho stock for dishes of this sort, if time can bo given for the simmering. Fried onions, too, aro valuable, unless it is known that they are disliked.532 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. Tinned Meat, with Oat- meal. — Required: half a pound of tinnod moat, any kind, three ounces of coarse oatmeal, a pint and a half of water, salt and pepper, and herbs, &c., a3 below. Cost, about 6d. Put the oatmeal and water in a deep pie dish, with a pinch each of salt and pepper; add an ounce of fat from the meat, and bake until nearly done, then stir in a good-sized onion, previously sliced and fried, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, or half as much dried sage. Finish the cooking, then stir in the moat, cut up very small; also the jelly, first mixing it with a few drops of browning; then set the dish in a cool part of the oven, or on the hob, and serve when the meat has had time to heat through; about ten minutes will do. A great improvement to the above is the reduction of the oatmeal by an ounce, and the addition of the same weight of sago or tapioca; either gives smoothness, and “ binds ” better than oatmeal alone. An egg may be added with the meat; it should be beaten well with the dissolved jelly. Time altogether, from two to three hours; tho slower the cooking the better the dish, which is very nice, and suitable for children’s dinner. Mince from a joint can be used instead of Australian meat. A plain gravy improves, but is not really necessary. Tinned Meat Pasties. — These are made like tho Cornish Pasties given in Pastry, but the crust is made from potatoes (see Potato Pastry), and a thick mince from Australian meat furnishes the interior. Any sort of cooked vegetables, or some thick sauce, Onion, Celery, &c., should be mixed with it. The pasties should be brushed over with beaten egg, or half egg and half milk, and roughed with a fork, then baked in a brisk oven. Or, with very thin crust, they may be laid in a flying basket, and fried. Garnish with parsley. Excellent pasties are made with tinned rabbit; it is better if mixed with pickled pork or bacon, and wants well seasoning. A mince of mixed meats answers very well ; odds and ends may thus bo used up with advantage ; the pasties may he very tasty, at tho most trifling cost. A cold sausage, together with a slice of boiled suet pudding, may be cut into tiny dice, and put in; the sausage gives a more savoury character, and the pudding renders the mince more substantial. Some stuffing fiom a joint is always a suitable addition, and a morsel of cooked liver is useful. Haricot beans or split peas (either should be mashed), about equal in weight to the meat used, makes a solid pasty, useful for children’s dinners. Cost, about 2d. each. Tinned Meat, Piquant Ragout of.—Required : two pounds of meat, a large apple, two leeks, a teacupful of canned tomatoes, a pint of plain stock, a tablespoonful each of brown vinegar, store sauce, and browned flour, a few peppercorns and a clove or two tied in muslin, together with a pinch of celery seed if handy. A few drops of celery vinegar or essence may be used instead. Cost, about Is. 2d. Melt a little fat from the tin, fry in it the chopped apple, sliced leeks, and the meat; the latter should be taken up and kept hot; the stock is then to be added with tho other ingredients, boiled up, and seasoned with salt to taste, then poured over the meat, which should bo piled up on the dish ready for serving. Note.—Previously boiled leeks arc intended for this : onions may be used in the same way. Instead of the flour, some cooked barley or a little corn-flour may be used for thickening. The fat must be carefully Bkimmed from the gravy, or it will be very un- ' pleasant when it begins to cool. The stock should he added cold ; it throws up the fat better. Some apples or other fruit (see Sweet Pickles) go well with the above. Tinned Meat, Ragout.—Re- quired : four tablespoonfuls of minced meat (tinned beef or mutton), the same measure of boiled bacon and cold veal, cut up similarly, and a couple of533 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. ounces of cooked pipe macaroni in half-inch lengths; other ingredients as undermentioned. Cost, about Is. 2d., exclusive of vegetables. Put the meat in a saucepan, with enough plain white sauce to make a thick mince—or any sauce which is left over from the veal, whether brown or white, will answer. Then put in an oimce of grated cheese, some herbs and seasoning, and beat until the cheese is dissolved. The sauce should boil up before the meat is added, but not after. When the right consistency is attained the yoik of a raw egg is to be added; beat it first and stir it in by degrees; keep the pan near the fire for a few minutes, but do not boil; then squeeze in a little lemon juice. Turn out on a round of toast or fried bread on a hot dish, and put any cooked vegetables round; or serve with eggs, or with sippets of toast only, just as most con- venient. It is a tasty dish for any meal. The precise proportions of the several ingredients are immaterial; the dish ri an illustration of what may be done with scraps, when manipulated with care. In adding the sauce the right con- sistency will be readily determined by taking up a spoonful of the mixture ; it should just drop from the spoon. A little stock or milk should be at hand to thin it if required, either being first heated. To this ragout cold green peas, or sprigs of cauliflower, carrots, &c., may be added if liked. Tinned Meat Sea Hash.—In- quired : meat, vegetables, and pudding as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. This is rather like Sea Pie, but the crust is separately cooked. First make a hash by cutting up a pound of meat in thick pieces and heating it in plain gravy. Put in all sorts of cooked vegetables, equal in bulk to the meat; the greater the variety the better. The mixture should be thick. Put it in a deep, hot dish; then cut up a plain suet pudding, boiled on purpose—a roly-poly is best. The slices should be an inch thick, and put all over the meat, &c., to form a cover. Brush with fat and brown in the oven. This is a good dish in cold weather. Tinned Meat, Slieplierd’s Pie.—Required: two pounds of meat, half-a-pint of canned tomatoes, half-a- pound of fried onions, salt and black pepper, and any herbs preferred, four pounds of potatoes, and some gravy. Cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. First grease a deep baking dish with some of tbo melted fat from the tin. Boil or steam the potatoes, mash and season them (see Potatoes), and put them an inch thick at the bottom and sides of the dish. Then put the onions all over the potato layer. Mince the meat, add the jelly from it, and the tomatoes, with a little more stock or plain gravy of any sort; pile this in the centre of the dish; put the re- mainder of the potatoes thickly on the top; rough the surface with a fork, and bake until well browned in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour. The potatoes will absorb some of the gravy and be very savoury. The dish is an excellent one, consider- ing its small cost. If liked, some pork can be added, and apple sauce used instead of the tomatoes. Tinned ox-tails, ox cheek, kidney, &c., may take the place of the beef or mutton. Either will provide a hot, cheap meal in a short time. Tinned Mutton, Curried. —Required : mutton, rice, and sauce as below. Cost of meat, lOd. to Is. Take a two-pound tin of mutton, remove the fat and melt it in a frying- pan; set the tin in a pan of boiling water until the jelly melts and can be poured off, then cut the meat through the grain into neat pieces, as even in size and as square as the condition of the meat will allow, then make Cuiihy Sauce as directed, using the fat to fry the onions, and the jelly from the meat in place of some of the stock. When the sauce is ready, put in the meat, let it heat, then turn the whole carefully on to tho hot dish, and serveUK I VERSA!, COOKERY BOOK. 534 rice with it. From a pint to a pint and a hall of sauce will be wanted. A few ounces of cooked ham or bacon, or boiled pickled pork, may bo used; it will improve the mutton considerably ; and for a plain family meal, some small dumplings can be sent to table. (See Dumplings.) Another way.—This is for a dry curry, and is very simple. For half a pound of meat fry a small onion in fat; when brown, take it up, sprinkle the meat with a teaspoonful of curry powder, and fry it also ; then put the onion back, add a tablespoonful of apple sauce or tomato sauce, and the jelly from the meat, with seasoning to taste : let the moisture evaporate, then serve the meat with rice. During the heating, stir lightly now and then with a thick wooden skewer. Tinned Mutton, with Eggs and Eeans.—Required : a pound of meat, half a pint of gravy (see Gravy for Hashes, Minces, &c.), a tablespoonful of pickled gherkins or capers, with a little vinegar, five eggs, some French beans and toast. Cost, about Is. 6d. Mince the meat, add it to the gravy with the gherkins, sliced. Cover the bottom of a flat dish with a slice of toast; turn out the mince on it. Then fry or poach the eggs; dish each on a little round of toast; lay one on the top of the mince, and one at each side and the ends of the dish. Boil the beans; pile them between the eggs, round the mince. Put a bit of gherkin on each egg, and servo hot. This is tasty, attractive in appearance, and made nutritious by the addition of the eggs. Broad beans, with chopped parsley, may be used instead of French beans. Tinned Mutton, with Eggs and Carrots.—Make a plain puree of carrots, and fry some small ones whole (see Vegetables). Dish the mince as above ; use the whole carrots in place of the beans, and make a hollow in the centre, into which put the carrot puree; about half a pint will be wanted. This is verv cheap, but is a most tasty dish. Tinned Mutton, Haricot of.—Required: a pound of meat, some stock and vegetables, seasoning, &c. Cost of meat, 5d. or 6d. This mode answers for the utilisation of scraps of previously cooked vege- tables. Supposing carrots, turnips, onions and potatoes to be at hand ; melt the fat from the meat, cut up the meat in squares, and flour it well, season with pepper and herbs, and fry it lightly; then cut up the vegetables, and brown them in the same fat. Make a gravy in the pan, following the directions given for plain hashes, &c., and using the jelly from the meat; half a pint or rather more will be wanted; let it be well seasoned, then pour it over the meat on a dish and put the vegetables round. Another way.—If no cooked vege- tables are available, boil some pur- posely, and then finish them off in the gravy. If not convenient to fry the meat, it can be just heated in the gravy, but is not so tasty. When fried, it must be kept hot until dished, should the gravy not be quite ready ; but it is always better that the gravy should be ready, and the dish served at once. Fried meat is never so nice if it has to stand for any length of time. Tinned Mutton, Rolled and Baked.—Required : a pound of mutton, a quarter of a pound of boiled bacon, the same weight of bread-crumbs, seasoning, gravy, Ac , as below. Cost, about Is. Mince the meat, cutting through the grain, or it will eat stringy; scrape the bacon or cut it small; put it with the meat, add a half teaspoonl'ul each of salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, the crumbs, and a chopped mushroom, or cooked onion. Mix well, and when it has become a paste, shape it with the hand on a floured board. Then brush it over with a little liquid bacon fat, and lay it on a thin sheet of plain Potato Pastry; wrapCOLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. 530 it up, and close the ends: the crust should he just large enough to go once round the roll, and wrap over slightly. Then bake it in a sharp oven to a rich brown. Take half a pint of stock, No. 1 or 2, and add any jelly from the meat; thicken and flavour to taste ; a little onion vinegar or walnut vinegar is suitable • boil it up, and pour round the roll. Tinned Rabbit Hot Pot.— Required: a tin of rabbit, vegetables, pork, &c., as xmder. Cost, about Is. 9d. Take a deep dish, grease it with bacon fat, and dredge the bottom and sides with bread-crumbs. Put a layer of fried onions at the bottom, then one of boiled pork in dice, and season with pepper, salt, and mixed herbs. Then put in the rabbit, cut up, and the bones removed; season in the same way, cover with more pork and onions; about half a pound of pork and a pound of onions should suffice for the dish. If some cooked carrots are handy, chop up a few tablespoonfuls and mix with the rest. Take a gill or so of plain thickened stock, well seasoned, and pour over the rabbit; it should not be thin enough to i-un amongst the crumbs. Cover the top with some browned potatoes cut in halves: all the mateiials are to be used while hot. Set the dish in the oven for ten minutes, then serve. Boiled pork is the nicest; it may be fresh or pickled; but ham or bacon may take its place. Roast pork, with the kidney, will also serve; if cold, heat it in a little gravy or stock, and mix it amongst the rabbit. Another way.—Prepare a cow's, or a couple of pig’s kidneys, by stewing (tee recipes in Joists, &c.) ; when hot and ready for table, tarn a tin of rabbit into the stew-jar, and leave it to get hot through. Then turn on to the dish, and cover with halves of browned potatoes ; or some boiled sliced potatoes can be put in the gravy. This is a good dish; the kidney flavour gives zest to the rabbit. Another way. (See recipes for plain savoury dishes of rice in next chapter.) —Lineapie-dish at the bottom and sides with a layer of the lice while hot; turn in the rabbit, well seasoned ; put a few thin slices of broiled bacon over, then more rice, and, when heated through, sei-ve. Curried rice may be especially recommended, and some hot mixed pickles, minced, and stirred amongst the x-abbit. 1Vote.—A tin of rabbit and one of lambs’ tongues maybe served together in either of these ways. A cooked calf’s foot, or pig’s foot may also be used, or the remnants of calf’s (or othei-J head. "When dishes of this sort are well seasoned, and attention is paid to the gravy, they may be very tasty at exceedingly small cost. (See recipes in Game axd Poultry.) Tinned Tongues, Lambs’, Sheep’s, or Pigs’. —These are generally eaten cold; but they are convertible into tasty hot dishes at small trouble and cost. They are by no means of unifoim quality, and re- gard should be had to their condition, some being rather hard and salt, as if brine-cured, while others are very tender, and almost insipid by reason of their mildness. The first thing is to remove the tongues from the tin, then to heat them by setting them in a dish or basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and let tho water boil round the tongues, or they may bo put in a potato steamer in the same way. Another plan, and a good one if at all hard, is to pour a little plain stock over to moisten in a stewpan, and bring to the boil. The tongues are then ready for the sauce in which they may be put, or it can be poured over or round. A glance at the chapter on Sauces will furnish a good choice, and a number of vegetable purees can be used in the same way ; or a nice plain gravy will be preferred by some, with vegetables served apart. Curry must not be forgotten. Whether tho tongues are heated in curry sauce, or curried rice only is served with them, tho dish is sure to be acceptable to those who like536 UNIVJiKSAb COOKKHY EOOlC curry in any other form. A mixture of tongue and the meat of a cooked calf’s foot, or a portion of head, makes a good curry. Then there are fried onions, mushrooms, &c., very useful as adjuncts on account of their savour. {See recipes under Tinned Meats, from which many hints may be gathered. See also Index, as directions for re- heating large tongues apply equally here.) Tongue, with Eggs and Caper Sauce.—Required: half a pound of tongue, four or five eggs, a gill of caper sauce, half a glass of light wine, a border of rice, macaroni, or potatoes, a few spoonfuls of white sauce, some chopped capers and rod chillies, and a couple of ounces of ham. Cost, about Is. lOd. to 2s. The tongue should be in thin slices from the thick end; put it in a saucepan with the wine and a little stock, and heat through ; take the tongue up, add the sauce, and pour over the tongue; put it in the border, then garnish with the eggs, fried or poached, and pour the white sauce on them; sprinkle with the capers and chillies, and put the ham in little squares about the eggs, or any trimmings of tongue may be so used. A border of spinach, little heaps of cauliflower or sprouts, and many' othor vegetables can bo used, and other meats may be so served. Tongue, Grilled with Fruit. -—Required : a cooked tongue (calf’s, sheep’s, or pig’s), butter, bread, season- ing, apples, tomatoes, and gravy. Cost, about Is. without gravy. Skin and slice the tongue; smear both sides with butter that has been mixed with mustard, pepper, and powdered herbs; dredge with crumbs,and grill or broil until hot through and brown. Fry or grill about half a pound of sliced tomatoes, and fry the same weight of apples, or prepare a little apple sauce, as convenient. Put the tongue-slices in a row on a slice of fried bread, and garnish with the fruit, placed alter- nately'. Guavy X la Diable, or any' other to taste, should be sent to table, and a plain salad eats well with it. Tongue, Grilled with Mush- room. — Required : two tongues, calves’ or sheep’s, seasoning as above, with the addition of mushroom powder, half a pound or more of mushrooms, stuffed or plain (see recipes under Mushrooms), and a little gravy flavoured with mushroom ketchup. Cost, about Is. to Is. 4d. Cook the tongues, and servo as above, placing the mushrooms round. If liked, fried potatoes may be used alternately in little heaps. Any' plain stock, thick- ened and browned, serves for the foundation of the gravy ; or it may bo dispensed with. Mushroom sauce is very nice with tongue cooked thus. Tongue,Rolled,with Onions. —Required : some slices, cut length- wise, from a boiled or braised ox tongue, onions, and sauce as under. Cost, about Is. per pound. Cut, say, half a dozen slices evenly, by taking a portion from the top and bottom, so as to leave a long strip of meat as widens the tongue allows. Chop up the trimmings cut off, and season to taste; some herbs are an improvement; add a morsel of cold bacon, also cut up, with a few bread-crumbs just to make a paste, then lay a bit on each slice, and roll up; fasten with a bit of thread or a little skewer. Make these rolls hot through in a spoonful or two of gravy', as for plain hashes or stews, laying them flat, and pouring the gravy over from time to time with a spoon. Then fry' some onions just as for beefsteak (half a pound to a pound), and lay' part of them on a flat dish for serving; put the rolls on in a row, and the rest of the onions on the top; cover, and set in the oven or on the hot plate for a few minutes, then serve. The gravy may be poured round or served separately'; the latter is the better plan. Tongue, Rolled, witli Sweet Pickles.—Add some chopped sweet pickles to the stuffing, as above, nnd use more as garnish.cold ml At and scrap cook cry. 537 Tripe and Cow Heel Hot Pot.—Required : about a pound of tripe, a cooked cow heel, a quart of onion sauce, half a pound of fried onions, chopped, three pounds of pota- toes, and seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. The meats are to be cut up in conve- nient-sized pieces, and stirred into the onion sauce while the latter is hot. A deep dish with a lid is then to be lined with the potatoes, which are to be boiled until nearly done, then sliced and fried a little. They should form a good bod at the bottom, but a thinner layer does for the sides. Then sprinkle these with stilt and pepper and the chopped onions fried, and if extra zest is liked, a pinch of sage or other herbs. Then put the sauce and meat in the centre, and cover with more potatoes. The dish should be covered and set in a moderate oven, and the cover removed for the potatoes to brown well. Should it be more convenient to use mashed potatoes, the dish should be heated and greased before they are put in ; then, if the oven be sharp, they will brown nicely and be very savoury. This is a dish that can be recommended; it is savoury and cheap. In place of onion sauce, some nice savoury preparation of rice can be used. Bits of macaroni, cooked preferably in stock, may be cut up and mixed with the meat; and calf’s feet, a couple or so, will give a milder dish than if the cow’s foot be used. Rem- nants of head, sheep’s or any other, will come in, the brains being a great improvement. There should not be much fat with the tripe, or it will probably lie too rich for most people. Another way. — Instead of onion sauce, use a larger proportion of fried onions, and put them in layers with the meat, and over the latter sprinkle a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. In place of potatoes, the top layer may consist of slices of fried bread. Tripe, Hashed (German Mode).—Required : a pound of tripe, half a pound of onions, thickening, and seasoning. Cost, about Is. 2d. Cut the boiled tripe in long, narrow strips. Steam the onions, then cut them up small, add bread-crumbs and milk, and a slice of butter, and a good flavouring of chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and marjoram. The mixture should be thick. Cover for a time, then take the marjoram out, and put the tripe in, re-heat, and serve very hot. Tripe, Hashed (Normandy Mode).—Required: two pounds of tripe, a few ounces of cooked bacon, a carrot, an onion, a bunch of herbs, half a gill of weak stock, the same of cider or light wine, with water as required, and seasoning to taste. Cost, about 2s. Cut the tripe in squares, put it in a stewpan, with the vegetables parboiled and sliced, the seasoning, wine and stock, and water to just cover. Cover tightly, simmer until the vegetables are soft, remove the herbs and spices, and thicken the liquor if liked, or leave as it is. Dish, and strain the gravy over. A cow heel is very nice so served, and vinegar or lemon juice may re- place the wine or cider. Veal Boulettes.—This is a very good dish for any meal. Required : two ounces of flour, an ounce of butter, a gill of milk, half a gill of cream, a chopped shalot, six ounces of cold veal, two ounces of cooked ham, salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped button mushrooms, a little lemon rind, grated, eggs and crumbs as below. White stock can replace milk if preferred. Cost, about Is. 2d. Make sauce of the flour, butter, cream, and milk; add the seasonings, and the meat chopped, or passed through a mincer; stir for a minute after tho sauce has boiled ; remove it from the fire, and beat in the yolks of two raw eggs, then set by to cool on a plate. Shape them like sausages, but only half the usual length. When ready to cook, flour tho boulettes, brush them with white of egg, and roll them in crumbs, to which a little nutmeg and cayenne should bo added. Fry in a basket, and dish crosswise on a square538 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. of fried, bread, with fried parsley and cut lemon as garnish. Another way,—Omit the mushrooms in the mixture, and take out the shalot after it has boiled up in the milk. Add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan or other cheese, and fry as above. Serve with Cheese Sauce or Cream Sauce. These may be made some hours before- hand ; they are better for standing. Veal, Fried, with Cabbage.— Required : veal, cabbage, bread, sauce, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, if a pound of meat be used, about Is. 9d. This is rather like the well-known dish called “ bubble and squeak.” Any veal not thoroughly done, may be re- heated very successfully in this way. The moat is to be cut in slices, then into fingers, seasoned with pepper and mixed herbs, dressed with flour, and fried in a small quantity of hot dripping, by the “dry frying” pro- cess ; it will take but a few minutes. Some boiled cabbage (spinach answers just as well) should then be fried, also some bread, the size of the pieces of meat; or, if more convenient, toast will answer. Arrange on a dish, the meat on tho bread, the vegetables round. Before serving, pour a little piquant sauce or brown caper sauce over tho cabbage, but leave the meat dry. Or send the sauce to table, and pour a small quantity of hot Tomato Butter or (Tomato PurEe along the cabbage border. Another way.—After the cabbago is boiled, it may be pressed dry, and used for lining the bottom and sides of a plain mould. The fried meat, with a little thick sauce is then put in, and more cabbage on the top, and made quite level. The mould is then put in the oven to heat, and the contents turned on to a hot dish. A few raspings should be sprinkled over, and some fried bread put round the base. More gravy can be sent to table. Veal, Hashed.—A hash may be brown or white, and the ways of varying, by seasoning, &c., are many. For a tasty brown hash, any gravy from the roast should be heated; it should be' the consistence of thick cream, and if not enough to coat the meat, stock must be added, any skin and gristly parts of the meat being used in its manufacture. The meat should be in oven slices, not too thin. It may lie in a mixture of claret and flavoured vinegar, just enough to moisten, for an hour before being heated in tho gravy; or a glass of claret, and a tablespoonful of any vinegar preferred, may be added to a pint or so of gravy. Should the meat be at all under-done, it may be put in the gravy while it is warm, and brought very gradually to not quite boiling-point, at which it should remain until tender and cooked. Brown roux or browned flour is best for the thickening. In place of claret, use good store sauce or ketchup. Garnish with croutons, and any nicoly cooked vegetables, or bacon or ham. (See also recipes in Made Dishes, and Mince below.) Veal, Minced, Plain. — Re- quired : veal, bacon, slock, milk, thickening, toast, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. without a garnish of vegetables. For a white dish, take a pound of meat, either braised or roasted, and mince it by cutting or passing through a mincer. Take a pint of plain white stock, in which boil down any bits of skin and gristle from the meat, with a bunch of herbs, and a bit of mace and lemon peel. When well flavoured and reduced to three-quarters of a pint, thicken with an ounce and a half of flour, and add a gill of milk and an ounce of butter. Put in the minced meat, with a couple of ounces of cooked ham or bacon in dice, salt and pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a grain of mace or nutmeg and cayenne. Serve hot with sippets of toast round it, or croutons are nicer; potatoes in various forms are also suitable. Any stuffing may be added to this, or parsley, or other herbs, can be put in, so can a few button mushrooms, cut up ; they must be cooked in tho539 COLD MEAT AND SCRAP COOKERY. sauce before the meat goes in. Little forcemeat balls, made from either of the forcemeats without suet, are also suitable for adding to the mince, or for garnishing. For better mince, use a richer white sauce, and add more meat in proportion, about a pound to three gills. Cut lemon in fancy shapes should be used for garnishing, or the lemon may be in dice, in little piles. For a brown dish, the gravy should be thickened with browned flour or roux, the milk omitted, and a little store sauce added. Small rolls of fried bacon, or ham fried and cut in dice, may be put round the mince alternately with lemon, or croutons; lemons, cut, should be handed with the dish if not put on it. Limes are equally suitable. For the most savoury dishes of this class, a clove of garlic may be rubbed across the bottom of the stewpan; this will impart a slight flavour, not a decided taste of the bulb, which is a great favourite with some in veal dishes, but condemned by most be- cause not used in moderation. For any dishes of veal, mince or any other sort, for which boiled meat is used, the sauce must be well seasoned, or it is insipid. A dash of chutney, or the liquor from hot pickles, as piccalilli, will give variety to veal dishes. (See Made Dishes.) A morsel of meat of a gelatinous nature improves veal dishes for some palates : calf’s head or foot, for instance. A grate of Par- mesan cheese gives “tone” to the dish. Veal, Minced, with Eggs.— Required: veal, sauce,seasoning, eggs, and vegetables, and garnish as below. Cost varies with the vegetables and garnish. Mince the meat (about a pound), and heat it in half a pint of good White Sauce, or Economical B£chamel ; sea- son nicely with salt, pepper, and a pinch of mushroom powder, and grate in a bit of lemon peel just before serving, with a few drops of strained juice. Boil three or four eggs hard, slice them, and form a ring round the meat, after dish- ing it in a pile. Then pour over it a gill of MaIthe d’Hotel Sauce. All round the egg border put some vegetables— peas, asparagus points, or flageolets; coat them with thin bechamel—the vegetables should show through—and garnish with cut lemons. Another way.—Heat the veal as above; dish it, and pour some egg sauce round the base of the pile, and garnish the top with croutons, giazed and sprinkled with sieved egg-yolk and chopped parsley. Some small sausages, or cakes of sausage meat, fried, may be placed about the dish ; or some little rolls of bacon may be used. (See recipes.) Veal, Minced, with Hari- cots.—Dish the meat as above, and put some triangular croutons upright round the dish, with little mounds of green haricot puree in between, put through a forcing-pipe. Serve more haricots, whole or a puree, in a separate dish. Any fresh green vegetable puree can be used in the same manner. (See Vegetables.) Veal, Minced, with Mace- doines.—Required: a pound of cold veal, a quarter of a pound of bacon, about a gill of white mushroom sauce, and twice that measure of White Sauce or Economical Bechamel, lemons, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, from 2s. 8d. to 3s. The veal may be from a roasted or braised joint; take skin and gristle from it, cut it in small dice, heat the bechamel, and stir the meat in; fry the bacon (or it may be fiom a piece of boiled bacon), mince and add it, and season with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Heat a tin of mace- doines ; turn them out, and put them round the dish, wdth the mince in the centre. Fry some triangular bits of bread, and spread them with the mush- room sauce ; use them and some slices of lemon for garnishing. Another way. — l’ut some cooked button mushrooms about tho mince and amongst tho macedoines; place a star-shaped crouton on tho top, with aUNIVERSAL COOKERY' BOOK. 540 hatelet skewer through, and. surround it with small forcemeat halls. This is a very good dish. Veal, Minced, in Potato Cases.—Required : twelve ounces of cold veal, roasted or braised, with some of the stuffing, two ounces of minced ham, the same of grated cheese, potatoes, seasoning, butter, crumbs, and stock as below. Cost, about Is. 9d. Line some little china cases with potatoes as directed in the recipe for Kidney in Potato Cases. Then sprinkle the insides with a pinch of the cheese : it may be good dry English, but Parmesan is best. Make a mince in the usual way with the veal, ham, and stock; about a gill of No. 9 should be used, together with a gill of sauce ; this may be mushroom, parsley, or plain white. Fill the cases just level; cover with more potato—a thin layer only ; dredge with bread-crumbs, and a pinch each of grated lemon peel, nutmeg, and cayenne. Put a few bits of butter on, and bake in a sharp oven, care being taken not to burn the bottoms of the cases, or the meat will harden. If the oven is fierce, set them in a tin in a little hot -water until hot through, then brown the tops, and serve hot. This is a good method generally. Gar- nish with fried parsley. Another way.—Omit the cheese, and use some herbs and grated lemon peel to season the potato cases. The sauce used should be flavoured with the same sort of herbs if possible. Veal and Rice Cakes.— Required : veal, bacon, rice, seasoning, stock, crumbs, and gravy. Cost, about Is. per dozen. Take some rice, such as is prepared for rice borders (any left over from a border, for instance), or boil some in stock {see recipes for the various ways of preparing rice as a savoury); add to it half its weight of cold veal, and the same of cold bacon, first finely minced, then pounded. Pound altogether with a little seasoning, salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg; thyme and parsley will im- prove it—a (easpoonful of the former and half us much of the latter for a pound of the mixture. Add the yolk of an egg, and form into cakes or little balls. Coat with white of egg and crushed vermicelli, or crumbs, and fry brown. Send a sauce or gravy to table; if the former, a piquant brown is as good as any, or a gravy from veal bones, thickened and flavoured with mushroom ketchup, is very good; capers and their vinegar may be used instead. (SecMade Dishes and Gravy for Roast Veal.) Venison Boulettes a la Calypso.—Required : twelve ounces of cooked venison, fat and lean together, salt and cayenne to taste, a pinch of ginger and nutmeg, a tablespoonful each of brown sauce and bread-crumbs, an egg, half a glass of claret, and an ounce of grated ham, some cooked beans, and Sauce a la Calypso. Cost, about Is. 8d. without sauce. Mince the meat and ham. Heat the sauce, wine, and crumbs; mix in the mcatand seasoning; add the egg,beat it well, and when cold form into bulls the size of a Tangerine orange. Dip them into the white of an egg beaten up, then drop them into boiling stock, or the liquor from boiled meat; in five minutes remove them. Have in a stewpan some sauce as above, put the boulettes in in a single layer (the sauce should cover them); in ten minutes take them up, dish in a pile with the sauce over, put French beans round, and garnish with cherries as used in the sauce. The beans should be plainly boiled, and well drained. Mutton may be used in the same way. Venison Croquettes. — (&* Mutton Croquettes.) Venison, Curried. (See recipes under Mutton and Game.)—Venison can be used similarly. For other I dishes of venison, see Index.CEREALS AND PULSE, CHEESE AND EGGS. GENERAL REMARKS. Yery few remarks are called for here, as each class of food above named is explained under its heading. By cereals we refer to all the edible grasses and the farinaceous grains that are generally associated with them ; likewise what we may best describe as manufactured foods of this class, nud to which fancy names are given by the manufacturers. The various products of wheat known as Italian pastes likewise fall into the same group. The dishes themselves are, for the most part, of the savoury order, but a few are included which belong to the sweet variety, yet, by reason of their plainness, would be misplaced in the chapter on Sweets. The possible combinations of cereals and pulse can only be briefly detailed, but the examples given will, if the preliminary remarks are studied, serve as the groundwork of a great number of dishes. The amalgamation of cheese and egg cookery in the present section is, for the most part, due to the fact that both eggs and cheese enter into a number of the cereal dishes, and rightly so. Such additions not only produce very savoury and nutritious mixtures, but also more wholesome ones than can be had from the same materials in their natural or separate form. For example, the starch of rice dilutes so to speak, the excess of nitrogenous matter found in cheese; while the eggs are necessary in many cases to bind as well as give richness to the composition. Again, in the grouping of the materials, an opportunity is given of detailing many points in connection, that will be of service in other chapters. We would call special attention to the variety of cheap dishes herein, particularly those of cereals and pulse. CEREALS AND ITALIAN PASTES. Of cereals in the whole state, excluding for the moment all the finely- gronnd forms, simple matter as it may appear to serve them up in a digestible form, no branch of cookery is more generally neglected, or more uncertain in its results. Those unfamiliar with a burnt rice pudding, with the grains as hard as the proverbial bullet; the semi-cookcd, lumpy, tepid gruel; or a huge dish of sodden pasty-looking boiled rice, from which the strongest turn with aversion, are in the fortunate minority. Perhaps the main stumbling-blocks are insufficient cooking, and too large a proportion of the grain to a given quantity of water or other liquid." By grasping the simple fact that all starchy foods want plenty of timo and room to swell and burst, it follows that hurried cooking is a mistake. Take theUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 542 case of rice. What must happen if a dish filled to the brim with milk, and with perhaps three times too much rice, is set in an oven unduly heated P Just this. By reason of the intense heat, the milk soon boils ; over it goes into the oven, causing waste and a smell that pervades the whole house; the grain hardens, and the milk, that is to say, the albuminous part of it, forms a black skin on the top ; the dish burns, and in a short time the rice becomes a hard mass; it cannot go on swelling, as there is no milk left uuabsorbed; therefore, the longer it remains in the oven the drier and harder it becomes. This is the point we would press home : starch has a natural affinity for water, milk, or any other liquid—and it is only by prolonged cooking at a gentle heat that the proper use is made of starchy foods. The finely-ground cereals above referred to, as well as the pastes, like macaroni, that are made from them, naturally take less time to cook; yet even in the case of arrowroot, than which nothing can be finer, a minute or two’s boiling is an improvement, though many think that the addition of boiling water answers, and that no actual cooking is wanted. An exception must also be made in the case of cereals in packet form, known as “ steam- cooked; ” here the starch grains are already ruptured ; but even for these our experience is that a longer time than is directed by the makers may, as a rule, be allowed with advantage. Most of us know that a change of diet is beneficial; and we would advise all whose lot it is to cater fer a family to vary these dishes to the fullest extent. A mistaken notion often prevails that, because a certain article is nutritious, one cannot do better than stick to it day after day. Oatmeal is a valuable food, without question, and in many a home oatmeal porridge is a standing dish ; but both children and adults might with advantage be served with an occasional plate of hominy, barley, or other grain. The modes of serving, too, may well be varied; the most trifling change sharpens the appetite and gives zest to the dish; the substitution of stewed fruit for the familiar treacle or sugar, or a savoury porridge instead of a sweet one, would break the oft-complained-of monotony, so frequently due to want of thought. We pass on now to a matter that will be of interest to those who, despite the most careful cooking, find starchy foods hard to digest. We refer to pre-digestion by the aid of malt flour, and ask attention to the paragraph on Malted Cereals in the present chapter. The value of malt as a digestive agent is a well-established fact, further increased by its imparting no unpleasant flavour to the dish, while its low price is another recommendation: at the time of writing malt flour costs but fourpence per pound. So far as we are aware, no mention is made of malted foods in the ordinary run of cookery books, therefore these hints may be the more useful. The subject is exhaustively dealt with in the writings of Dr. Bridger and Professor Mattieu Williams; but the hints in this work are given as the result of personal experiments, and if space permitted, the dishes named might be largely augmented. Before quitting cereals we would point out the need of careful storage to protect them from dust, damp, and insects; thorough washing is of equal importance, and soaking of the hardest sorts is very advisable. Concerning Italian Pastes, but little need be said. A visit to anyCEREALS. 543 good sliop in Loudon, kept by Kalians, and devoted to the sale of the produce of their country, is a revelation in the variety of pastes exposed to view, which are not obtainable elsewhere. Some of the shapes are very pretty ; one sort is notunlike the little paper cutlet frills ; another, called • celery macaroni,” is in short lengths, ridged, and as thick as a celery stalk ; and there are hosts of others. One rule applies to all: they must not be soaked, but when they are added to any clear liquid, soup for instance, they should be parboiled to free them from any adhering flour; that woidd cloud the preparation. All are made from a hard, nourishing variety of wheat, though the colour varies. The brown kinds, though less inviting in appearance, are considered most nutritious; the yellowest are tinted by means of saffron, by way of pleasing the palate through the eye. The mode of preparing macaroni as directed under that heading will serve as a guide for ail the pastes. With ordinary care.no one need fail to concoct any number of dishes, both savoury and sweet; but first principles must be understood and carried out, otherwise the pasty messes associated with these foods by those who have never tasted them in their proper con- dition, will continue to be served up, and perhaps nothing is more calculated to create aversion. But those who are willing to take the necessary pains, and to whom Italian paste is an untried food, would do well to try it; it is one of the few articles of diet that gain weight in the cooking; and when its price and nutriment are judged by the meat standard, recommendation on the ground of economy is fully justified. For adding to clear soups, the small shapes of paste in the form of letters, stars, and various fancy devices, are much used ; and those who care to give the time may make their own by following the recipe for Home-made Macaroni on page 545. Arrowroot.—In this substance starch exists in a state of almost abso- lute purity. It is made from tho root stock of Marantn arundinacea, a native of the West Indies. It contains but the merest traces of nutriment in the form of flesh-formers and mineral matter: and no matter what may be paid for it, its value as a food remains the same. Arrowroot, has, however, this to recommend it : it can in some cases of sickness be borne by tho stomach when nothing else can; and one writer says that although in itself it is of little value, it appears to pave the way for more nutritious diet later on. For every-day uses in the kitchen, corn-flour can be substituted for arrow- root. The latter is said to be fre- quently adulterated with potato starch. The price of arrowroot varies from about 6d. to 2s. fid. per pound, fit. Vincent is the lowest; Natal comes next; and Bermuda arrowroot is the highest priced. For recipes sec Index. Barley.—There arc few more use- ful cereals than this; for while less nutritious than wheat and some others, it is so soothing and digestible as lobe particularly suited to invalids. Tot barley and pearl barley are the same thing, the rounded form of the latter being due to the process of milling-, which frees it from the fibrous coats of the grain. Barley flour, or “patent barley,” is pearl barley finely ground. It may bo bought loose for a few pence per pound; in packet form it is dearer, but, being beautifully fine, is soon cooked. This is tho kind generally used for infants and invalids. (See the chapter on Food for Invalids andUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 544 Infants.) In the preparation of whole barley, both pot and pearl, more than ordinary care in washing is necessary. It is very dirty, and the water may be changed many times and yet como away dirty. The best plan is to scald it, after repeated washings; or to blanch it, by putting it on in cold water and bringing it to the boil; after another rinse it is ready for use. Barley wants long, slow cooking, and care must ho taken to avoid burning. Many of the rough grains—hominy, for instance—are much improved by mixing with barley. It also blends well with all sorts of pulse. Cost, 2d, to ,3d. per pound. Barley Porridge.—Barley that has, been cooked for the purpose of making barley-water answers very well for this. Put as much of the barley as may bo required in a saucepan, and just cover it with cold milk. Stir to the boil, and cook for a few minutes ; then serve with any of the usual adjuncts (see page 556). Made thus, and seasoned with salt and pepper, and thickened with a toaspoonful or so of lentil or pea flour to each half pint, a- very good savoury porridge is obtained. Another way.—This is more nutri- tious. The above is given for the benefit of those who have to study strict economy. Cook the barley in water as below, using a quart to four ounces, and serve with hot new milk and sugar. By the addition of a little cream, a very nourishing and delicious dish is obtained. Another way is to use a pint, or rather more, of water, and add milk to make up the quantity when the barley is three parts cooked. If a jar is not at hand, a double pan may be used with advantage. By sotting the jar in a vessel containing water, less frequent stirring is needed, and it will cook as well on the top of a range as in the oven. For Barley Flour Porridge, see Lentil Flour Porridge ; see also Rice and Barley Porridge. Barley, Savoury Stew of. (See Barley.)—Prepare the grain as directed, and put it in a stone jar, with any weak stock, vegetarian or meat, according to requirements, in the pro- portion of a quart to a quarter of a pound of barley. Add an ounce of dripping or other fat, a little salt and pepper, and a bunch of herbs; stir and cover, set the jar in a Blow oven, and cook for about three hours. Any of the vegetables generally added to Roups may be put in, either separately or mixed, and in any*desired proportion ; but as the whole should bo thick when done, supposing the vegetables are of a very watery kind, allowance must be made by reducing the liquid at starting. A dish that can be especially recommended is made by adding "a grated carrot, a medium-sized onion, fried, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tablespoonful of chopped celery to each quarter pound of barley, an hour after it has begun to simmer. At the end of the time any other flavouring to develop the savour of tho dish may he added at discretion—as flavoured vinegar, a hint of garlic, or a morsel of curry. Any scraps of meat may be put in, and the dish will be found a good substitute for meat for children’s dinner. Buckwheat.—This is extensively grown in temperate countries, and is easy of cultivation. In England it appears to bo best known in connection with the feeding of game and poultry; but it is a favourite food in America in the form of bread and cakes (for which see recipes in that chapter). In the husk of buckwheat there is much indigestible matter in the form of fibrous material; but in the seed which is mado into flour there is a considorablo amount of nutriment. The cost of this flour is about the same as the fino kinds of wheaten flour. It is to ho had of dealers in American produce and at most vegetarian stores. Cassava.—Native cassava is pre- pared from the plant from which wo get tapioca. Those who like novelties in food will be interested in hearing that cassava cakes, which are pronouncedCEREALS. 5-45 a real delicacy, are now to be had in this country. They are in original tins of something over a hundred, and are eaten for tea or with cheese. They are obtainable through dealers in Italian produce. Cereals, French.—{See French Cereals.) Cereals, Malted.— {See Malted Cekeals.) Cereals, Steam-cooked.— {See Steam-cooked Cereals.) Corn-flour. -— Corn-starch is an- other name given to this, especially in works on American cookery. It is also sold under various fancy titles— as Maizena, Oswego, &c. There may be slight differences in the various preparations; but they can only be regarded as starch rather than flour, and the feeding value is the same in all. Corn-Hour is, however, generally amalgamated with milk, eggs, butter, &c., in the form of cakes, creams, &c.; the nutriment is thus increased, and for what we may call delicate cookery, com-flour is very useful. The remarks made under Arrowroot, as well as in that devoted to the consideration of food for invalids, apply with equal force here. Cost, from 4d. to 6d. per pound. Directions for use are to be found on all packets of corn-flour. {See Index for recipes.) French Cereals.—This is a general rather than a special term, by which we distinguish certain prepara- tions of French manufacture that are •veil known and largely used in this country—so largely used, in fact, that they would be greatly missed by all who are at all experienced in refined cookery. Their chief advantages over the ordinary sorts are their good quality to start with, the short time in which they may be cooked, and their digestibility. But owing to their cost, they are only likely to be utilised for better-class dishes or for invalids. Perhaps one of the best-known is the crushed tapioca to which reference has been made in former recipes; this is K called either Tapioca Groult, Creep, or Exotique. Of sago there are Sagou Groult, Mignonette, and others. Either of .these will cook in about twenty minutes if stirred into boiling soup or milk. The same rule applies to all— the stirring must be continued from beginning to end, or the grain forms into lumps. Semoule d'ltalie is fine semolina, and Creme de Eiz is the finest rice flour. Creme d'Orge is a prepara-. tion of barley, and Orge d'Allemagne is the distinguishing mark of the German barley. Besides these, there are potato flour and chestnut flour, called respec- tively Fecule de Pomme de Terre and Farine de Chataignes, both of which are admirably adapted for cakes and biscuits, as well as for puddings and souffles, and other dishes wheie light- ness and delicacy are of imporlance. Recipes for these will be found on reference to the Index. Frumenty or Furmenty.— [See Wheat.) Home-made Macaroni and other Italian Pastes.—The materials required are fine flour, eggs, water, and salt. The method is as follows :—Put the flour on a board, see that it is quite dry and properly sifted, and use only the best Vienna. To each pound of flour add four eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and some water (about four tablespoonfuls); whether this is better warm or cold is a disputed point; some cooks declare that it must be lukewarm, and others say that only an icy coldness will yield good results. Some, again, say that no water is wanted, and use eggs only ; but the water does facilitate the rolling ; the paste is richer if only the yolks of the eggs bo put in, but unless the whites can bo used up in some other dish, tho wholo eggs can be put in. In any case, tho paste must be stiff, the board must bo thoroughly floured, and the paste cannot be too thinly rolled. In mixing the ingre- dients a spoon should be used at first, then, as it gets thick, the fingers must be employed ; should it prove too stiffUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 54G to roll, a few drops more water must be put in ; and if too soft, more flour from the dredger. Flour varies so, that the exact amount cannot bo stated; but the paste will be all the nicer if the right quantity be put in at first. After the paste is rolled into sheets, spread them on a clean cloth to dry for half an hour or more ; the best way is to divide it into three or four parts, then while the first is drying, the second is being rolled, and so time is saved. When the sheets are dry enough, put them back on the board for cutting up into the required shapes. For macaroni (by which we refer only to the kind called tape or ribbon—not pipe, i.c. that with a hole through it), lay the sheets on one another and cut into long "shreds half an inch or so in width. For fancy shapes for adding to soups, use any small star or other pretty cutters that may be handy. To make nouilles paste, cut the paste into strips of a few inches long, and almost as thin as vermicelli; it assists the cutting to use a ruler, such as is used for ruling lines on paper. Besides the above thread-like variety, nouillcs are cut like runner beans, or shaped lilco birds’ eggs. The paste is also cut into rounds in Germany, filled with a mince of ham and herbs, and rolled up like a tiny pudding, then cooked in broth. These are called filled nudelns, the Gorman name for the paste. Raviolis are made by cutting the paste in rounds with a plain or crimped cutter, and filling with rich forcemeat, making them puff-shaped ; or the little ball of forcemeat is laid on one round of paste, and a second round is pressed over it. In this way many dainty little dishes are obtained. The paste will keep in tin canisters if it is thoroughly dried after cutting; but it is intended mainly for immediate use. It cooks quicker than the bought varieties. A last hint: do not try to roll the paste with a .pin that bulges in the middle; it must bo quite straight. A marble slab should be used in pre- ference to a board. Hominy.—This is one of the staple foods of the vegetarian, and is a very valuable article of diet; it is not too much to say of it that almost every person might eat it occasionally with advantage : for growing children it is excellent, but it is not suited to infants. In the United States hosts of the class known as brain workers, of both sexes, indulge freely in hominy at their mid- day meal. It can be served with equal success as a sweet or savoury, and it has the merit of extreme cheapness. But hominy has one drawback; it cannot be got ready in a hurry; to be worth eating, that is. In scores of recipes one may meet with some such direction as “ boil for ten minutes;” some go further and advise twenty : we know one American writer who asserts that the propounders of such recipes have never tasted hominy. It may be unfair to take this for granted ; but it is not too much to say that few persons, after tasting hominy after a couple of hours’ cooking, would ever again be satisfied with the orthodox twenty minutes. This necessitates a double pan for such dishes as are prepared over the fire, or much stirring is involved; but in most cases, even for porridge, the cooking may be done in a jar in tho oven, or the jar may be set in a tin of water on a cool corner of tire range: some people loavo the jar in the oven all night, and wisely. Perhaps no grain derives more benefit from tho soaking process than hominy; it softens it as no amount of cooking, minus soaking, will; but it is well to state that there is always a trace of roughness about hominy, however long it may bo cooked, and to some this is an objection : it can bo considerably reduced, however, by adding a small amount of any cereal of tho smooth kind, either whole or ground —sago and barley being amongst the most useful. Hominy comes over to this country in linen bags, so is cleaner than many cereals; but some washing is advisable. It is sold at about 9d. per bag of five pounds. “ Steam- cooked ” Hominy takes but a short time to cook, but it is not obtainableCEREALS. 547 everywhere. It is sold in bags as above, but costs more. Hominy, as a Vegetable.— Wash and place the hominy in a greased jar, with a quart of water or weak stock to each quarter pound; soak it all night if possible. Season to taste, add an onion if liked, cover and cook for at least two hours, better still for three; it should be quite thick, but must not bum, and a little more liquid may be wanted. A thickening of barley, pea, or lentil flour may be put in, or it can be eaten as it is with all sorts of meat; and, almost needless to add, should the meat be a roast or stew, the gravy improves the hominy. This may' be converted into a very tasty dish". (See Barley, Savoury Stew of.) Cost, a few pence only for a good-sized dish. Hominy, Tried. — Any spare hominy, prepared as above, should be poured out to cool on a flat dish, and cut into squares or fingers when cold ; flour well, and fry' brown; the dish is improved by flavouring the hominy with sage and garnishing with little piles of fried onions. This is a tasty breakfast snack, alone or with meat, bacon, &e. (See also Hominy Fritters in a later chapter.) Hominy Kromeskies. — Re- quired : hominy, bacon, batter, &c., as below. Cost varies with the adj uncts. Take hominy as above, when cool, but soft enough to form into shape; allow half a tablespoonful for each; have a sufficient number of slices of cooked bacon, cut thinly, lay the hominy at one end, and roll up like a little sausage; flour them, and coat with thick Frying Batter. Drop them a few at a time into hot fat, and take them up with a slice as soon as a pale brown. These may bo varied by adding minced kidney, hard-boiled eggs, scraps of- cooked forcemeat from cold meat, a morsel of fish, or somo grated cheese to the horniny ; they may be served plain, or with a suitable sance or gravy. Hominy Porridge. (See the remarks under Porridge and the re- cipes for Oatmeal Porridge.)—Allow about a quart of water or other liquid to a fourth or fifth the measure of hominy, and cook in either of the ways given under the above heading. A mixture of rice and hominy' makes a very good porridge ; a still smoother one is to be had from sago and hominy'. The dish is nicer when the hominy is soaked well beforehand. Hominy, to serve as a Sweet. —Required : hominy, milk, sugar, and spice, with adjuncts as below. Cost, from 6d. upwards. Bake in a jar, or cook in a double saucepan, four ounces of hominy and a quart of good milk, with a pinch of salt and any spice to flavour. It will take quite three hours if the dish is to be served in perfection; it should be of por- ridge-like consistence. If for a hot dish, add a little white sugar, and turn on to a dish, and send sweet sauce, or stewed fruit, or jam to table. This is a famous dish for the nursery dinner. If for serv- ing cold, mix a raw egg with the hominy', then pour it in a mould, and turn out when cold; or spread it in a shallow tin, and serve in squares. There is a good deal in varying tho modes of serving even such simple dishes as these by way of making them more appel ising. Italian Raviolis.—Required: a forcemeat, stock, gravy, cheese, butter, and nouillea paste as below. Cost, from Id. to 2d. each. Take some noililles paste (see page 54 6); roll it out, and cut in rounds two inches in diameter, with a crimped cutter. Slake a forcemeat by mixing four ounces of roasted game or poultry', finely minced, with tho herbs and other season- ings given in tho recipe for Nouilles with Ham (second mode). The propor- tions may bo regulated by taste; then add somo grated smoked ham; tho result should bo a very savoury mixture. Lay tiny balls of this on each round, moisten the edges, fold over, and pinch together; leave them for an hour on a sieve to dry; then simmer them in boiling548 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. stock until done; drain and lay on a dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and put bits of butter on them ; put them in a brisk oven for about ten minutes (but they must be watched); then serve with good g'ravy. Another way.—Usg the meat as above, but the ham is better unsmoked; omit the herbs, and use some chopped fried mushrooms; cook as directed, and serve with gravy or Italienne Sauce. There are a number of preparations in the shape of minces and forcemeats in this work that could be used precisely as here indicated, and which would result in very savoury and, to most people, novel dishes. Kedgeree.—This is an Indian dish of cooked fish, rice, and hard- boiled eggs, with various seasonings; it is commonly served for breakfast, for which it is well adapted, being easily and quickly prepared. There is no limit to the changes that can be made in those dishes, as all sorts of iish are suitable, and the proportions of fish and rice are a matter of taste or convenience. The recipes that follow will serve as a guide to all the sorts. Fora plain dish, put an ounce of butter in a stowpan ; when melted, add four ounces of rice that has been boiled and dried as if for curry (any left over from a curry is thus used up in a very nice form), stir for a minute, then put in from five to six ounces of cooked fish, either flaked or in dice ; add salt and pepper, with a dash of nutmeg or cayenne ; then stir in a couple of hard- boiled eggs in dice. When quite hot, dish in a pile. The dish looks nicer if the whites of eggs only are put in, and the yolks sieved and sprinkled over the top. If the fish used is very dry, rather more butter is wanted, or, for economy, milk will do. Mustard or chopped chillies, or any hot pickles, cut up, are quite suitable as seasonings. For a better kedgeree, use half a pound of fish to a quarter of a pound of rice. Note.-—Tinned salmon, sardines, or lobster make a good kedgeroe; and mackerel, eels, and other sorts of oily fish, cooked in a piquant way, are excellent thus treated. Kedgeree, Rich.—Required: four ounces of boiled rice, nine or ten ounces of any white fish, with half a gill of any rich sauce that may be left over, or a little can be made; or cream with the yolk of a raw egg may be used, and is by some liked the better; three hard-boiled eggs, and a few shrimps. Cost, about 9d., but varies with the fish and sauce. If cream is used, add an ounce of butter only ; but if sauce, double it; mix as above directed, pile up, and garnish with the sieved yolk of one of the eggs on the top, and put the shrimps round the base ; they are to be heated first in a little fish stock. If a rod fish (as salmon) is preferred for this, garnish with small dice of white fish, first filleted, and cooked in any approved fashion. Wholo chillies, both red and green, may be strewn over instead of the egg-yolk. Macaroni. — This is the best known and most largely used of the Italian pastes, and in the country where it is made in perfection, is eaten alone, or in combination with almost every variety of animal or vegetable food. So far as flavour goes, macaroni can only be regarded as a neutral substance ; in a perfectly plain state it is insipid, and those who taste it thus for the first time, are not likely to regard it with favour : but on account of this, it may form the basis of any number of dishes, both sweet and savoury. The wheaten flour from which macaroni is made is very rich in gluten ; to this it owes its nourish- ing properties; therefore it must not be classed, so far as its nutriment is concerned, with rice and other cereals that aro mainly composed of starch : on the contrary, a dish of nicely pre- pared macaroni can be served as a substitute for meat. In cooking it a few points must be borne in mind, to ensure success; for simple as is the right way, few things are more often spoilt in the cooking. Do not soak it;549 CfcREALS. many do, on the ground that it absorbs moisture, and is therefore more eco- nomical. This is true, but if soaked it is liable to become “ pappy,” and if left to boil a minute too long may fall to pieces. The thing is to boil it until quite tender, without losing its shape. Then the water, or stock, should be fast boiling when it is put in, and this is best done gradually, that the liquid may not cease boiling. Crowding is a very common stumbling block: the best cook in the world could not boil macaroni properly in a little pan, with a small quantity of water—barely enough to cover it, as some people use. A couple of quarts of water is none too much for half a pint of macaroni; this is less than many advise; ten or twelve times the measure of water is laid down by one high authority. This is, of course, for the preliminary boiling; the final treatment is described in our recipes. Again, it is no use to lay down any hard-and-fast rule as to the time macaroni will take to cook. This varies according to the quality, kind and age. Xaples, or pipe macaroni, generally cooks in less time than Genoa, or curled macaroni, although the first- named is the thicker. From twenty- five to thirty minutes may be set down as the approximate time for pipe ; and from forty minutes to an hour for curled macaroni; but it is best to test a portion when purchased. There is generally a slight saving by buying a box of four or seven pounds, which is none too much for a family. A well- known writer on the cuisine suggests that those who wish to taste macaroni in perfection should pay a visit to a good Italian restaurant in London ; at many vegetarian restaurants it is also served in a host of appetising forms. Sir Henry Thompson says that most people can digest macaroni more easily and rapidly than meat, and that it is therefore an admirable substitute for flesh, for mid-day meals, for those whose employment demands attention daring a long afternoon. Macaroni costs from 4d. to 8d. per pound on an average. (Sec also Italian Paste, Sparghetti, and Vermicelli.) Besides the following recipes, others will be found in various chapters. (See also Digestible Cheese Dishes.) Macaroni in Batter. — Re- quired : macaroni, oil, seasoning, brown flour, eggs, an onion, cheese, herbs, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. There are endless ways of preparing this, and any of the batters-given in a later chapter might be used: but the following is so popular at the restaurant where it is served that we give it in its entirety. Break up six ounces of pipe macaroni into short pieces ; drop it into fast-boiling water, with a little salt, a tablespoonful of olive oil, a sliced onion, and a little pepper. When done drain it, and make a batter with half a pound of brown flour, a pint of the water from tho macaroni (when cool); two eggs, and the onion, chopped small. Bub the inside of a deep pie dish with oil, lay in the macaroni, and season with mixed herbs and cayenne, just a hint of the latter ; nutmeg can be added if liked. The batter should then be poured over, and the dish set in a quick oven. It will take about three-quarters Of an hour to become nicely browned. Make a pint of plain white sauce, flavour it with grated cheese, and serve separately. Another way.—Bake the above in a shallow baking tin, and cut it in squares when done ; many will prefer this, because there is more of the brown. Macaroni Borders.—These for * the most part belong to high-class savouries, therefore the ornamental ones are detailed in the chapter on Garnishes. A plainer sort of border, that is for which no mould is used, may be had by parboiling the macaroni as directed for Brown Macaroni, and cutting it up into half-inch lengths before the stock is added; it is a good plan to brush it over with thin glazo after putting it on tho dish, to form the border, ns this not only improves its appearance, but also holds it550 Universal cookery book. together. Any of the fancy-shaped macaroni, such as “ celery cut,” and also some of the varieties of the same paste, shaped as described under Home-made Macaroni, serve the same purpose. Macaroni, Brown.—This pre- paration of macaroni may he very plain or rich as required. To serve with a joint or family stew, take as much macaroni as is wanted, parboil it in water, then drain it and pour over it as much boiling stock as will cover it. Nos. 1 or 2 answer for this. Lot the macaroni cook gently until it is fully swollen but not broken; tho stock is to be absorbed. Then servo as it is in a vegetable dish, or sprinkle the surface with raspings. For a better dish, suitable for serving with braised beef or a dish of fillets, or a steak, proceed as above, but use stock No. 4. For serving with game, stock No. 5 is bettor, though No. 4 will do. For very superior dishes, give the macaroni only a few minutes’ cooking in the water, and drain it very thoroughly; it is better to let it cool before putting the stock to it; No. 16 or 17 should be used, or if a plainer one has to be substituted, make up the richness by the addition of glaze and extract of meat. Macaroni cooked as described will furnish a most welcome change for serving with animal food in the place of vegetables, or with a suitable garnish as a separate course. A reference 'to the chapters on Vegetables, both plain and “ dressed,” will also show that by judicious combination many tasty dishes of macaroni and vegetables nre possible. Wo use the term ju- dicious, mainly with regard to harmony of flavour. Such dishes as celery or onions braised in brown stock, fried or braised mushrooms, or purees into which brown gravy or sauce had entered, would be very satisfactory: relief from an all-prevailing brownness could be given by some bright garnish, as tomatoes, eggs, spinach balls, and r* other adjuncts. So much attention is now given to dishes that will replace the joint, and to tho dainty service of vegetables, that those who may make trial of any such combinations as are here suggested will have the satisfaction of knowing that they arc following the tide of fashion, as well as furnishing their tables with digestible and delicious dishes. Note.—Any gravy from a joint may be advantageously added to ihe maca- roni. By the same rule, a small quantity of good game stock, or fumet of game, is an acceptable adjunct. In tho latter case, any fruit jolly, or a glass of wine—in fact, any of the usual game seasonings—are quite admissible, and a great improvement. Macaroni and Cheese.—This is a plain recipe, and these proportions are for a good-sized dish, liequired : a pint and a half of milk, twelvo ounces of macaroni, eight ounces of cheese, three ounces of butter or very nicely clarified fat, an ounce and a half of fine flour, a little salt and pepper, a hint of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful or more of made mustard. Cost, about Is. 2d. Boil tho macaroni in water; pipe macaroni answers : it should be cut up when done into convenient pieces, or may be broken up at starting. Make a sauce by boiling the flour, milk, and butter together. Stir in the grated cheese, and let it dissolve; then add the macaroni. Season, and when well mixed pour into a-deep baking dish, or a cake tin, sprinkle with a little more cheese and brown it up before the fire or in the oven. If a tin, pin a clean napkin round, and serve at once. If a cheese too soft to grate be used for this, it should bo dissolved in a little of tho milk before mixing it in tho sauce; but by following the above recipe, cheese which is too hard for table may be used. It is more digestible without tho top layer of grated cheese, and raspings can lake its place. For a more nourishing dish.551 CEREALS. I chopped shalot, a teaspoonful of as used by vegetarians, use whole- meal for the sauce. We havo also tasted it made with barley-flour and tine oatmeal; such deviations from the ordinary method are entirely a matter of taste. Macaroni and Cheese, Richer.—Required : cheese, stock, milk, flour, butter, macaroni, garnish “SEMOFOOD” s reg’d L n I MACARONI Manufactured and Packed by Semolina Food Products Ltd Empire Way, Wembley Park Middlesex. Telephone - - WEMbley 1961 Should there be any cause for complaint please write to us quoting the number as below—postage will be refunded. If you are satisfied with the Macaroni, kindly tell your friends. Thank you ! Jy.42 Anoenrr way.— 1111s is less tronDle. Just put the pieces of toast on a large flat dish ; then pour the macaroni preparation over it and dredge with raspings. Cost varies with the adj imets. Macaroni a la Cliylesdeane. —Required: six ounces of the best macaroni, some garnish as below, a pint of rich Cheese Sauce, a gill of good Bechamel, and some stock. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of prawns. Boil the macaroni in white stock until almost done, tlion put it in the cheese sauce to finish tho cooking; turn it on a hot dish ready for serving. Add a little lobster coral or coralline to the bechamel to give a pink spread this over the macaroni ly, then garnish round it with i, heated in stock, and some dar croutons, placing them tely. Have some small fancy of Italian paste ready; they ■e carefully cooked to retain shape; dot these over the of the pink sauce, forming any . according to fancy. The dish a kept over boiling water while ling. This is a very good m dish. caroni a la Dncie.—Re- ; six ounces of macaroni, three ! American Cream Sauce (page e gill of lobster sauce (page 97), fried parsley, and ring-shaped is, the size of a florin. Cost, Is. 6d. the macaroni as above, put a pyramid on the dish, after ; a little of the cream sauce in st it; pour the rest over it; .he sprigs of parsley round the iltemately with the croutons, i the centre of the latter put of the lobster sauce ; reserve a i for tho top, and put tiny sprigs ;ley round it. This is a' pretty and any other pink fish sauce •s as well as lobster. caroni, Indian.—Required: ices of pipe macaroni, a pint of alf a pint of white stock, plain, I one ounce of butler, a bit of mace, aUniversal cookery book. 550 together. Any of the fancy-shaped macaroni, such at “ celery cut,” and also some of the varieties of the same paste, shaped as described under Home-mare Macaroni, serve the same purpose. Macaroni, Brown.—This pre- paration of macaroni may he very plain or rich as required. To serve with a joint or family stew, take as much macaroni as is wanted, parboil it in water, then drain it and pour over it as much boiling stock as will cover it. Nos. 1 or 2 answer for this. Let the macaroni cook gently until it is fully swollen but not broken; the stock is to be absorbed. Then servo as it is in a vegetable dish, or sprinkle the surface with raspings. For a better dish, suitable for serving with braised beef or a dish of fillets, or a steak, proceed as above, but use stock No. 4. For serving with game, stock No. 5 is better, though No. 4 will do. For very superior dishes, give the macaroni only a few minutes’ cooking in the water, and drain it very thoroughly; it is better to let it cool before putting the stock to it; No. 16 or 17 should be used, or if a plainer one has to be substituted, make up the richness by the addition of glaze and extract of meat. Macaroni cooked as described will furnish a most welcome change for serving with animal food in the place of vegetables, or with a suitable garnish as a separate course. A reference •to the chapters on Vegetables, both plain and “dressed,” will also show that by judicious combination many tasty dishes of macaroni and vegetables are possible. We use the term ju- dicious, mainly with regard to harmony of flavour. Such dishes as celery or onions braised in brown stock, fried or braised mushrooms, or purees into which brown gravy or sauce had entered, would be very satisfactory: voliivf -fvnm nn n 11 -TvrftVflilimr lirOWTlTlfiSS other adjuncts. So much attention is now given to dishes that will replace the joint, and to the dainty service of vegetables, that those who may make trial of any such combinations as are here suggested will have the satisfaction of knowing that they are following tho tide of fashion, as well as fuF" Extract from ro The Journal of the Royal Institute qi of Public Health and Hygiene. November, 1941. gl x S'- No. 2810. “ SEMOFOOD ” MACARONI. Microscopical examination of this food, which is prepared by mixing Semolina to a dough with water and drying the latter electrically, showed it to be a pure wheat product, and chemical analysis yielded the following data, viz. :— Proteins (N X 5.7) 11.74% Mineral matter ... 0.79% Adulterants and preservatives ... Absent We have inspected the factory where the Macaroni is made, and have found it to possess excellent natural lighting and to be well ventilated and scrupulously clean. Male employees wear white, overalls, and girls wear white caps as well ; suit- able washing and lavatory accom- modation is provided for both sexes. We regard SEMOFOOD Macaroni as a pure food of good quality prepared in a factory in which a satisfactory standard of hygiene is maintained. a ■ aoove recipe, cmfuse wi j’ recipe'.'ciieese which is mo nmu for table may be used. It is more rKo-ostililfi without, the ton laver of551 CEREALS. as used by vegetarians, use whole- meal for the sauce. We have also tasted it made with barley-flour and tine oatmeal; such deviations from the ordinary method are entirely a matter of taste. Macaroni and Clieese, Richer.—Required : cheese, stock, milk, flour, butter, macaroni, garnish and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. i* to eS w ai 11 P b si ' V // A V & or tomato puree; if the latter add a morsel of mustard and a few drops of lemon juice or white vinegar. Another way.—This is less trouble. Just put the pieces of toast on a large flat dish ; then pour the macaroni preparation over it and dredge with raspings. Cost varies with the adj tracts. Macaroni a la Chylescleane. —Required: six ounces of the best macaroni, some garnish as below, a pint of rich Cheese Sauce, a gill of good Bechamel, and some stock. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of prawns. Boil the macaroni in white stock until almost done, then put it in the i the cooking; turn ready for serving. coral or coralline mel to give a pink over the macaroni •nish round it with . stock, and some is, placing them i some small fancy paste ready; they cooked to retain these over the sauce, forming any to fancy. The dish boiling water while s is a very good la Ducie.—Re- s of macaroni, three Cream Sauce (page aster sauce (page 97), ey, and ring-shaped . :e of a florin. Cost, aroni as above, put on the dish, after ’ the cream sauce in Jr the rest over it; of parsley round the with the croutons, tre of the latter put ■ster sauce ; reserve a op, and put tiny sprigs it. This is a pretty other pink flsh sauce is lobster. Macaroni, Indian.—Required : six ounces of pipe macaroni, a pint of milk, half a pint of white stock, plain, one ounce of butter, a bit of mace, a chopped shalot, a tcaspoonful ofUniversal cookery book. >50 gether. Any of the fancy-shaped icaroni, such at “ celery cut,” and jo some of the varieties of the me paste, shaped as described under omf.-made Macaroni, serve the same irposc. Macaroni, Brown.—This pre- ration of macaroni may he very ain or rich as required. To serve ith a joint or family stew, take as uch macaroni as is wanted, pa water, then drain it and poi as much boiling stock as wil Nos. 1 or 2 answer for this e macaroni cook gently unt' lly swollen hut not broken; th to ho absorbed. Then serv in a vegetable dish, or sprin rface with raspings. For a bettor dish, suitable for sA. ith braised beef or a dish of ’ a steak, proceed as above, 1-j. ack No. 4. For serving with ill do. For very superior dishes, gi-j acaroni only a few minutes’ c - the water, and drain i oroughly; it is better to let - rfore putting the stock to it; -■ 17 should be used, or if a le has to be substituted, make “ J C+ CO C+ other adjuncts. So much attention is now given to dishes that will replace the joint, and to the dainty service of vegetables, that those who may make trial of any such combinations as are here suggested will have the satisfaction of knowing that they are following the tide of fashion, fur" chness by the addition of glat :tract of meat. Macaroni cooked as describi' rnish a most welcome char rving with animal food in the vegetables, or with a suitable a separate course. A re:y the chapters on Vegetable- ain and “dressed,” will also ah*1 7 judicious combination man; shes of macaroni and vegir ■e possible. We use the tei’ oious, mainly with regard to haj flavour. Such dishes as ce - lions braised in brown stocl ■ ■ braisod mushrooms, or purees into hich brown gravy or sauce had itored, would bo very satisfactory: lief from an all-prevailing brownness iuld be given by some bright garnish, i tomatoes, eggs, spinach balls, and o x oi CD CD vO • P v» O 3 • CD C/3 CD X M H- X 3 (D H* (D P V# .—i rx 3 rj) .—i CD CD CD 3 x • CD P 03 o t X o tPd O 10 • P , 3 u, vjurtJat: «mu ia i for table may bo used. It is more digestible without the top layer of grated cheese, and raspings can take its place. For a more nourishing dish.551 CEREALS, Just put the pieces of toast on a chopped shalot, a tcuspoonful of as used by vegetarians, use whole- meal for the sauce. Wo have also tasted it made with barley-flour and line oatmeal; such deviations from the ordinary method are entirely a matter of taste. Macaroni and Clieese, Richer.—Required : cheese, stock, milk, flour, butter, macaroni, garnish and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. This is a very good, though not ex- pensive dish. Make a sauce by boiling together half a pint of milk, an ounce each of flour and butter, a gill of plain white stock, seasoning as above, and adding, after it has cooked for a minute, three ounces of cheese. Pre- pare four ounces of macaroni, by par- boiling it in water, then finishing it off in some of the same stock used for the sauce. Put the macaroni in a hot dish for serving, pour the sauce over and blend lightly. Stick triangles of fried bread or toast round, and if liked coat with grated cheese or raspings. Either of the recipes given for Stewed Cheese or Welsh Rarebit can be followed for combining with macaroni in the above way. For a still richer dish, add more butter or a little cream. Macaroni and Cheese with Toast.—This is a nice family dish. Prepare the macaroni and cheese j ust as detailed in the recipe for Macaroni and Cheese. The proportions must be regulated by requirements. Make some toast and butter in the usual way; it is nicer if somewhat thinner than for table; fill a dish with the macaroni, &c., and the toast in alternate layers, having macaroni at the top and bottom, and finishing off as already described. The toast should be in pieces of a convenient size for serving. If liked, the toast may be moistened with a few drops of brown store sauce, or tomato puree; if the latter add a morsel of mustard and a few drops of lemon juice or white vinegar. Amlher way.—This is less trouble. large flat dish ; then pour the macaroni preparation over it and dredgo with raspings. Cost varies with the adj uncts. Macaroni a la Cliylesdeaue. —Required: six ounces of the best macaroni, some garnish as below, a pint of rich Cheese Sauce, a gill of good Bechamel, and some stock. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of prawns. Boil the macaroni in white stock until almost done, then put it in the cheese sauce to finish the cooking; turn it on a hot dish ready for serving. Add a little lobster coral or coralline pepper to the bechamel to give a pink tinge, spread this over the macaroni smoothly, then garnish round it with prawns, heated in stock, and some triangular croutons, placing them alternately. Have some small fancy shapes of Italian paste ready; they must be carefully cooked to retain their shape; dot these over the surface of the pink sauce, forming any pattern according to fancy. The dish must be kept over boiling water while garnishing. This is a very good luncheon dish. Macaroni d, la Dttcie.—Re- quired : six ounces of macaroni, three gills of American Cream Sauce (page 94), one gill of lobster sauce (page 97), some fried parsley, and ring-shaped croutons, the size of a florin. Cost, about Is. Gd. Boil the macaroni as above, put it in a pyramid on the dish, after mixing a little of the cream sauce in amongst it; pour the rest over it; place the sprigs of parsley round the base, alternately with the croutons, and in the centre of the latter put a spot of the lobster sauce ; reserve a crouton for the top, and put tiny sprigs of parsley round it. This is a pretty dish, and any other pink fish sauce answers as well as lobster. Macaroni, Indian.—Required: six ounces of pipe macaroni, a pint of milk, half a pint of white stock, plain, one ounco of butter, a bit of mace, aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK, 552 celery salt, half as much common salt, four ounces of fat ham or hacon, cut up small, the same weight of forcemeat from cooked veal, and seasoning as helow. Cost, about Is. Break the macaroni into even lengths, boil for five minutes, and drain it; put it in a jar with the other materials, milk and forcemeat excepted. The stock should be boiling when added. Cook until the stock is absorbed, then add the milk and let the whole simmer until the macaroni is tender and the moisture absorbed. Cut the forcemeat into dice, add it with four ounces of sultana raisins, and a little curry powder and cayenne. The raisins are to he first stewed in a little stock. Turn all into a deep dish, dredge with a mixture of bread-crumbs and curry powder, and brown the surface well. Then serve as it is, or with meat. Macaroni, Leghorn. — Re- quired : macaroni, butter, cheese, sauce, tomato puree and seasoning. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. This is recommended as a most excellent dish, if the instructions are carefully followed. But half a pound of macaroni into at least three pints of boiling water ; add a teaspoonful of salt, and a morsel of butter the size of a chestnut. Boil fast, and drain as coon as soft. Then put it in a sauce- pan, add an ounce of fresh butter by degrees, shaking the pan as it melts; then put in two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and half a gill of nice white sauce, as Bechamel. Keep shaking the pan until the contents are thick and creamy, then arrange the macaroni in a dish, in alternate layers with some tomato puree, bottled or fresh ; the top and bottom layers to he macaroni. Serve very hot. Note.—The macaroni must not he broken up. The puree should he hot and nicely seasoned. Macaroni & la B-eine.—Re- quired : half a pound of curled maca- roni, the same weight of rich white English cheese, three gills of creanq two ounces of fresh butter, seasoning as below. Cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. Boil the macaroni in white stock until tender, drain it and season with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Free the cheese from the rind and the hard part adjoining, and cut it in thin slices ; dissolve it in the cream, season it like the macaroni, then add the latter and toss lightly until well mixed. Turn into a dish for serving, and cover with fine crumbs of bread that have been fried a pale colour and well dried. Serve very hot. This is a rich and delicate dish. It is often varied by using a mixture of rich white sauce and cream, then the quantity of macaroni may he reduced a little. It is safer to heat the cream before the cheese is added, to avoid burning; a copper pan is wanted and the heat must he gentle. The cheese cannot he too rich for this ; it is use- less to attempt the preparation with a poor cheese. Maize, or Indian Corn.— This is a cereal of world-wide use, and is described as the noblest of the grasses. It contains less nitrogenous matter than wheat, hut is richer in mineral matter, and owing to its high percentage of fat it is a suitable food for cold weather. Many preparations of the grain are used in the United States. The ear is called a “ cob; ” the pearled grains are “samp;” the unripe roasted grains are known ns “pop-corn;” broken or split up, it becomes “ hominy; ” while the starch of maize is termed “ corn-flour,1' and is used as a substitute for arrowroot. In Italy the yellow flour of maize is boiled in water and flavoured with cheese; this is known as “ polenta.” This meal, commonly called “ golden maize meal ” may now he had in this country at about twopence per pound; it is apt to become musty, and only enough for immediate requirements should be bought; it is not only very liable to the attacks of insects, hut requires to he kept in a dry place; when damp, the flavour is most unnleasnnt. It553 cbiiiiAi.s. ctm be used iu soups, nnd many vegetarian dishes, also in bread, cakes, puddings, &c. (See also Corn-flour, and Hominy.) Maize Porridge.—This is like- wise called Sun*awn. Boiling milk, water or broth is used for the founda- tion, which is thickened with nmize meal in the way that wheatmeal and oatmeal are used in England. It forms a good strong meal, and is thought sufficient as a breakfast or supper dish for a man to work hard upon. (See Hasty Puddings. ) Maize may be used with, or instead of, wheaten flour. Malted Cereals.—At the out- set it may be well to state that the method here detailed has nothing in common with malt extract, or foods malted by the addition of that agent. Our object is simply to show how cereals of all sorts can be made digestible by the addition of malt flow. And without in any way disparaging liquid preparations of malt that are either taken alone or added to food, we have it on very high authority that, for the purpose we are now con- sidering, malt flour is the best and most active. The process is very simple; but certain rules must bo observed. The food is to be first thoroughly cooked before the malt flour is added, and the temperature must not again reach boiling-point. If this rule be broken, the food is spoilt. Take a dish of porridge, by way of illus- tration ; it may be oatmeal, hominy, or wheaten, or any other; to each quart, after the cooking is finished, and while just below boiling-point, add a teaspociDful oratrifle over of malt flour; stir it in well, then set it where it will keep hot, but where there is no chance of its boiling. The malt will thin it; so, if liked thick, allowance must bo made for this. Gruel of all sorts may be malted in this way, and in estimating the amount of malt to add, regard should be had to the amount of grain used for the gruel, rather than the measure of the food aftor cooking; R* thus, a pint of gruel that had been made with an ounce of lino oatmeal would take only half the malt the same measure of porridge, made from two ounces of meal, would require. To all sorts of farinaceous or cereal puddings, the malt can be added by raising the brown skin after baking, and stirring it in carefully'; the skin is replaced, and the pudding left to stand as above directed. There is no need to render it unsightly if proper care be taken. Further hints and recipes are given in other chapters. (See Index.) Nouilles, boiled in Milk.— Required : nouilles paste, milk, butter, and adjuncts as below, according to the nature of the dish. Cost, from 9d. to Is. on an average. Take half a pound of fresh nouilles paste in strips (see page 546); brown it in a little hot butter in a stewpan, then cover with milk, and let it cook until soft, from ten to fifteen minutes. If for a sweet dish, add a little sugar and flavouring, and stir in two or three beaten eggs ; after a few minutes, servo hot and do not boil again. Forasavoury dish, to go to table with any delicate white meat, omit the sugar, add a dash of salt, pepper, and mace, with the eggs, or some white sauce or thickened stock. Stir very lightly, that the nouilles may not break. Nouilles with Ham. — Re- quired : nouilles paste, stock, butter,ham, cheese, gravy, and toast. Cost, about Is., exclusive of gravy. Take paste as above, boil it in light stock, salted a little, for ten minutes; then drain it and put it in a saucepan with an ounce of butter, four ounces of cooked ham in dice, fat and lean to- gether, and two ounces of grated Par- mesan; add boiling brown gravy to moisten well, and, after a few minutes’ simmering, serve in a hot dish with buttered toast in strips. Another wag.—This is an Italian dish. Add to the foregoing materials a sprig each of parsley and borage, scalded and pounded, with two an- chovies and a slialot; these should boUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. D54 mixed with the gravy usod; j ust before serving, put in the yolk of a hard- boiled egg rubbed through a sieve. Oatmeal.—Oats are of great value as food, and the meal may be made into a large number of very nourishing dishes. Scotch oatmeal is considered the richest. There is no doubt about its being a good food for breakfast, both for children and adults whom it suits; but wo do not on this account agree with those who consider that it should bo served every morning, and that no breakfast table is complete without it : for, as we have elsewhere remarked, we believe that the advan- tages of changes in diet are many. As to the time for cooking oatmeal, wo incline to the opinion that it is hardly possible to over-cook it. We are quite aware that there are thousands of families who from custom, or, may be, convenience or choice, are content with the often-advised ten or twenty min utes’ simmering; and that many a hardy Scot or North of England man can eat and digest it when only mixed with boiling water. But dishes of this sort are for the fow, and from experience wo know that people who dare not venture upon oatmeal porridge of the half-cooked typo, can talce it with impunity when reduced almost to a jolly ; and the same remark applies to other dishes made from the same grain. Fine oatmeal is generally made into gruel, and tho coarse or medium used for porridge and other dishes. Oats in the whole state (called groats) are much liked by some; but they want very long cooking. There are several varieties of cooked or “patent” oatmeal to be had; they are useful when a dish is wanted in a hurry, or when the coarser forms are not found palatable, or do not agree; but their chief uses are in tho sick room and for young children. Oatmeal is spoiled in flavour if allowed to become damp, and it should bo bought of a thoroughly reliable dealer; for fow foods vary more in quality. Cost, about 2s. Gd. to 3s. por stone. The best will be the cheapest. Oatmeal enters into many dishes scattered through this work, for which see Index. Oatmeal Porridge.—For a very nice and easily made porridge, take a brown stew-jar, which must bo kept for the purpose, or, at any rate, for sweet dishes only; put in as much water as may be required, and four ounces of medium or coarse oatmeal to each quart. Add a good pinch of salt, and if it can soak for a few hours all the better. Then put the lid on, and give it two or three hours in a gentle oven, or the hob will do after it reaches simmei-ing-point. It will keep for a day or two, and may bo heated iis required in cold weather; we do not advise that it be kept in summer. An improvement on this—as tho stirring is dispensed with—consists in setting tho jar in a saucepan of boiling water. The exact thickness is best regulated by taste; but, on an average, two ounces of meal to the pint of water is about right. When only cooked for a short time, more meal must be used, as it gets thicker by being- cooked longer. The porridge should be served on hot plates, and some like cold milk with it, while othors prefer hot; sugar or treacle is also required; the accom- paniments par excellence are said to be honey and cream. Buttermilk is less known, but a most wholesome addition. Another ioa\j.—Have ready a sauce- pan of fast-boiling water, with a half teaspoonful of salt to the quart; take a porridge stick in the right hand, or tho handle of a largo wooden spoon is a very good makeshift; drop in the meal gradu- ally from the left hand, stirring each portion in by degrees, and avoiding lumps. When the full amount is in- corporated, put the lid on, and only remove it when the porridge needs stirring-; if burnt, it is spoiled. We advise at least an houi-’s cooking, and more will improve it; but if preferred, it can bo served in half an hour; then from three to four ounces of meal to tho pint is needed. The best way, wo think, to cook this or any other porridge is by means555 CEREALS. of the double pan. (See page 550, Porridge, General Remarks on.) Another way.—Have ready a suffi- cient quantity of boiling water, salted. Mix the oatmeal (which may be coarse or medium, as preferred) with cold water to a paste; add some of the boiling water and stir well, then pour it into the boiling pot gradually, stirring ;ill the time, and cook for an hour or more. Serve with any of the usual adjuncts. Porridge so prepared has a very good flavour, and is smoother than when the meal is simply sprinkled into the boiling water. It is further improved if the meal and cold water arc blended an hour or two before cooking, and if two hours’ boiling be allowed. Oatmeal, Stewed.—Attention is called to this, as it may take the place of ordinary porridge as a break- fast dish, where sweet foods are not liked, though it is equally suited for a dinner dish. A jar or double pan should be used for making it. Allow half a pound of coarse oatmeal to two quarts of vegetable stock; soak for some hours, and cook from three to four hours. Any herbs can bo added, or a little curry powder, or a spoonful of sauce or ketchup, or a fried onion or two. Pepper and salt should be added to suit the palate, and the stew served hot. (See Digestible Cheese Dishes and Malted Cereals.) A small proportion of sago or tapioca gives smoothness to this. Pilau.—The pilau or pilaff of Die Orientals has been described as the analogue of the Italian risotto. The basis is rice boiled in some sort of broth or stock, and the dish is generally popular. The pilau of the Turks is thus described by Sir Henry Thompson :— “ Wash well six ounces of East Indian rice, and boil in a pint of water for five minutes at the most. Then throw it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. Next place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by degrees half a pint of good fowl broth. After fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to lie served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true pilau; but additions maybe made of the meat of the fowl, of thin slices of bacon, or grated beef or ham, of a little curry powder, of chutney, of fried onions, mushrooms, &c., &c., and it can also be made with beef and veal broth, and treated as above; but in none of these forms could it be regarded as the true Oriental dish.” Pilau, Arabian. — Required : mutton, stock, rice, butter, &c., us below. Cost, about Is. 6d., exclusive of garnish. This is a much more substantial dish than the foregoing; in fact, it is a savoury stew. About two pounds of nock of mutton, a quart of well-seasoned stock, half a pound of Patna rice, and two ounces of butter will make a good- sized dish. The meat is first freed from fat, and stewed in the stock until done. Then the rice and butter are put in the stock and cooked gently. The meat is fried brown in butter, and added at the time of serving. Sometimes forcemeat balls, rings of onion, fried very dry, and hard-boiled eggs are used to garnish the dish. Pilau, Indian.—Required : mut- ton or lamb, onions, butter, rice, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 3s. This is recommended as one of the best of all the rice dishes. Take three pounds of lamb or mutton, cut it in neat joints, and chop up three large onions; fry the onions in three ounces of butter with a chopped mango; a pickled one will do, or four ounces of sultana raisins can be used. Add a dash of garlic and the moat, with a sprinkling of curry powder, and stir for half an hour over a gentle fire. While (his is going on, llio rice is to bo cooking in another vessel. This is done by boiling it in stock until nearly done, then draining and drying it and frying it brown in butter. About half a’ pound of rice (Patna) will sorvo for the above quantity of meat. Tho stock tho rice is boiled in comes in for soup. AfteiUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 556 browning the i'ice, season it with lemon or lime juice, powdered herbs, and spice. For the richest pilaus some cream is put with it. Lay half the rice on a dish, put the meat over, squeeze a lemon on it, then cover with the remainder of the rice, and serve without a moment’s delay. A chicken may be used in just the same way. Curry powder can be omitted, and saffron and cayenne used. In either case the dish must be well seasoned. Polenta.—The maize meal that is sold in Italy, and sent to various parts from that country, goes by the name of polenta. Semolina is often used for the preparations that go by this name. Polenta, A l’ltalienne.—Boil a quart of milk, add a teaspoonful of salt; drop in by degrees, stirring all the time, as much golden maize meal as will make it quite thick. Stir and boil until smooth. If properly made, this will look like the English hasty pudding. Add an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, turn into a buttered mould, and bake for nearly half an hour. This is extremely nourishing, very cheap, and very nice. Cost, about Gd. Another way.—This will bo preferred by those who do not like the flavour of Indian meal; though it is likely that the dislike arises from their having tasted it for the first time in a stale condition. Boil a quart of milk with four ounces of semolina for a quarter of an hour. Stir nearly all the time; if burnt, it is spoiled. Pour it in a plain mould, and let it set; then turn out and cut in slices, rather more than half an inch thick. Now butter a mould ; pour in a little clarified butter, then grated Parmesan, then a layer of the semolina. Go on in this order until the paste is used up; the dish or mould should be nearly full. At the top put a thick layer of cheese, then more butter, and bake in a moderate oven to a bright hrown, about half an hour. Turn out, and send grated cheese to the table, and, if liked, brown gravy in addition ; but it is so good in itself, that many consider that it requires neither. Polenta, Moulded. -This is to eat with meat, in the way that the English serve Yorkshire pudding. Pre- pare the meal as in the first recipe above, allowing about four ounces for a pint of milk. When it has boiled well, season with salt and pepper, and beat in an ounce of butter. Bake in a greased mould for half an hour to an hour, according to the depth of mould. These dishes may bo cheapened for family use, and will be found very nice, by using clarified fat instead of butter. A variation 'of this is made with a mixture of maize meal and cooked rice. Send to table in slices if the mould is deep ; in squares, if a shallow one. Cost, about 4d. Porridge, General Remarks on.—Under their separate headings we have given the recipes for the concoction of porridge; we here add a few remarks that may enable the in- experienced housekeeper to present the various sorts at table in somewhat novel forms ; by taking a little trouble, dishes of this kind may be made more agree- able and wholesome than they are as a rule. First, the utensil. This seems the place to sound the praises of the “ double saucepan ” or porridge-pan. These are of block tin usually; but they are made with copper bottoms both to the inner and outer pans, and are well worth the extra sum charged. Most of the leading gas-stove makers have a good selection of such goods, or any tinman will make one; one of poor material is worthless, as it is soon worn out where porridge is a standing dish. We have already spoken of the stew- jar ; and another first-rate cooking medium is to be found in a recently introduced article, made of earthenware, with a metal handle. It is to bo bad in various sizes, is most inexpensive, fits into ordinary saucepans on the glue-pot principle, and may be had of ironmongers everywhere. Food cooked in these vessels can neither burn nor boil over, and no stirring is needed;557 CEREALS. and anything that obviates this comes as a boon to the busy housekeeper. The cleanliness of any vessel is of primary importance. Many a child loathes porridge through life by reason of the burnt or “ foreign ” flavour imparted by cooking in a pan that has only been imperfectly washed. To ring the changes on porridge is very easy in houses where forethought is the rule ; and those who find that the plato of porridge palls—as it will sometimes—• upon the appetite of the child, will do well to try the effect of a dish of stewed apples or oranges, or one of dates or figs, as an accompaniment. Raisins, too, are excellent, and a glance at our chapter on Fruit will suggest other dishes. Then, it is a simple matter to alter the flavour by the aid of some such food as chestnut flour or banana flour; the latter is too sweet to be agree- able to many people when made into porridge of itself; but as a sweetening medium it is very nice. Then there is buttermilk; many country residents might indulge in this ; it is to be used in place of water, and is considered very wholesome, particularly in con- nection with oatmeal; skim milk, too, so often given over entirely to the pigs, is a valuable porridge basis; or either may be served with the porridge. Some may contend that such varia- tions are not necessary, and that children ought to cat whatever is good, or pronounced good for them by their elders. So far so good; but never is fruit more enjoyable than at breakfast, and never is it more wholesome; there- fore the expenditure is amply justified; while it is agreed by all who have studied the subject, that food that is eaten with a relish js more beneficial than that which is “ forced ” down; and no one can object to the use of such harmless zest-givers as we have enumerated. As to the “ savoury ” porridges, their name might indeed be legion ; from salt and pepper upwards, hardly anything in the way of savoury con- diments comes amiss. It seems to bo taken for granted very often that a child will eat anything sweet; but where distaste for sugar exists, a porridge to which a spoonful of gravy from a joint or a little savoury stock has been added, will frequently bo relished when a sweet one would be left upon the plate. Lastly, the time of year ought to regulate to some extent the food chosen. The oatmeal or maize dishes of the winter may, with advantage, giveplncc to lighter fare when warm weather sets in; rizino, florndor, coralline, and many other foods of modem introduction furnish a pleasant change, while wo have always with us hominy, barley, and rice to fall back upon. It is necessary to remember that the more starchy' and constipating the grain chosen, the greater the need of tho fruit as a counteractive. Hice.—This is a native of India, and is also grown in China and the East generally, as well as America and the southern parts of Europe. Carolina rice is large, and generally the dearest, from 4d. to 5d. per pound; it is used for such dishes as puddings, casseroles, &c., when the liquid is - intended to bo absorbed. For curries, or when tho rice is required dry, Patna is the sort to use : this is long and white, a trifle cheaper than Carolina usually', but tho finest kinds are the same price. Then there are Italian and Japanese rice, both a little cheaper than tho last named: with some, Japanese rice is tho favourite, as it is said to be tho most nutritious of all tho varieties. Rangoon and Java are the cheapest sorts; they' cost 2d. or less per pound. Both answer well for cheap soups and other dishes; so does broken rice, which is still cheaper, but needs very' careful washing. Rice is said to form tho main food of one-third the human race. Alone, however, it is not a perfect food, being deficient in flesh formers, and very poor in mineral matter; to tho latter fact is attributed tho difficulty' with which some persons digest rice. As a matter of fact it is considered very easy of digestion inUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 558 most cases ; nevertheless, many persons find that when consumed in a plainly boiled state it causes discomfort, and that this is less marked when condi- ments of some sort are added. This seems to justify the opinion that in such cases the trouble is duo to the inert properties of the grain, and that any food adj uncts that compensate for the lack of mineral matter are decided improvements. Rice has constipating properties, and its value in dysentery and all kindred disorders is well known. In order to meet the wants of people other than the dwellers in tropical climates, fat in some form, with a little nitrogenous food, is needed to make a dish of rice complete. Butter, cheese, bacon, &c., may all bo employed to give variety to, and increase the feed- ing value of, the dish. When bought in quantities rice needs careful storage to prevent the attacks of insects ; it also requires most thorough washing, and for puddings, or whenever it is to absorb the liquid, it is a vast improve- ment to soak it. (See also Rice a la Chicago.) Steamed rice is not we think much known in this country ; but it is very superior to boiled rice for many purposes; besides, there is loss loss of nourishment. It has been many times said, probably with truth, that when rico is boiled and the water drained off, the water contains the larger share of nutriment. Many rccipos for dishes of rice will be found in various parts of this work. In some of our recipos the words “ rice boiled as for curry, but in stock instead of water,” occur ; in such cases wo advise the blanching of the rico first in water, as detailed in Rice, Blanched. It is then to bo put into the stock, which should be clear, although it need not be clarified. It must be remem- bered that unless the stock is afterwards used for soups, &c., the process is a very wasteful one. When boiled in fish stock, for fish curries, take care to skim the stock, and add rather more than the usual allowance of lemon j nice, that the rice may not suifer in colour. (S‘.c Pilau, page 555.) Rice, Andalusian.—Required : oil or butter, rice, meat or poultry, tomatoes, onions, lemons, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 2s. if meat is used; more if poultry. This dish, which is one very commonly served in Spain and Portu- gal, is valued as a tonic during the heat of summer, and is also recom- mended as a preventative of intestinal indisposition : it is peculiar, but the taste for it is an easily-acquired one. Warm in a saucepan a quarter of a pound of best olive-oil or fresh butter. Throw in half a pound of picked rice, and one pound or one pound and a half of veal or poultry flesh, cut into neat squares. Add half a pint of tomato sauce, or three or four fresh tomatoes, one or two chopped onions, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered saffron, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. In Spain a clove of garlic is always added. Stir these ingredients into the warm oil, and let them stew gently for ten minutes; pour over them a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the rice has absorbed the liquor. Throw the whole into a heated strainer for a minute, to drain off any oil that may be left, and pile the rice, which will be a bright yellow colour, upon a hot dish. Hold a red-hot shovel or sala- mander over the top for a minute or two to brown the surface, and send the dish to tabic with cut lemons, that each guest may squeeze a little juice over his plate. The time for cooking depends upon the sort of meat used; about an hour and a quarter is the average. Any cold meat may be used up thus; the rice should cook until nearly done before the meat is added. It will be found very savoury. Rice,Blanched.—After washing in the ordinary way, put the rice in a saucepan, cover it with cold water and bring it to the boil slowly ; a little salt should be added. Strain it and rinso with clean cold water; it is then ready to cook in any desiredCEKEALS. 559 manner. We need scarcely point out that this takes away some of the nutri- ment, but it ensures that desideratum —whiteness—for delicate dishes. Rice, Boiled Plainly.-This can go to table with meat, bacon, or fish. Wash and soak the rice in tho water or stock in which it is to be cooked, allowing about a pint cf liquid to a quarter of a pint of rice. Bring to the boil, and let it boil rather quickly for a few minutes, then let it swell and simmer only until done. It will take an hour or longer, and all moisture should be absorbed. More stock may be required, but should be put in little by little. Greasy stock is best for this; or a bit of any fat can be put in with ordinary stock or water; it is a wise precaution to grease tho bottom of the saucepan. Season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. It will be seen that this mode of boiling rice is economical, as nothing is strained off. When to serve with fish, a fish stock is best for the boiling, and various additions in the way of seasoning may be put in, according to the dish it is to accompany. Just as it is it makes a tasty meal for children, if some fried onions or any- thing of a similar nature be added; a little cheese is also a good addition. Cold vegetables of all sorts can be chopped and stirred in for economy’s sake in a very plain dish. Note.—By using milk, the rice can be served as a sweet—a little sugar and spice being added towards the end; a bit of butter improves it. Rice, Boiled, Savoury.—By cooking tho rice in the above way it may be readily converted into tasty savouries at little cost. A stock well flavoured with onions or celery can be used, and a tablespoonful or so of chutney be added to a pound of rice ; any remnants of bacon also go well with this. A sprinkling of saffron shreds gives colour to a dish of rice,and some mixed hot pickles may be put in to flavour. A grated carrot and an ounce or two of sultana raisins will improve the dish for those who like mild com- pounds. They are to bo put in at first, and tho whole seasoned with salt and pepper. A dash of lemon juico or vinegar and a littlo browning gives another simplo dish. A tin of mush- rooms and their liquor to a pound of rice result in a nice dish ; or a few fried fresh mushrooms arc better. Cost, variable; from 3d. to 6d. for a good-sized dish, exclusive of mush- rooms. (See Bice Bokdehs, page 560.) Rice Boiled for Cold Savoury Dishes.—This is intended solely for use as an adj unct to ornamental dishes; tongues, pressed beef, and similar savouries may be sent to table on blocks of it, and it also answers well for borders and fancy shapes for the dishing of cold entrees. In any case it is not intended to he oaten. First wash and hlancli the rice; if these are neglected, instead of looking white when done, it will ho a dirty putty colour. Put it in a delicately clean stewpan of copper or steel, cover it with'cold water, bring to the boil very gently, then let it cook until dry ; care must be taken that it does not bum. If more convenient, it can bo cooked in a slow oven, the pan being set in a tin of water. About two and a half hours will be -wanted for a pound of rice, and now and again a very littlo water is to be put in, but not at the end of tho cooking. While hot, pound it. in a mortar to a smooth paste, and then work it a little with the hands ; they will need moistening with cold water, and a marble slab or flat dish is bettor than a board for the operation. Next lay the rice on a clean soft napkin, fold it over, and press out any moisture; then press it into any plain moulds, or stewpans answer equally well; either will need a rub over with oil or butter first. Then leave under pressure to cool, and use as required. (See the chapter on Gaunisues. ) In hot weather, or if the rice is wanted to set quickly, add a small quantity of dissolved gelatine to it before mould- ing. To save trouble and time in pounding, the rice is sometimes passedUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 560 through a sieve or potato masher first. Rice, Boiling for Curries.— To boil rice properly, so that each grain is distinct and the rice tender without being broken, oertainly re- quires care, hut it is not the difficult or mysterious process that some seem to imagine it. First wash the rice in several lots of cold water until it ceases to look cloudy. Patna rice is the kind to use. It will look nicer if blanched, but this is not always neces- sary, though when it is done it must he remembered that the rice will boil in less time afterwards. (See Rice, Blanched.) For each quarter pound of rice have ready a saucepan with at least a quart of boiling water in, and a larger quantity is bettor still. Add a tcaspoonful of lemon juice, this is to whiten it; and half a teaspoonful of salt, this raises the temperature of the water. Drop in the rice and let it boil for about thirteen minutes, or a trifle over or under according to the quality of the rice; the way to test it is to take a grain between the thumb and finger; it should be tender but not smash up ; after a little experience its appearance will indicate the moment for straining. Whon this point is reached, strain the rice through a colander, and pour a little cold water over to separate the grains. Many prefer to use hot water, as the rice takes so long to re-heat after the cold treatment; and it answers nearly as well. Shake the colander well, and pass a fork lightly through the rice a few times. Take care not to break it. To finish it off, several ways are open. A good one is to set the colander on a plate, and crumple an old soft cloth lightly on the top to absorb the steam; then set it on the plate-rack or in a meat-screen, or anywhere, for it to dry thoroughly and gradually. A plan better liked by some is to butter a saucepan and turn the rice into it, and set it on the hot-plato with the lid half on—though we think there is nothing like a cloth—-to swell and dry. The rice may bo left for an hour or two, or it may be got ready some time in advance, as it can be re-heated by putting it between two soup plates over a saucepan of boiling water, and will take but a few minutes. In order that this may present a nice appearance, it is very necessary that all discoloured grains be picked out. We may mention that we have seen directions for soaking rice for two hours before boiling it for curry; but straight from the washing water to the cooking pot is the motto of the majority, and that wo have found to be the best. For rice that is to soak up the liquid, the soaking is advisable, but not when dryness is to be the main feature. Rice Border for Hot Sa- vouries.—There are many ways of making these borders; somo of them are very troublesome, for which written instructions would be of little use, and others are far from economical; we give, therefore, such as may be prepared by any intelligent cook, and which are as little trouble as is consistent with tho class of dish. First wash and blanch the rice, which should be best Carolina; put it to boil in white stock, adding a quart to a pound of rice; put in two ouncos of butter, and cover the rice with a buttered paper; a copper stew- pan is best, tho heat is more evenly sustained. Cook softly, adding moro stock now and then, but by the time the rice is dono, it must all be absorbed and the rice dry; it is a good plan to take off the lid and paper towards tho end of the cooking, for if the rice is left wet, the dish is sure to be a failure. Then pound it or sievo it, or beat it to a paste with a large wooden spoon. Supposing a pound of rice to havo been used, add the yolks of four eggs, and a little suitable seasoning; for instance, if for a delicate mince of poultry or fish, the seasoning must be adapted to it; if for a dark mince, a brown stock (such as Nos. 6, 7, or 8) should be used for cooking the rice, and the seasoning may be in increased proportion. When tho rice and eggs are cool, take a border mould, round or561 CEREALS. oval, plain or fancy, as required, or as convenient. It must be most carefully buttered in every part; tlie best way is to put in some clarified butter, and turn the mould round and round, and then pour out all the spare butter; then dip a paste-brush in the butter, and go over the mould in every part; by treating the mould as first described, the cornel's get a fair share of the butter. Press the rice in, and bake as long as is necessary to give a golden brown surface and to make it firm enough to turn out. The moulds are shown in the chapter on Garnishes. l!ut it may happen that a mould is not available; then take two cake-tins, one, say, 7, and the other 5 inches in diameter. By putting one inside the other, and filling the space with the rfce, a border an inch wide is obtained. The inside of the large tin, and the outside of the small tin, must bo buttered, and the inner tin must be carefully removed. For a wider border, the inner tin must be smaller. The quantity of rice given would be enough for a very large mould; but it will be a guide to proportions for a medium- sized one. Sometimes the mould is sprinkled with fine bread-crumbs after buttering, for brown dishes. All sorts of rich ragouts, minces, &c., are served in these borders. Rice Borders for Hot Sweets.—The mode of preparation is the same as the above, but milk is used in place of stock, and less butter is needed; it is a good plan to just butter the bottom of the pan to pre- vent the rice sticking. In place of four yolks, two whole eggs can bo used; the border should be more delicately baked for this. Sometimes the rice is left in the mould to set, then, after turning out, is brushed over with wann butter, and baked on a copper sheet. In this way it can be watched, and as soon as hot through and dark enough, it should be served. The various uses of this are given in later chapters. Rice, Browned. —This is the dish referred to many times in this work; it is appetising in appearance as well as taste. Patna rice, boiled as for curry, is wanted; it must be left to get cold. Then take a baking-tin and butter it a little, put the rice in a thin layer, and bake it in the oven to a golden brown, turning it about to colour equally. It must not get dry; but only as much butter as is needed to keep it from burning is to be used. This is admirably adapted for the class of dishes above referred to. If boiled in stock, the rice is nicer. Cost, about 4d. for a dish of half a pound. (See Kice Casserole below.) Rice Casserole.—This differs from a border by reason of its having a bottom, and, in some dishes, a lid also. The word means, as here used, a case. The rice is prepared as for a border, then a mould is filled with it; or a better way, because less wasteful, is to line the mould only, and put a piece of bread in to fill up the middle; more rice is put on the top, and a marie made with a fluted cutter if for a fancy mould, or with a plain one if a plain mould: the latter are the easier, though less effective. The part marked forms the lid when baked, and must be cut out with great care, and the bread removed. The hollow is then filled with a mince of some rich savoury kind. The rice is sometimes scooped out, so as to leave a very thin wall all round ; but it should always be fairly thick to start with, or is liable to break: it need not bo wasted, as there are endless ways of using it up. A very useful mould to use for casseroles is the one illustrated under Baised Pies in a later chapter, and the directions there 'given for the pies will enable the reader to apply it to this and other purposes; speaking broadly, we aro of opinion that a casserole is more difficult and less useful than a border of rice. If the cover is not put on, the top is generally garnished nicely; details given under Vol-au-Vents and other dishes in Pastry apply equally to this class of casserole. Rice a la Chicago,—Kcquircd •562 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. rice, seasoning, stock, and an onion ns below. Cost, about 5d. Take half a pound of good rice,wash it and pick out all faulty grains. Put a gallon of water in a saucepan, add a tablespoonful of salt and a large onion, previously scalded; then bring the water to the boil. Put the rice in a thin cloth, drop it cautiously in the saucepan to form a bag, but it must not touch the water. Put the lid on, which, as the edges of the cloth arc outside, will fit well. Let the water boil fast until the rice is tender, then turn it into a clean saucepan, and add a teaspoonful each of mixed mustard, grated horse radish, chopped parsley, and lemon juice. Chop the onion from the boiling water, add it with a gill of brown meat stock, thickened with a heaping teaspoonful of baked flour. Stir for a few minutes, pile on a hot dish, and send to table with beef or veal. Wo call attention to this recipe, as it is a very good way of cooking the rico, which is practically steamed; thus prepared, it is very handy for con- version into rice cakes and other little snacks ; or the rice can go to table as a Bwcet or savoury. In the first case no addition beyond salt must be made to the water. This method hails from Chicago. Rice, Curried.—For a plain dish, the rice may be boiled to absorb the stock (See Rice, Boiled Plainly) ; to each pint or so, after coolring, add a fried onion and a teaspoonful of curry paste or powder (see Curries), and simmer for a short time. For a better dish, take rico boiled for curry, and mix it with a small quantity of Curry Sauce ; it should not be sloppy—the rice is only to be moistened; a bay leaf can be boiled in it. For a really rich dish, any of the adjuncts given in the recipes for curries of meat, &c., may bo put in. Cost, from -Id. to 8d. for a dish of half a pound. Note.—Almost any cereal or macaroni may be curried thus. Rice a la Custard.— Required : rice, stock, butter, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about Gd. This is a good dish to serve with cutlets; it is equally nice with braised or boiled poultry or meat. Use the best Carolina rice, and cook it in veal stock; allow a pint to four ounces to begin with; cover with a buttered paper, and let the rico cook slowly. More stock may be wanted, but by the time the rice is done it should be almost dry, and swollen to the fullest extent. Take the cover from the pan, and lay a soft cloth over the rice for a few minutes; then add an ounce of butter, a dust of cayenne and salt, a morsel of ground mace and a little white pepper. Have ready the yolks of two eggs and half a gill of thick cream, heated together ; add them, and stir carefully with a fork just to blend the ingredients, but avoid breaking the rico. Serve at once. This is also a first-class dish for separate service ; it should then be flavoured with choose and garnished with croutons. Rice a la Custard, with Ham. —Required: rice as above, white sauco, ham or bacon, toast or fried bread, or any green vegetable. Cost varies with the adjuncts. This is a tasty luncheon dish. Pre- pare the rico as above, but add a little thick white sauce in place of half the cream, so that the mixture is a trifle firmer. Have some small square slices of ham, it must be hot, and the pieces cut thinly, and all lean; a boiled or braised ham is best, or a piece of lean bacon does as well. Put a pile of the rico mixture in tho middle of each piece, about a dessert- spoonful, take the four comers up, and join them at the top by means of tiny plated skewers. !Sot tho dish over boiling water for a minute or two, then serve on squares of dry toast or fried bread; or, if preferred, on a green puree. Rice Cutlets, Plain. — Re- quired : five ounces of rice, seasoning to taste, a little fat bacon or butter, anCEREALS. 5G3 egg, and some liread-crumbs. Cost, about od. The rico should bo boiled and dried as if for curry, then mixed when cool with the seasoning and fat; of the latter, a teaspoonful will be enough; if bacon, scrape it; if butter, melt it; a very little thickened stock is better liked by some, and serves the same purpose. Add the white of the egg, and mould the mass into cutlet shapes. Or spread out on a flat dish imtil cold, and cut out with a cutlet cutter. Beat the yolk of the egg with a tablespoonful of milk, flour the cut- lets, then egg them, and coat with the crumbs. Fry them brown, and serve with little dishes of meat or fish. The zest may be increased by adding herbs, a morsel of fried onion, curry powder, and various other flavourers. Rice Cutlets, Rich. (See re- cipe above.)—Use the whole of an egg in mixing the cutlets, and moisten the preparation with a little thick brown sauce. Let it stand for a few hours before shaping, then egg the cutlets, and coat them with crumbs or crushed vermicelli. Fry golden brown, and serve in a ring, with fried parsley in the centre. Cost, about 8d. If for a separate dish, add the re- mains of any cooked game, or meat of any sort; many recipes are given for minces under their respective headings, which will be found suitable. They must not be made too soft, or may break in the frying. A sauce or gravy of the brown kind should be served with these. Any of the rich prepara- tions of rice, that are stiff enough to shape when cold, can be used for cut- lets; or bread-crumbs may be stirred in to bring the mixture to the desired consistence. Rice and Egg Stew. — Re- quired : milk, stock, eggs, butter, and seasoning. Cost, about Od. This is a very good ina'ujrc dish of French origin ; it furnishes an excellent dinner for children. It is served in soup plates. Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and put it on to boil in cold milk and vegetable stock, a pint of each. Cook until the liquid is nearly dried up, then add a seasoning of salt and pepper, an ounce of butter, and a grate of nutmeg. Finish the cooking, take the pan from the fire, and beat in two raw eggs. The rice will take about an hour and a half, and should resemble rice pudding in con- sistence. A carrot or an onion can bo cooked and chopped, and added before serving. By thinning with more stock a nice soup is obtained. We are acquainted with a practical Frenchwoman who often uses bran water in the preparation of such dishes as the above. The hint may be of service to those who do not despise anything on account of its cheapness, as so many unfortunately do. Rice and Egg Stew, with Onions.—This is a light and nourish- ing dish for any meal. It is recom- mended to sufferers from insomnia, as a good “ night-cap.” Make a stew as above, and for the proportions there given allow a pound or so of boiled Spanish onions. They should be out up if large. Put them on a hot dish, and pour the stew all over them. This is varied sometimes by the addition of a dash of grated cheese. A layer of thick celery sauce or puree can be used instead of the onions. Rice Favourites.—Required: rice, white sauce, ham, tomato pulp, seasoning, vegetables, cream, and pars- ley as below. Cost, about 2s. per dozen cases. Take some rice boiled as for curry: add as much rich white sauce of any kind as will make it moist; it should be about as thick as ordinary bread sauce. Grease some small china cases, oval or round, and lay in some strips of hot boiled ham, seasoned rather highly with French mustard, cayenne, and a morsel of chutney. These are to be so placed that they stand up above the edge of the case. Fill with the rico. Over the tops pour a tea- spoonful of sauce, made by mixing cream and tomato pulp, equal parts,UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 564 and colouring it a pale pink. Between this sauce and the strips of ham put a narrow ring of any cooked white vegetable, cut in shreds, and moistened with cream ; celery or French turnips answer as well as any; or hard white of an egg does equally well. Dust this with coralline pepper, and the pink sauce with tiny sprigs of fried parsley. This is a good second-course dish ; it should be garnished with fried parsley. Any sort of Italian paste may be similarly served. Rico Finryers a la Dijon.— Required: rice, milk, butter, cream, eggs, sauce, meat, crumbs, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 4d., exclusive of sauce or gravy. Put a quarter of a pound of blanched Carolina rice into a stewpan with threo gills of milk, a bay leaf, and an ounce of butter. Cover with a buttered paper, and simmer softly for an hour or more ; the rico must be dry, and the milk absorbed. Then stir in half a gill each of cream and Supreme Sauce. Add the yolks of three eggs, and beat the mixture well. Take the pan from the fire, stir in a tablespoonful each of braised sweetbread, cooked ham, and any game or poultry, all in shreds. Season nicely, and turn out to cool on a flat dish, well buttered. It must bo spread evenly. When cold, cut it in fingers, coat with egg and crumbs, and fry nicely. Serve in a pile, and send a tureen of good brown gravy or sauce to table. Rice G&teau, Rich.—This is prepared as described above; the difference consisting in the strength of the stock and the number of eggs. Take a pint of rice after cooking and cooling, and add the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, with a good season- ing of salt and pepper, with a dust of cayenne, and any nice horb mixture. (See the chapter on Seasonings.) Then beat up the whites of two eggs to a froth, and incorporate them lightly. If for a separate dish, put in four ounces of minced gamo or poultry, previously cooked; prepare the mould as directed, and cook gently. A ladle- ful of Brown Sauce improves the mixturo. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour gravy or sauce round it. Stocks 4 or 5, or either of the richer ones, can be used for this. Cost, about Is. Rice Gateau, Savoury.—Re- quired : rice, stock, an egg, seasoning, meat or bacon, and bread-crumbs as below. Cost, about 5d. This recipe is for a very cheap dish ; but it will bo found a tasty accompani- ment to a dish of meat, or can be served alone. First boil some rice in any weak stock until soft and the liquid is absorbed (see Rice, Boiled Plainly). Supposing a pint of rice, which will make a good-sized dish ; mix with it, after it has cooled, a raw egg, well beaten, salt, and pepper, with any other seasoning, about a gill of bread-crumbs, and a morsel of fat bacon in tiny dice ; or cold fat meat answers. Beat the whole well together. A nicer gateau is to be had by using another egg, and reducing the crumbs by half. Prepare a plain round or oval cake tin, by greasing it very thoroughly and coating it with bread-crumbs. Or it can be greased, and strips of bread, cut to fit the tin, bo put round it. If this is done, the bread must be dipped in warm liquid fat of some kind. Nearly fill the tin with the mixture, level the top, and bake in a modorate oven for about half an hour. It should be a nice brown, and slip easily from the tin. Sauce or gravy may be put over or round it. For separate service, any odds and ends of meat or fish may be put in the mixture. Rice ala Lncknow.—Required: rice, butter, onions, meat, and season- ing. Cost, about 8d., exclusive of meat or other adjunct named. Put four ounces of blanched Carolina rice in a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, a bay leaf, and half a pint of the liquor from a boiled fowl or rabbit. Lay a buttered paper oyer and coo]v for an hour and •> half, addingcereals, 565 more liquid as required. Season it with pepper, salt, and a pinch of ground coriander and cloves. Put this in heaps round a hot dish. Fry some onions iu dice to a nice brown, and add a good seasoning of Lucknow Chutney. (<S« the chapter on Pkki.es.) Put a little in between the heaps of rice; the precise quantity of onions used is a matter of taste. Fill in the centre math a pile of Browned Rice. This is a tasty dish for serving alone, or with meat. It forms an excellent medium for the re-serving of cold meat, game or poultry ; a small quan- tity of either can be cut in dice, and mixed with a little thick brown gravy or sauce that may be left over from the dish, then piled over the centre. Rice a la Lymphe.—Prepare the rice as in the recipe for Rice a la Custard, but use a brown stock instead of white, and in place of cream add a mixture of sherry and brown sauce; the other materials are the same. Put this in a fire-proof china dish, and level the surface: garnish the edge with a puree of flageolets (nee Veoe- taiiles), then put a ring of sieved egg yolk; go on thus until the centre is reached. Heat hefore serving. This is a very dainty dish. Cost, from Is. upwards. Rice, Moulded.—This is a very plain dish, often liked in hot weather. Allow a pint of milk to a quarter of a pint of well-washed rice ; cook together for an hour and a half or so, then flavour and sweeten to taste, and pour into a damp mould to set. Turnout, and serve like the Rice Snowballs. The cheapest rice may be used for this if well washed. Cost, about 3d. Rice and Pickle Stew.—The dish may be made mild or very piquant, as desired. The foundation consists of rice cooked as for Rice and Egg Stew; to this is added,a short time before dish- ing, some finely minced mixed pickles; they may be clear or thick. The eggs must be put in first, and the pickles warmed in a little stock; the stew must not be allowed to boil again. About three good tublespoonfuls of cooked moat are also wanted ; the most suitable being calf's or pig’s head, or calf’s or cow’s foot. Tripe is often used in the same way; a morsel of ham or bacon is a welcome addition. This is completo in itself, but a tureen of onion sauce can be served with it. If a really substantial meal bo re- quired, increase either of the meats above-named to a pound; cut it up neatly, and pour the rice over. Rice Rings, Savoury. (Sec the recipes for Rice Cutlets.)—Make the mixture for these in the same manner; it should be spread on a tin to the thickness of a little less than half an inch, and, when cold, cut out with a round, crimped cutter, two inches in diameter; cut the centres out with a smaller cutter, leaving the lings half an inch wide. Finish off, and fry the rings the same as the cut- lets. They may be used for garnishing a dish of mince or hash; or can bo filled with any nice mince of fish, or any kind of meat; or forcemeat balls may be put in the centre; so may the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, coated with a good sauce: in fact their uses are numerous, as they Clin take tho place of croutons in all sorts of savouries, the seasoning of the rico being regulated by the filling of the rings. A particularly pretty savoury is made by making three mixtures : one of rich egg sauce ; one of brown meat or game with brown sauce ; and a third with a white mince, moistened with parsley or any other green sauce. After filling, arrange the rings round a dish, for the three colours to contrast nicely, and put in tho centre the small rounds that were cut out. They are to be fried like the rings. Either of the three mixtures should be put in a thin layer on the dish before the rounds are piled on it. This can le served as an ontrfio. Rice Snowballs. — Supposing sweet snowballs are wanted, the pre- paration given for Rice, Moulded,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 5G6 may be poured into little cups or deep patty-pans and turned out when cold. They are best with simple custard or some jam or stewed fruit. For a cheap savoury, take some rice that has been boiled until nearly done ; spread it on small cloths, and put a little cold meat seasoned and just moistened with thick gravy in the middle. Draw the rice round and tie to form a ball, then steam or boil until the rice is done. Turn on to a dish, and pour plain White Sauce over. Eiics a la Soeur. — Required: rice, fish stock, haddock, eggs, cheese, butter, and seasoning. Cost, 7d. to 3d. Boil six ounces of rice as if for curry, but in white fish stock instead of water. Let it dry well. Add to it two ounces of butter, and a seasoning of salt, popper and nutmeg. Take half a pound of dried haddock that lias been cooked in any way preferred, but it should not be dried up, and a fleshy fish is wanted. {See recipes under Haddock.) Tear the fish into flakes, and add with it the whites of two hard- boiled eggs, chopped up. Pile this on a dish that will stand the oven, sieve the egg yolks, and mix them with an equal bulk of grated choose, Parmesan for choice; coat the pilo with this, pour a little oiled butter over, and heat the dish in a sharp oven ; the surface should be a nice brown. It will be found an excellent dish for any meal, and if prepared in advance, it may be heated over boiling water before putting it to brown; this prevents dryness, which is to be guarded against. Elce, Steamed.—If a potato steamer is to bo used, proceed as follows Spread at the bottom either a piece of muslin or a thin cloth, then put the rice in an even layer; the thinner the layer the quicker it will cook. Have the water well salted and keep it boiling fast. Turn tho rice about if the layer is thick, that the top may get equally cooked. Any sort of rice will cook in this way, and will take from an hour to two, in proportion to the quantity and kind. It is a very convenient as well as economical method, as a pudding, or anything of a mild flavour, can be boiled under it, and the rice will be perfectly cooked. Eice a laTremain.—Required: an onion, gravy, jelly, wine, eggs, croutons, rice, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. or 8d., exclusive of eggs and gravy. Chop a medium-sized onion, fry it as dark as possible without burning; then stir to it, after draining tho-fat off, half a pint of gravy, made by boiling down the bones of any cooked game. Stir in half a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of black currant jelly, and a bit of glaze the size of a nut. Simmer for ten minutes and rub through a hair sieve. Take as much Browned Rich as will fill a half-pint measure, pile it on a dish, pour the sauce over, and mix lightly together with two forks. Have ready four boiled eggs, plovers’ or pheasants’, quarter them, and put round the base; sprinkle the top with small dice-shaped croutons, and servo as a savoury. The gravy should be well seasoned. Eice a la Turque.—Required : rice, butter, an onion, raisins, lemon, stock and seasoning. Cost, about 7d. to 9d. Take a pint of Browned Rice while still warm; this will make a good- sized dish. Chop and fry a good-sized onion a delicate brown in two ounces of butter; turn the rice in the pan with it, and stir well that the butter may coat the rice ; add salt and pepper and a dash of nutmeg, a chopped capsicum and the. seeds, a teaspoonful of glaze dissolved in stock, and a couple or three ounces of sultana raisins that have been stewed in a little stock, and cut through. Turn out and garnish with strips of limo or lemon. This may go to table with any highly-seasoned meat dish, and may be served instead of plain rice with a curry; it is also excellent with fish stews of tho piquant brown sort.CEREALS. 507 Another variation of this consists in adding the lime to the x-ico and using the raisins for garnishing. E.ice-flour. -— This is a superior fonn of ground rice; it is very white and fine, and is a most useful prepara- tion. It is adapted for gruel and other invalid dishes; also for cakes, pastry, biscuits, &c.; while for the thickening of white soups, and all sorts of vege- table stews, &c., it is excellent. It has the further advantage of cooking-very quickly. It costs but a trifle more than ground i-ice—about 4d. per pound is the average ; the French preparation, Crime tie Hi;, costs from fld. to Is. per pound. In addition to the following, recipes for the use of rice-flour are given in various other sections. Rice-flour Porridge. — lic- quii-ed : xiee-floui-, milk, sugar, &e., as below. Cost, about 3d. to 4d. This is a good breakfast dish for children, and may be made sweet or savoury. For the first, take three ounces of rice-flour, and mix it smoothly with cold water or milk to a paste. Add a pint of boiling milk by degrees, stirring all the time; pour into a clean saucepan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. Unless a double pan is used it must be stirred all the time, as it bums quickly. Sen- e with milk and sugar, or treacle or a little honey is as good, or better. Some will prefer this made with water, with an accompaniment of stewed fruit. Ground rice can be used in the same way: but it takes nearly as long again to cook, and two or two and a half ounces to the pint of liquid will be sufficient. Ground rice is generally sold loose, while rice-flour is in packets, and is on that account much cleaner. Risotto. -This is a dish to be had in perfection in Italy; there are various ways of preparing it, most of which are vei-y tasty and much liked. It is a famous dish for the commencement of dinner in the place of soup, though it may be eaten at any meal. The following recipes will illustrate the different sorts of l-isotto. Risotto, Austrian.—Wash four ounces of rice and boil until done ; pour the water off, and wash the i-ice in cold water. Drain it, and put in a pan with a couple of ounces of fat or butter and two ounces of grated Parmesan; when the cheese hisses, serve with melted butter over it. Cost, about 5d. Another wni/.—Tiiis is very nice. Put some marrow in a saucepan, and before it is quite hot add some shredded onion and chopped parsley. Then put in some raw veal in dice, and cook until done. Wash and drain some i-ice and add it with enough stock to prevent burning, then cook until the rice is done; it should not he stirred ; flavour to taste with grated Parmesan, stir then for a few- minutes, and servo on a vex-y hot dish. The precise proportions of the several materials are here left to the discretion of tho cook; but we think that the dish will he liked best if only enough maxTOw to cook the veal ho used; tho rice may he double the amount of meat, and the stock may be increased in proportion to the consistence desix-cd. Risotto, Italian.—Required: an ounce of butter, a small onion, from two to three ounces of rice, a pinch each of saffron and nutmeg, about a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan, aud half a pint of any nico stock. The onion is cut up iinely and fried in the butter to a yellow coloux-, the washed rice goes next, and, if a thick dish is liked, tho full quantity above named may he used; it should ho stirred rapidly for a few minutes ; tho stock goes next, and the rice is left to cook until swollen and tender. After seasoning, it is ready to servo. This is risotto for one person, as served abroad. Cost, about 3d. Another way.—This is a more sub- stantial dish. Tho onions are fried in a mixture of marrow and butter; tho fat is then drained off and the rice put in and stirred for a short time; about568 universal cookery rook. half a pound of rice to four ounces of fat will answer. The onions can bo put back if liked. Some good stock to cover goes next (it should be fast boiling) ; when the rice is about half done, sliced sausages and chopped mushrooms are to bo added, with salt, and saffron to make the whole a rich yellow. By the time it is ready to serve it should be a thick stew. Butter is put in last thing for a rich dish; and cheese is added or handed with the dish. Any nice sausages may be used for this; they are to be first partially cooked. Cost, about Is. Risotto, to serve with Fish. —Cook the rice on the principle de- tailed above, using a mixture of stock and tomato conserve for the purpose. A morsel of onion should be fried in the butter at starting, and a bunch of herbs is an improvement. Season nicely and colour a pale pink. Any white fish with sauce, left over from a previous meal, may be divided and put in the centre or round the rice ; or small fillets of fresh fish may be cooked with it. Lobster coral is the best colouring, and the addition of cheese is quite optional. Cost, uncertain. Saffron Rice.—Required : half a pint of rice, a pint and a half of milk, or weak white stock, or the two may be mixed ; a teaspoonful of salt, half as much white sugar, an ounce of chopped onion, cayenne to season, and enough saffron to give a rich yellow tinge. Cost, about 6d. Blanch the rice (see page 538), and cover it with the stock; bring it to the boil very slowly, then add the rest of the ingredients, with a morsel of butter. Cook softly until the rice is done, and the moisture absorbed, then turn out for use. In the event of this being required as an adjunct to any fish dish, use a fish stock in preparing it. If to go to table with a curry (with which it is very good), use the same sort of stock the curry is made with. It forms alone a nice dish in warm weather; but various additions are admissible — such, for instance, as chopped ham or tongue, scraps of poultry, cold meat with a little stuffing, or the remains of any tasty fish snack: in fact, it can be varied in dozens of ways. For a vegetarian dish, use water, milk, or stock No. 11 or 12. Saffron Rice Cakes.—Prepare the rice as above directed; take half a pint, after it has cooled, add a tablespoon- ful of grated ham, a little powdered bay leaf and mustard, a gill of thick sauce, and a well-beaten egg. Then mix in by degrees as many fried bread- crumbs as will make the mixture firm enough to shape into cakes ; they may be round or oval, about a quarter of an inch thick. Brush them over with raw ogg, and coat them with fine white bread-crumbs, then fry them a delicate brown. Cost, about 8d. The flavouring can be varied by adding cold fish or chopped pickles instead of ham ; vermicelli may take the place of crumbs for the exterior ; and, for a cheaper dish, the white of the egg can be reserved for the coating. Saffron Rice Sausages. — Shape the foregoing mixture into small sausages, and cither fry them, or brown them in a quick oven, or before the fire. They are a nice addition to a breakfast dish of bacon or eggs. They are also suitable for serving with liver or kidneys. The rice is sometimes moulded in the form of tiny cottage loaves, and served as Saffron Rice Loaves. Sago.—This is obtained from the sago palm. It is a starchy food, and from a nutritive point is not to be compared with semolina, or any foods made from nitrogenous grain. At the same time, sago is a useful and generally liked food; it is a popular thickening medium for soups, vegetable stews, and many similar dishes, and is considered light and easy of digestion. Sago absorbs the fluid in which it is cooked, and becomes soft and trans- parent, but retains its shape. There are several kinds—small or pearl, medium, and large or bullet sago ; forCERKALS. 569 general purposes the first-named is tlie most useful. Sago must be well washed; it should be rubbed between the hands, and the water changed several times. Cost, from 2d. to 3d. per pound. Sago meal is imported into this country, and used for the foundation of custard powder and other articles manufactured on a large scale. In this form it can only be distinguished from arrowroot by microscopic examination. For various dishes from sago, see Index. Sago, Moulded.—This is simple, but very nice with stewed fruit, or a sweet sauce. Put four ounces of washed sago into a saucepan that has been rubbed at the bottom and sides with a bit of butter; add a quart of cold milk, stir to the boil, and cook for an hour and a half. Sago burns very quickly, and if no double pan be handy, watchfulness and frequent stirring are needed. Beat in the yolk of a raw egg off the fire, then pour into a damp mould or basin, and turn out when cold. If preferred without fruit or sauce, the sago must be sweetened; for the sake of economy the egg can be left out. Cost, about 5d., exclusive of sauce or fruit. Semolina.—This highly nutritious cereal is made from wheaten flour of the best kinds. There are two sorts— the white and the yellow, the latter being considered the best. In appear- ance semolina is similar to hominy, but is less rough and cooks in a shorter time. It is admirably adapted for in- valid dishes of all sorts; and for general purposes it can be used like hominy ; it is added to many kinds of soups, both meat and vegetable. Cost, about 3d. per pound, or, for the best Genoa, 4d. (See Index for other dishes.) Semolina Mould, Savoury.— Required : semolina, milk, liver, ham, mushrooms, eggs, cheese, crumbs, seasoning, and sauce as below. Cost, about 10d., exclusive of sauce. Cook in a jar or saucepan, two ounces of semolina and a pint of milk for an hour. (See the recipes under Hominy.) Draw the pan from the fire, and add a tablespoonful of calf’s liver that lias been fried and minced, the same measure of fried mushrooms, and two ounces of grated ham. Season with salt nnd pepper, and a pinch of cayenne and mace. Add half a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and the yolks of two raw eggs; beat hard for a few minutes; then stir in the whites, whipped to a froth. Grease a plain mould, coat it with bread-crumbs, and pour the mixture in—the mould being only two-thirds filled. Bake until the top is firm and a golden-brown colour; about twenty minutes. Turn out care- fully on to a hot dish, and brush over with thin glaze; pour Brown Sauce round, and serve for luncheon or dinner. This is a very good dish; for another variety, omit the cheese, and add any remnants of cooked game. The mould may be surrounded with braised mushrooms or tomatoes (see Dressed Vegetables), and the sauce or gravy, such as would be served with game, sent to table in a boat. Semolina Mould, Sweet.— Use threo ounces of semolina to a pint and a half of milk; the grain should be very carefully washed and looked over for this. Cook as above, add an egg, after it has cooled a little, with any essence to flavour, and white sugar to sweeten, about an ounce. Pour into a damp mould, and turn out when cold. Serve with jam or fruit. Cost, fid. or (id., exclusive of adjuncts. Sparghetti.—This is a form of macaroni, thread or taper-shaped, in- stead of pipe-shaped. It is served at the commencement of dinner in Italy, and the ways of preparing it are many. A very simple one is to boil it in slightly salted water or plain stock, then to turn it into thedish for serving, and mix with each quarter pound a tablespoon- ful or more of grated Parmesan cheese. This is tossed lightly but quickly, until the cheese molts and has a cobwebby appearance; or, to use tho collect term, until it “spins.” About as much tomato conserve ns chocso is then stirred in, and the dish served at once.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 570 The addition of a hint of garlic is common in Italy. Sparghetti with Eggs.—Re- quired : sparghetti, eggs, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. id. Roil tho sparghetti as above, and allow six hard-boiled eggs to half a pound. Turn tho sparghetti into tho dish, and pour over it half a pint of sauce; this may be plain white, parsley, onion, celery, caper, or tomato. The eggs may bo sliced, and put over the sauce, or tho whites can bo cut up and put in the sauce, and the yolks cut through and used for garnishing. This is a substantial dish, calculated to reduce tho butcher’s bill, and is almost sure of a welcome by reason of its novelty. Sparghetti with Tomato Rolls.—Required : stock, sparghetti, cream, cheese, butter, and rolls as below. Cost, about lOd. to Is., exclusive of the rolls. This dish is particularly recom- mended to those in search of a delicious and novel dish of tho kind. Boil half a pound of sparghetti in any white stock from poultry or meat. When done, lay it in a stewpan and pour half a gill of cream and the same measure of the stock it was boiled in over it. Cover, and let it absorb this; mean- while get ready the rolls, about half a dozen (see the recipe for Tomato Rolls, Italian, in Dressed Vegetables). Take a second pan, slice into it two ounces of any rich English cheese, and the same weight of grated Parmesan, and butter; pour in a gill of tho stock from the sparghetti, and shake the pan —do not stir the contents—until all the ingredients are well blended. Pour this over the sparghetti in a dish as hot as possible, and servo at once. The rolls are to be placed round the sparghetti. Note.—For savouries of this sort, a hot-water dish is an almost indispens- able adjunct. Steam-cooked Cereals. — There are a large number of foods to bo had, which are said by the makers to require very little further cooking; and as the number is likely to increase, a few words on their uses and treat- ment may be acceptable. First we would say that, as a rule, they are im- proved by longer cooking than the makers direct; especially so far as various preparations of wheat, maize, barley, and oatmeal are concerned; but it should be understood that we are for the moment referring to the whole or coarsely-ground cere;ds, not any in the fine state. By the longer cooking here advised, the grain has a better flavour, and is more digestible. Such foods arc very useful when required in a hurry, and the time needed for tho cooking of the ordinary cereals cannot bo given. Some of the American articles of this kind aro excellent. Then there arc fancy or manufactured foods of tho same kind in an endless variety; some of these are very nourishing; others are more starchy, and less valuable for nutrition, but aro easily and quickly converted into various tasty dishe3, both savoury and sweet. (Sec Index.) Tapioca.—This is of the same nature as sago, and our remarks with respect to the uses and nutriment of that food apply equally here. The cost is about the same, and the best kinds are the cheapest in use, as they are much more satisfactory, however cooked. For invalids’ cookery, or any dish of a very delicate nature, the French tapioca is recommended (see French Cereals, page 545). The store jar containing tapioca must be well covered, as it is liable to the attacks of insects. In washing it, throw away all floating grains. (See Index for other dishes from tapioca.) Tapioca, Baked. — Put three pints of cold water in a greased jar, add a little salt and six ounces of tapioca, and leave to soak for a few hours. Then bake it in the oven, which can hardly be too slow, for at least three hours. It should be of a thick jelly-like consistence. Prepared in this way, many uses will be found for it, as it will keep for several days andCEREALS. 01 1 only requires re-heating. This should he done hv setting tho jar in another of boiling water over the lire. It is also very handy as a base for savoury stews, by adding vegetables and seasoning, the recipe under Barley.) Tapioca with Cheese Sauce. —Take a pint of tapioca as abovo ; add while hot a little celery salt, pepper to taste, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir in an ounce of butter, and make the whole hot. Turn it out, and pour a pint of Cheese Sauce over it. The appearance is improved by dredging wTith bread- crumbs and grated cheese, and browning it in the oven. Cost, about 6d. to Sd. Tapioca with Cheese and Tomatoes.—This is a nice supper dish. Halve some medium-sized toma- toes, and spread them thickly with tapioca as above. Sprinkle with crumbs and cheese, and put a morsel of fat of some kind on each half. Cook in a sharp oven, and pour cheese sauce round them. Another way.—Bake the tomatoes, plain or savoury (see Vegetables) ; when done, lay a thin slice of cheese on each, and as soon as it has melted— after a minute in the oven—cover with the tapioca; sprinkle with browned crumbs and grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. Cost, from Id. to 2d. each inclusive, according to size. Vegetarian Brawn. — Re- quired; a pound of pipe macaroni, half a pound of tomatoes, two ounces of cheese, an ounce each of corn-flour and barley-flour, six eggs boiled hard, two raw eggs, a teaspoonful of sage and parsley mixed, a tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, salt and pepper, and half a pint of water. Cost, about Is. 9d. First boil the macaroni, cut it in half-inch lengths, and put it in a sancepan. Pour half a pint of the water from it, boiling, over the toma- toes. Then sieve them to leave skins and pips behind. Add them with tho water to the macaroni in the saucepan. Then chop a large onion, or a few stalks of celery, according to taste— either must be cooked ; add it with the grated cheese and the other seasonings, and stir to tho boil; then mix in the thickenings and boil for a few minutes, stirring all tho time. Take the pan from the fire, and add the raw eggs gradually, boating hard; they must first bo well beaten and strained. Take a basin or mould, and add tho hard eggs to the mixture, either in slices or dice; when cool, fill tho mould and set it in a cold place for at least ten hours, then turn out and garnish with green salad or parsley. Brawng of this sort are varied in many ways; curry powder or paste can take tho place of ketchup; boiled white haricots, ground or split, may bo used instead of some of the macaroni; lentil flour can be used for the thicken- ing ; hut the above is very nice,, both to look at and to eat. A further im- provement is effected by using a good vegetable stock instead of water, and flavouring with a good store sauce and a dash of chutney. Vegetarian Haggis. — Re- quired : onions, oatmeal, seasoning, herbs, wheat, lentil flour, bread, eggs, milk, and potatoes. Cost, about 8d. Allow a pound of Spanish onions, a teaspoonful of powdered sage, half as much parsley, a teaspoonful of salt and half as much pepper, to four ounces of coarse oatmeal, two ounces of crushed wheat, and one ounce of lentil flour.. Chop the onions, put them into a bowl with the other ingredients, then add two eggs and half a pint of milk, or half may be vegetable stock; thuse should be beaten well first. Then add two ounces of brown bread-crumbs, and beat hard. Put the mixture in a plain tin mould, basin shape, drop into boiling water, and keep it boiling for three hours. Servo with mashed potatoes. For a cheaper dish, leave an egg out, and add moro bread or an ounce of fine sago. Where oatmeal is much liked, the wheat can bo left out, an extra weight of oatmeal being used ; to vary tho flavour, add bay leaf or thyme in powder in place of sage. Those arc572 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. very cheap and substantial. In tying the cloth over the mould, leave room for swelling. Vegetarian Kedgeree.—Re- quired : half a pound of boiled split peas, half as much cooked rice, a little stock or milk, a seasoning of salt, pepper, ginger, and curry, half a pound of fried onions, and four hard-boiled eggs. Cost, about 8d. Mix the rice and peas, moisten with the milk or stock, season, and pile on a dish, and garnish with the -eggs and onions. Vermicelli.—This is a preparation of wheaten flour similar to macaroni, but very much thinner; it is in the form of long threads, and derives its name from its worm-like appearance. It is of Italian origin, and may be used either for sweet or savoury dishes, in the same way as macaroni. When required for clear soups, it should first be boiled for a minute or two in water, or it would cloud the soup ; it must then be added as soon as strained, us if left to cool it forms lumps, and cannot bo afterwards separated. This pre- caution must be observed whenever parboiling is necessary, let the liquid to which it is to be added be what it may. This is one of the most digestible of the farinaceous foods ; and is of great value in pieparing dishes for invalids. Cost, about 5d. to 7d or 8d. per pound. (■See recipes under Macaroni ; see also Index.) Vermicelli au 1 ait.—This is a simple but very nice dish; it may be served in place of porridge for break- fast, or instead of pudding for dinner ; and while good in itself, it is nicer with stewed fruit, or a sauce of any kind (see Sweet Sauces) . Spice can be added at discretion, and honey may be substituted for sugar. Blanch five ounces of vermicelli as above directed; drop it lightly into a quart of milk that is just on the point of boiling; stir until all is added, then simmer for about twenty-five minutes, a trifle more or less according to its quality, and serve in a hot dish. Use a double saucepnn if possible. Cost, about 6d. Wheat.—This is the cereal that is consumed in the largest quantities. It has been said that where wheat will grow, there it is grown; and that where people can get it, they will have it. The universal preference for wheat is attributed to the comparative ease with which it is separated from the husk, the large yield of flour from a given quantity of good wheat, and the fact of its containing all the elements necessary for the sustenance of man. The product of wheat is more abundant in countries that have a higher temper- ature than our own; it is cultivated here with difficulty. The origin of wheat is unknown. The terms red and white refer to the colour of the grain. By soft wheat, is meant the floury, tender sorts; by hard wheat, the firm horny kinds are indicated. The feeding value of the latter is much higher than the former; in the hardest sorts of all, used for Italian pastes, the nitrogenous matter is double the amount found in the softest specimens. In such, the starch is less in proportion; therefore, each has its special uses. It is estimated that there are over a hundred—some say nearer two hundred—varieties of wheat, though, in many cases, the difference is but trifling. The products of wheat in the shape of macaroni and allied substances may be dismissed here, being treated under their several headings. "We will, there- fore, confine ourselves to the con- sideration of wheat in the whole and crushed condition; and will try to simplify matters for the inexperienced, whoare sometimes, and not unnaturally, bewildered by the number of names that are bestowed upon the variou3 patent and other preparations of wheat. First, the whole grain; this has but few uses in the kitchen; we use the term whole, though, in most cases, the extreme outer coat of bran is removed. In some localities, the name of groats or grits is given to whole wheat, though strictly, we believe, such termsshould only be applied to oats. Next in degree of fineness, we get cracked or crushed wheat; this is commonly used for Porridge and other purposes. The ways of milling are now numerous, and some are very complicated; and it is due to these differences that the names above referred to are given to wheat: we may cite “rolled,” “fiaked,” “ crystals,” and “ cyclone ” as familiar instances. In decorticated wheat, the germ and exterior husk are removed; this is to be had in the coarse state as well as tine for bread, &c. In genuine whole meal the grain is only cleansed before grinding, the outside branny coat being ground up with it. A recently introduced article, known as “ germ flour,” differs from ordinary kinds by reason of the. return of the germ to it; it is first removed, and, by a patent process, so treated that it has no injurious effect on the flour—in ordinary' cases it does act injuriously on the flour, hence its removal—which is used for bread and kindred foods with a good deal of success. The various kinds of flour—viz., wheat in its finely-ground state—are detailed in other chapters. As to the best forms of wheat, as here considered, for ordinary uses the changes may', we think, be rung upon them with advan- tage ; for even if one could decide on the very best from a nutritive stand- point, change is beneficial; but more of this when we come to deal with Bread. Wheat with Fruit.—This is a dish of ancient origin. It goes now ay the name of “ Durham Pudding.” ft is made by baking wheat in water as below, until perfectly tender, »nd of the consistence of ordinary porridge. It is then put in saucers, hollowed in the middle, and filled in with any fruit that may be in season ; blackberries are a favourite ; they are stewed, and may bo hot or cold; the fruit is to be well sweetened, as no sugar i.s put in the wheat. A spoonful of cream is put on the top. In place of cream, some thickened milk may be used ; it is made by boiling a tablespoonful of corn-flour or rice-flour with a pint of milk, and adding the whole or the yolk only of an egg. But if cream can be had, itshouldbe used; it then makes a famous dish for the break- fast of delicate children; the benefit derived from cream is often very' great. Wheat Frumenty (or Fur- menty).—This is a very old- fashioned but nice and nourishing dish, if sufficient time be given to its preparation. Take as much wheat as may bo required, wash it well, then put it in a jar, and cover with cold water; leave it to soak for twelve hours, then bake it in a very slow oven until done. It should crack and be soft, but not be broken up; it may take from four to six hours. Some prefer to bake the wheat in milk, which makes it nicer and more nourishing, but it does not cook so well; another way, and a good one, is to use water for the first part of the cooking, and milk for the finish. When ready for the frumenty', take somo of the baked wheat, and allow for each quart the same measure of new milk; put both over the fire, and stir to the boil; add about a quarter of a pound of clean dry currants, or raisins, stoned and halved, and in about twenty minutes take the pan from the fire, and stir in sugar to taste and some spice (nutmeg or cinnamon is often used); then beat in a couple of eggs, or, where they' are plentiful, more may be used; do not boil again, but beat for some few minutes. This should be sent to table in a junket bowl, and served in cups. To rich dishes of this sort, in the day's when frumenty was a Lord Mayor’s dish, brandy was one of the ingredients. When whole wheat cannot bo got, cracked wheat may bo used. Wo may mention that other fruits are as nice as those named. For example, prunes, figs, dates, and dried bananas are very suitable; currants are not digestible, and are better omitted if for children; the raisins are improved by soaking for a few hours in water. Wheaten Porridge.—This canUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 574 be made in either of the ways already given for Oatmeal Porridge. About six ounces of wheat may be allowed to a quart of water or milk, and the porridge may bo served with the usual adjuncts. If cracked wheat is liked, give it two to three hours; decorticated, if finely ground, will be done in one hour. There are no nicer porridges than this ; it often agrees better than any other, and it is very cheap. (See Steam-cooked Cereals.) PULSE. Pulse is to the vegetarian what animal food is to the meat-eater. The composition is the first thing to grasp. How many have jumped to the conclusion that all pulse is bad and gives rise to discomfort, after a hearty meal of boiled haricots and roast beef; or of lentil soup, perhaps made with meat stock, and followed by a cut from a joint. There is no reason why beef and beans should not be eaten together in very moderate quantities; but it must be remembered that a plate of potatoes and a plate of pulse are two things in more than one sense. Potatoes are about three-fourths water; pulse is only an eighth, or a trifle over. Here, then, we have a highly concentrated food; the amount of nitrogenous matter is very large; and the addition of food of both the fatty and starchy kinds are necessary to make the dish complete, whether it is to form the sub- stantial part of a meal or only an adjunct. Unless this be done, the system will be burdened with an excess of flesh-forming material, as the heat-givers in pulse are disproportionate. Our highest authorities are of opinion that the nutriments rich in starch, sugar, and fat should go to table with pulso, or be amalgamated in the same dish. Lentils.—Those are generally agreed to bo the most, digestible of the class, though opinions differ, and some writers give the palm to haricots. A few years ago we made various experiments with the whole brown Egyptian lentils; the resulting dishes were rich in colour, but not altogether pleasing to the palate; and in a few instances they caused flatulence. We have since learned that in the skin a certain bitter prin- ciple exists; the prociso nature has not been determined, but it is this that gives rise to the discomfort. Besides this, in whole lentils, there is a lot of fibrous useless material, aud no small amount of dirt; so we dis- carded them for the same thing, practically, in a cleaner and more nutritious form, viz., split lentils. These are far moro generally approved; they are less trouble to clean, cook in a shorter lime, and are nicer in flavour. ..... Then there are the green, or German lentils. They aro higher in price, but so far as we have been able to ascertain, their superiority consists in their taking less time to cook ; and their colour, especially when heightened by a little green colouring, is favourable to their adoption for such dishes as are entitled to rank above the commonplace. Lentil I lour is a useful thickening medium for ordinary soups, stews, and the like ; it is also of value for invalid dishes. (See Index.) Haricot Beans.— White beans are Jhe best known and the cheapest. They are the dry mature bean of the plant whose pods we eat in the green575 PULSE. state as French beans ; including the various kinds of kidney and dwarf beaus that differ according to soil and locality, and aro distributed over a good part of Europe. The “giant” haricots gain preference at most tables ; but we prefer the small beans ; the skins are thinner, so they are more digestible, and the time required to cook them is more easily reckoned. It is quite possible to boil the “ giants ” for four or five hours before the desired softness is attained ; while a very good sample of the same beans might be done in little more than half the time. Split White Haricots are handy when time runs short, as they take less time than whole beans ; and in purees, and all such dishes, the final mashing is greatly facilitated by the splitting. Brown Beans'are about the same price as the white ; they make good soups and stews, but must be cooked long and slowly. Bed Haricots are rather dearer; their flavour is excellent, and in con- sequence of their rich colour they are valued for good soups. (See the recipe on page 60.) Green Beans, called Flageolets, are the highest in price ; they have thin skins and are of delicate flavour. In the hands of an intelligent cook their uses are legion ; they are admirably adapted for winter salads. These cost about fivepence per pound ; the other sorts range from two- pence to fourpence. If bought in quantities a saving is effected, but careful storage is of importance, pulse being readily attacked by insects. Peas.—These are familiar to most people in the shape of peas pud- ding ; a dish by no means to be despised when well cooked, and it is found to agree; but of the entire pulse tribe peas are, as a rule, the most difficult to digest. Split peas are preferable to whole ones, but for the majority, pea-flour or pea-meal is best of all. It should be freshly ground and stored in tins. (See (he third recipe for Peas Soup, page 57.) Lastly, a few words on dried green peas. These aro to be had both whole and split; the latter aro the more useful. The main difficulty is to get them all one sort; “ marrow-fats ” are the best; a reliable dealer should be applied to for them, for the mixing is a hindrance to successful cooking. When dishing-up time comes, it is a common experience to find half the peas green and mellow, and the rest a bad colour and of flinty hardness— all due to the mixing. We now turn to the initial treatment of pulse generally, and for the whole and split it is the same, and is simplicity itself if a little forethought be exercised, and just a few rules are observed. The first thing is the washing, and this is certainly some little trouble. To put peas or any other sort of pulse into water, and pour it off, is not washing and will not suffice. Lentils are the dirtiest of all as a rule. Plenty of water is wanted, and it must be renewed several times. The pulse should also bo rubbed between the hands until quite free from dirt. Renew the water until it comes away clean, then put the vegetables in a siove, or colander, under a running tap for a final rinse. The soaking should be from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to convenience ; use plenty of cold water, and if very hard add a morsel of borax or bicarbonate of soda. Do not use ordinary washing soda. When the time comes for the cooking, the soaking water should be thrown away, and with it all vegetables that float; they are gmb.ea'ten, therefore worthless. We may remark thatUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 570 oatmeal lias a very softeuiug effect ou pulse, and is, therefore, a good addition to the soaking water; a couple of ounces will serve for a pint of beaus and a couple of quarts of water. When used, increased attention to the rinsing is necessary. Concerning the cooking, as a rule, the water or stock should be cold when added; green peas and beans of the best kinds may be put in hot liquid, and as a natural consequence, the colour will be improved. Salt must not go in at first; it retards the cooking by hardening the skins ; a pinch of sugar is useful, so is a morsel of fat free from salt; it induce; softness and swelling, and improves the flavour. A woodeu spoon is the best for stirring ; au iron one tends to shrivel the vegetables; this is especially noticeable in beans. The slower the process the better, but the cooking should be continuous. And what of the residue in the shape of superfluous liquor ? We may take the case of a dish of beans to be served as a vegetable. If during the final stage of the cooking the water be allowed to evaporate, there will be little, if any, to strain off; but it is quite common to see a quart or more poured down the sink, carrying with it a good deal of nutriment ; so common in fact, that wc have ceased to regard it with surprise, only witli regret. To the thrifty Frenchwoman, who makes much of the liquor from boiled vegetables of all sorts, it seoms incredible that the wilful waste of such a valuable residue as pulse liquor can bo the rule in our country. One thing is certain: it is so useful for all sorts of purposes that, once tried, no intelligent housekeeper would willingly dispense with it. Beans, Haricot, Boiled.— ! This is a plain dish, suitable for serving with roast meat. AVash and soak the beans, put them on in cold water, add 1 a lump of dripping the size of an egg' i to the pound, and, when they have bogun to soften, a little salt and a few peppercorns; cook until dono (see remarks on page o7o), then add more seasoning to taste, and either put the beans in a hot vegetable dish, shaking them up with a little butter, or, what is by many considered the nicer way, put them on a dish with the joint, and some of the gravy. This is excellent if the joint bo a shoulder or nock of mutton, and a tureen of onion sauce is served with it. Cost, about 3d., without sauce. Another way.—Stir an ounce of butter and some chopped parsley, with seasoning to taste, into the beans, and shake the pan over the fire for a f6w minutes: add a squeeze of lemon juice, and 6crve in a dish. This way is popular; so cooked, tho beans go well with a hash or stew. For vege- tarians, oil or butter must replace the dripping used at first. A suspicion of garlic is added abroad to beans so cooked (see Garlic in Vegetables). Green or white beans may be cooked in either of these ways. Cost, from 4d. upwards, according to kind. Another way.—With white beans, boil soma small onions, or a little celery (whito part only), and serve with the beans. There may be about a fourth the bulk of either of these. Sometimes the water is poured off when the beans are nearly dono. and some hot milk is put in, with a thickening of Hour and butter. This is a delicate and delicious dish ; but the surplus water should be used for soup. In all the foregoing recipes, a plain meat stock, or a vegetable stock, can replace the water at starting,PULSE. 01 I just according to tasto and conve- nience. Beans, Haricot, Curried.— For an ordinary plain curry of white or green beans, follow the instructions given for Lentils. For brown or red beans, the stock used should be brown; it may, of course, bo a vegetable or a incut stock (see Stocks), and should be made more piquant than for the others ; fried onions are always suitably added to the beans at first, and it is a good plan to serve some rice cooked in a savoury manner with them. (See recipes under Rice ; for instance, Cckkied Rice or Saffron Rice would be suitable.) Cost, variable. A very simple way of making a curry of beans, when only a mild flavour is liked, is to dissolve some curry paste in boiling stock (brown or white) and stir into the beans ten minutes before serving. From a large teaspoonful to a dessertspoonful may be used to each pound of beans. Beans, Haricot, with Eggs and Black Butter.—Required: beans, eggs, seasoning, croutons, sauce, (cc.. as below. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. This is tasty. Boil half a pound of white or green beans (see preceding recipes), but omit any herbs; season with salt and pepper only. To each pound add six or eight eggs; they should be fried and trimmed (see Eggs), and laid round the beans. Prepare some Black Butter (see Hot Sauces), and pour some over each egg. Place a crouton in the centre of the jmlks (a tiny star or half-moon shape looks pretty), and serve hot. Beans, Haricot, with Eggs and Tomatoes.—Required : beans, eggs, tomatoes, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, from Is. upwards, if six eggs are used. Prepare the beans as above; to each pound add a gill of tomato pulp, just in time to get hot through; season nicely. Lay the eggs on, fried or poached; put between them a littlo pile of tomatoes which have been sliced and grilled, then cut in dice shapes (see Tomatoes). Pour a littlo Parsley Sauce round the white of the eggs; tako care not to smear the yolks. Tho combination of colours and flavours in this dish is very satisfactory. Caper sauce may be used instead of parsley. Note.—White beans are intended, and, after adding the tomato, put in a drop or two of colouring to give a pale pink tinge. Beans, Haricot, Fried.—One of the most tasty and popular ways of serving beans is in the style of the national cookery of Mexico, called “frijoles,” pronounced “fre-o-les.” The beans are boiled until soft; they should bo swollen to their fullest capacity, but not broken, and must be left until cold; the more perfectly they are drained, the better the dish. Some thinly-sliced onions are first fried in olive oil; when these are half done, the beans are added ; they should be sprinkled with sage and pepper, no salt, and fried a good brown. Toss and serve altogether, piping hot, adding a little salt at the end. This is said by one writer to be “ first-rate when cold, but good enough for a king when hot;” “ and if for a king,” says another writer, “ why not for his loyal sub- jects ? ” Cost, about 4d. to 5d. per pound. A crust of bread, rubbed with garlic, may be tossed with the beans for a moment if the flavour is liked. Where sago is objected to, parsley and thyme may replace it; but it is not easy to improve the original recipe. A very good dish is made by serving any other vegetable, cooked in a tasty maimer, round the beans : for example, carrots, turnips, or celery, stewed or as a puree ; or potatoes, fried, curried, or in balls or croquettes, or any other tasty form. A dish of rice also goes well with the beans. Beans, Haricot, Porridge of.—For this, the split beans referred to on page 675 may be used; or, what are still better, ground haricots ; these are the same thing in a finer form, but aye not so generally obtainable. For aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 578 porridge of the usual sort, the beans should ho soaked, and cooked like oatmeal porridge for a couple or three hours, then sorved with milk and sugar; but a savoury porridge is more likely to be appreciated. Vegetable stock can be used instead of water; it gives softness and a superior flavour ; and a morsel of butter stirred in at the end is a great improvement; or sorao milk thickened with corn-flour or barley-flour (an ounce of either to half a pint of milk) is liked by some; it should be stirred in a little while before serving. Salt and pepper are the only seasonings really necessary. A mixture of hari- cots and pearl barley makes a famous porridge ; they should be soaked and cooked together, and, where no porridge pan (i.e. a double pan) exists, we advise baking in a jar; this can hardly be cooked too long, and there are few better dishes for cold weather. Cheese may be used to flavour if approved; with the addition of an onion or two, it forms a good dish for supper. Beans, Haricot, with Pota- toes.—Required: beans, stock, butter, potatoes, an onion, a tomato, crumbs, cheese, flour, and seasoning as below. Cod, about 8d. or 9d. Boil half a pound of haricots in plain stock until done ; red or brown beans are best for this dish. Put them in a fireproof china dish ready for table; put a few bits of butter over, cover, and set in a good oven for a few minutes. This trifling detail has to do with the success of the dish. Next add a good-sized onion and a tomato ; both sliced and fried (see recipes in Ve- getables), and cut up small. Stir the whole well, level the top, and cover it an inch thick with mashed potatoos. (See Vegetables.) Dredge with bread- crumbs and grated cheese, and bake a good brown. Take half a pint of the stock from the beans, add it with a little flour to the pan the onion was fried in; boil up well, season, add a dash of browning and store sauce, and servo in a boat; a bay leaf will improve this, and it must be carefully strained. Brown Sauce may be used instead of this gravy. Beans, Haricot, Brown Puree of.—Required: beans, stock, herbs, seasoning, dripping, and vege- tables as below. Cost, about 6d., exclusive of garnish or adjuncts in the form of rice, &c. Soak some brown beans, cover them with stock No. 1 or 2, add a bunch of herbs, a few black peppercorns, an onion stock with two cloves, a piece of carrot, a stalk of celery, a pinch of brown sugar, and an ounce of dripping to each quart of beans. Bring to the boil slowly; if hurried at first, the beans are very difficult to soften after; skim just before the liquid boils. Go on simmering for three or four hours, or until soft; pass through a wire sieve or colander, and return to the sauce- pan; add seasoning, with a dash of browning, and any approved store sauce. Serve with any cereal—as rice, cooked plainly—and garnish the puree with a few small slices of hot bacon ; or it can go to table with meat, if the latter is eaten in small quantities ; but in itself it is a highly nourishing dish. (See page 574.) For a maigre dish of this sort, use any vegetable stock, oil instead of dripping, and serve with onion or celery sauce, or with vegetarian brown sauce (see Hot Sauces). Fora more savoury dish, add a fried onion or two to the beans. Beaus, Haricot, Brown Puree of, B.ich.—Cover the beans with stock No. 4 or 5; cook as above, and, when nearly done, add half a gill of clarot to every pint of beans. After sieving, season highly with black pepper and a pinch of cloves and nut- meg, with salt to taste; stir in a teaspoonful of red or black currant jelly, and the same of tomato conserve. This is very nice, and may go to table with any hashes of game or dark meats. Cost, about 8d., for a dish of a pint of beans. Beans, Haricot, Green Pu- ree of.—Put as many green beans asPULSE 570 may be wanted in white stock to cover them, No. 9 for a rich dish, or any plainer variety for a cheaper one. The beans must be first washed and soaked (see page 575). Add a slice or two of onion, turnip, and a stalk of celery ; cover with a buttered paper, and cook until no liquid remains. Sieve the beans, and put back in the saucepan, with an ounce of butter and a table- spoonful of chopped parsley to each pint; add salt, stir, and sharpen up with lemon juice or flavoured vinegar, after taking from the fire, and add a dash of green colouring. For a cheaper dish, the butter may be reduced; for a better one. add a little cream also. Cost, from 5d. to fid. per pint inclusive. Note.—All green purges should be more delicately seasoned than red and brown ones. When for separate dishes, sauce served in a tureen should go to table; it is a great improvement; as a guide to this, so far as kind and rich- ness go, the stock used for the beans will best serve; if that is rich, the sauce may be any of the good white sorts, or Parsley, or any other; and for the plainer purees, the cheaper sauces detailed in our recipes furnish a good choice. Beans, Haricot, Red Puree of. — Required: stock No. 4 or 5, vegetables and herbs to flavour, wine, jelly, garnish, &c., as helow. Cost, about 6d. to 8cL per pint inclusive. Cook the beans in" the stock very slowly, with the vegetables and herbs, a few peppercorns, and a clove or two. Add a little claret or port near the end, with a morsel of any fruit jelly; the stock should be absorbed when the time comes for sieving the puree. Re-heat and season, and dish in a pyramid. It may be garnished with croutons or dredged with fried crumbs. A little thin brown sauce may be poured over before garnishing. This can be recommended both on account of flavour and nutrition; it may be served with game, well-hung mutton, or braised beef, fcc. Beaus, Haricot, with Succo- tash.— Required : beans, succotash, parsley sauce, and white sauce. Cost, about Is. 4d., exclusive of ham or bacon. Boil half a poimd of haricots, and dish them. Pour a gill of Parsley Sauce over. Put round them a tin of succotash (see Vegetables), heated, and mixed with a gill of any nice white sauce. The dish can be served as it is for a vegetable, or some bacon or ham will complete it for separate service. Canned com (see Vegetables) can be used in the same way. Lentils, Boiled.—Prepare the lentils as directed on page 575 ; drain, and put them in a saucepan, with an ounce of fat and a pinch of sugar for each pound. Cover with cold water or any vegetable stock ; bring to the boil, and skim well; add a bunch of herbs and a pinch of ground nutmeg, 01- other spice, and cook until done, putting in a little water now and then. Near the end, boil fast with the lid off, that the liquor may be nearly dried up, add salt to taste, and a sprinkling of black pepper. Time, according to kind and quality. Whole Egyptian may take three hours or more; split ones will probably be done in two-thirds the time. Cost, from 2d. to 4d. per pound. To make the above more piquant, a little vinegar, ketchup, or store sauce may be added; the dish, for some, is further improved by the addition of a few onions, chopped and fried; or they may be boiled with the lentils; or any cold vegetables that may happen to be available can be put in, in time to get hot through. Cost, about 2d. per pound. Lentils, Curried, — Required : half a pound of brown split lentils, a teaspoonful each of curry paste and chutney, half a lemon, an apple, a tomato, an onion, a pinch of powdered bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, an ounce of dripping, and a dessertspoonful of rice- flour. Cost, about 6d. without rice. Heat the fat, chop and brown the onion in it; skin the tomato, cut it in dice ; slice tho apple, and add both to the onion, with the herbs and curryUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 580 paste mixed smoothly. Then tako half a pint of liquor from the lentils, which should he hoiling in a separate saucepan; add it with the rice-flour, and boil gently for about half an horn-. When the lentils are done, put them in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce round, after removing the herbs, and adding the lemon juice and seasoning. The sauce is improved by sieving. Another way.—This is very simple. When the lentils are boiled almost enough, and not much moisture remains, add the ingredients above detailed, after frying them. They should he put in half an hour before dishing—the lemon juice, &c., being added at the end. Rice with these dishes is quite optional. Another excellent dish is ohtainod by adding a large fried onion to half a pound of lentils, and about two or three tablospoonfuls of cooked carrot, mashed or chopped. Curry powder can ho used in place of paste; hut it is loss soft and smooth. Lentils, Curried, with Slice and Barley.—There are few cheaper curries than this; it is very easy to prepare, and a trial will convince any- one of its excellence. Required : half a pound of lentils, two ounces of rice, the same of pearl barley, a gill of tinned tomatoes, the same measure of chopped \ogetables (carrot, onion, celery, &c.), seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. First fry the onion brown with a good bunch of herbs, put in a baking jar or dish, with the lentils, vegetables, l ice, and barley, all washed and soaked; add a tablespoonful of oil or butter, and cover with cold water. Set in a very gentle oven, and cook for three or four hours, until most of the liquor has dried up. The contents of the jar must be stirred now and then. Add, half an hour or so before serving, salt to taste, a dessertspoonful or more of curry paste or powder, a pinch of brown sugar, and enough vinegar to give a pleasant acidity. Beat the whole well before serving to blend the ingredients, take out the hunch of herbs and serve hot, alone, or with meat. With such a dish, a little meat goes a long way. Lentils, Green, Boiled. -Cook as above directed, and add a little colouring before serving; or boil a morsel of spinach with them ; chopped parsley, or dried mint, or any other herb can be used to season this dish, which is all the nicer if a little butter be stirred in just before serving. Cost, about 3d. per pound. Lentils, Potted. — This is a well-known portable savoury; the tasto for it is an acquired one, but it is very sustaining, and may be a very palatable compound; much depends upon the care taken in its preparation, and the nature of the seasoning. First boil some lentils in water or stock until soft enough to sieve; the pulp should then be mixed with butter, salt, pepper, and a little mushroom powder, or curry powder or paste, or some nice herb mixture or celery salt; anything of the kind to taste; a pinch of cayenne and mace will also increase the zest of the dish. A little good cheese, dry enough to grate, is a very general addition; an ounce will be enough for half a pound of lentils ; and bread-crumbs are frequently mixed in, but we think that they are well replaced by some well-cooked rice. The whole should he well pounded, when it may bo pressed into small pots or used for sandwiches. Cost, about 6d. or 8d. per pound inclusive. The exact proportions of the several ingredients must depend upon circum- stances; if for keeping, more oil or butter will be wanted than if for present use. Small pots are host, as they can be used up quickly. The surface of the paste should be brushed over with oil, and a paper tied over if it is likely that the lentils will soon bo eaten; hut for storing for a week or more, clarified butter should be poured over, the same as for potted meats. (See page 497.) Lentils a la Proven£ale.— Required : lentils, oil, herbs, an onion,PULSE. 581 lemon, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 8d. per pound inclusive. Boil some lentils (see Lentils, Boiled) until three-parts done; let them drain from moisture, then put them in a stewpan when cold, and add some good oil to keep them moist; in this the cooking is to be linished, the pun being shaken now and then. A good seasoning of chopped parsley is wanted, with a shredded onion, and some thyme and other herbs; the dish should be very savoury. Shortly before serving, add a dash of lemon juice, and beat in the yolk of an egg to every half pound of lentils, which must not boil after this addition. Serve hot. In many recipes for this dish, it is advised that the lentils be put into the oil after soaking, without pre- liminary boiling; such involves great care and trouble during the cooking, and we give the preference to this; but both methods can be tried. Lentil Puree, Vegetarian.— Required: lentils, rice, a lettuce, onions, oil or butter, an egg, seasoning, bread, &e., as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. Cover some German lentils (soaked and drained) with cold water; add two ounces of washed rice for each half pound, and a small lettuce, cut up, with a few young onions ; bring to the boil, stir in a lump of butter the size of an egg, or a tablespoonful of oil, and cook gently, skimming as required. When nearly done, pour off some of the liquor, a quarter pint or there- abouts ; beat it up with a raw egg, return this to the pan as soon as the lentils are tender, and beat well for some minutes. Keep below boiling- point, but quite hot; add seasoning to taste, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve with fried bread cut in dice or strips. This is very nourishing, and the egg gives softness. When no lettuce can be had, a little of the heart of a parboiled cabbage may be used. Soirel and many other plants of the kind are advantageously combined with lentils; vegetable stock is a further improvement. Sometimes the green lentils turn a dirty brownish colour, and a few drops of green colouring aro necessary to make the dish look appetising. Meat-eaters may make a puree in the same way, with plain meat stock, and serve with either white or brown meats. Lentil Rolls.—Required; lentils, bread, eggs, herbs, seasoning, parsley, lemon, vermicelli, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d., exclusive of sauce or gravy, for rolls made from a pound of lentils. See Lentil Pukkk, Vegetarian. Prepare the lentils ns therein directed, and, while hot, add some fine bread- or plain biscuit-crumbs to make a stiff mixture; set by to get cold, then flour the hands, and mould into two-inch lengths, the thickness of an ordinary sausage. Dust them with a seasoning of herbs, salt, pepper, grated lemon peel, and nutmeg. Dip them into beaten white of egg, and roll them in crushed vermicelli or biscuit-crumbs. Lay them in a frying-basket, and plunge into hot fat to cover. They should be brown and crisp. Serve with fried parsley and cut lemon, or any sauce or gravy. They are tasty and satisfying, and nice hot or cold. Another variety is made by taking plainly-boiled lentils, and adding a little butter and a good seasoning of grated cheese and cayenne; a dash of chutney improves these. Boiled macaroni, with a squeeze of lemon juice over, goes well with them ; they should be sprinkled w'ith grated cheese before serving. Lentils a la Venne.—Required; lentils, chestnuts, eggs, vinegar, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. per pound, inclusive of chestnuts. Prepare the lentils as above detailed, but instead of the herbs named, use sage, about half a dozen leaves to the pound of lentils, and omit the parsley; and in place of lemon juice, use the vinegar from pickled walnuts. Take the pan from the fire beforo beating the eggs in. Put the lentils in a ring on a hot dish, I and fill tho centre with hot boiledUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 582 chestnuts, passed through a coarse sieve, and allowed to fall lightly in. This is very tasty, and a good accompaniment to sausages or liver. Brown lentils are intended, and they should he par- boiled in stock. Peas Brose.—“In the West of Scotland, especially in Glasgow,” says Dr. Andrew, “peas brose, as it is called, is made of the line flour of the white pea, by forming it into a mass, merely by the addition of boiling water and a little salt; it is a favourite dish with not only the working classes, but is even esteemed by many of the gentry. The peas brose is eaten with milk or butter, and is a sweet, nourishing article of diet.” Milk is sometimes used for it. With reference to this dish, it is not too much to say that the number of persons who could digest it in England is comparatively small. Certainly, those who have been trained to cooked fare would not be wise to attempt experiments with dishes of this class. (See remarks on page 575.) When cooked, the brose is to be recommended to those who work hard in the open. It may be served with any of the usual porridge adj uncts. Peas, Dried Green, Boiled. —Soak whole or split peas (see page 575); if oatmeal be added to the water, rub them between the hands ■while rinsing, to get rid of it; if they seem soft, and look a nice pale green, something like fresh peas, they may go into hot water; if not, put them in cold; to either, add a pinch of white sugar and a little fat free from salt; oil or butter is best; use plenty of water, and cook slowly without the lid until done. Mint may be put in the water, or added after dishing, together with some butter, or the peas may be served without either. Add no salt until they have softened. It is im- possible to lay down any time for the cooking; we have found some samples tender in about three-quarters of an hour; others have taken more than double the time. It is a good plan to try a sample, and note the time required, then, if good, to lay in a stock. They must be stored in a dry place ; we think that canisters or jars with good lids are the best things for the purpose. Some prefer stout brown paper bags, suspended from the ceiling, the peas being first enclosed in calico bags. For superior dishes of boiled peas, reference should be made to the recipes for cooking fresh peas, in the next chapter, which will meet all requirements. Cost, about 2d. to 3d. per pound. Peas, Dried Green, Purde of.—Required : peas, stock, butter, cream, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 9d. or lOd. Put a quart of split green peas in a saucepan, and cover with white stock (No. 9 for a rich puree) ; an ounce of butter, with a little white pepper and sugar, and a bunch of herbs should be added, and the whole covered with a sheet of buttered paper. After simmering until soft and rubbing through a sieve (the finer the sieve, the better the puree), a few minutes’ re- heating with a gill of cream, salt to taste, and a suspicion of green colouring finishes the puree, which should be dished in a pyramid, and served with meat or as a separate dish. The nature of the dish with which the peas are to be served will be a guide as to garnish. When these peas are good and well dressed, they may be used as substi- tutes for fresh ones when they are not obtainable. For a cheaper pur6e, use a plainer stock, reduce the cream, and add milk, with a little corn-flour to thicken. Peas Pudding.—Wash and soak a quart of split peas; drain and tie them in a cloth, leaving room to swell; the best way is to tie the cloth in two places—the first within a couple of inches of the peas, the second a couple of inches higher; then, when the peas have swollen up to the first string, it can be cut. This is less trouble than having to re-tie the cloth in a second place, while it is hot. Put them on inCHEESE. 583 cold water with a bit of fat in it, or use greasy stock—from pork or ham. Boil until done (from two to three hours!, then rub the peas through a colander, better still, a wire sieve, and put with them two ounces of dripping or butter, and salt and pepper to season well. A beaten egg makes it richer and smoother, and ensures its turning out a good shape. Flour or grease the cloth, tie the peas tightly, and boil again for half an hour or rather more. I Serve hot with boiled pork or bacon; and it is just as good with boiled beef. Many persons like the addition of mashed potatoes; they may be equal in bulk to the peas, or in less pro- portion, and may be added when the peas are sieved. They should be mealy and perfectly mashed; if lumpy or the least watery, they willspoilthe pudding. (See Potatoes.) Mint or any other herbs may be added to the pudding, or dried mint served with it. Cost, 5d. to 6d. Peas Pudding (very Su- perior).—Required: a pint of soaked split peas, a saltspoonful each of white sugar and pepper, a bunch of herbs, stock No. 11 or 12, and an ounce or two of butter. Cost, od. to 6d. Butter a stewpan at the bottom and [ round the sides as far as the peas I reach, add the sugar, and cover the pan, then shake it over the fire for a few seconds ; add stock as above just to cover the peas, lay a sheet of j buttered or oiled paper over, and I bring very slowly to the boil; skim thoroughly, and cook until soft, about ! three hours; an occasional shake is ; required, and a little fresh stock from time to time. When done, remove the | herbs, add salt to taste, and rub all I through a sieve; then put the peas back into the pan, add either an ounce more butter or olive oil, or cream may bctselif preferred. Beat hard until the i uree is hot through, then serve in a pile with strips of toast or fried bread round it, and send dried powdered mint to table. It may be served as a vegetarian dish, or with pork or beef. Peas Pudding, Superlative. -—Proceed as directed above, but use stock No. 1 or 2, with herbs to taste, and a pinch of celery seed. Sieve and finish as above, or pour round it a puree of carrots, onions, or celery, and send brown gravy or sauce to table in a tuieen. Another way.—To every pint of peas, add about four ounces of fried ham or bacon in strips, and a fried onion, sliced, a short time before serving, and serve as a separate dish. This is very test}'. Many other ways of finishing off, according to convenience and pre- ference, may be adopted; we wish, however, to call attention to this method of preparing peas pudding as very superior to that of tying it in a cloth and boiling it in a large quantity of water. In the one, much nutriment goes into the water ; in the other, it is retained; while the difference in flavour is very pronounced. The same prin- ciple may be carried out in the very cheapest forms of pudding ; a morsel of dripping, or even some greasy stock, will supply the necessary fat, for stock that is too greasy for any other purpose (so long as it is not very salt) answers excellently for peas. For persons who like a very soft pudding (many do)—a sort of go-between a pudding and a soup—the stock may be increased or the peas reduced at pleasure. CHEESE. CHEESE, as an article of food, is deserving of attention from the fact that it can be brought from all parts of the world, and may be readily stored and kept for a considerable time. As to its composition, that varies greatly ; but cheese must always bo looked upon as a concentrated food,584 Universal Cookery book, because of its comparatively low percentage of water. A good sample of such a cheese as “ double Gloucester ” might contain less than half the water present in lean beef. But a practical question is, can we assimilate aud convert into our own substance the cheese food as easily as the flesh food P This is answered very decidedly in the negative by those who have given careful study to the matter. But the digestibility of cheese is, to some extent, dependent upon its age, texture, and composition. With few exceptions, a moist cheese, of the fatty kind, is less likely to cause trouble t ban one made from skim milk. A* brief consideration of the kinds in common use will best serve our purpose. Stilton is a general favourite; its quality varies according to its ripeness. A naturally ripened one, i.e. one that has been carefully stored for some time, is said by competent judges to be the best. The purchaser completes the ripening, in the case of a new cheese, by pouring in ale or port. Gorgonzola is a similar cheese in composition, both being of the fatty class; but much imitation Gorgonzola is said to be palmed off on the public. Cheshire is a favourite; it is rich and of good flavour. Gloucester is a milder cheese, that called “ double ” Gloucester being richer in cream than the “single.” Cheddar is a well-known and much-liked sort. Of the American cheeses, there are good, bad, and indifferent; of the good ones, American Cheddar is said to be the best. Dutch cheese may be looked upon as a perfect specimen of a skim-milk cheese, the consumption of which, just before retiring, is likely to result in “ a very eventful night.” The celebrated Parmesan, which is one of the most expensive, is another specimen of the not easily digested sorts; the same may be said of all that are dry enough to grate easily. The several varieties of Swiss cheese possess a fine and pronounced flavour; Gruy'ere is largely eaten in England; its peculiar taste is due to the addition of a special dried powdered herb. Many of the “ cream cheeses ” from France are very good, and some are made from a mixture of milk and cream from the cow and the goat. Some of the home-made varieties, though very nice, can only be regarded as solidified cream ; the “ milk cheeses,” made on the same principle, arc preferred by some, being less rich. Tastes differ much in the matter of cheese, and it is one of the few foods that the buyer may test by tasting; but a few hints as to the tests of goodness may be serviceable. In selecting any of the fatty sorts, look out for a moist, smooth surface, with rounded edges aud sides, though the latter should not be over-swelled. The top should not be elevated. Sharp edges aud straight sides indicate a poorer quality. A rough-coated, dry, rugged cheese will have in it mites or hoppers, or both. This is not. wholesome ; but we do not suppose that those on the look-out for it will be deterred from eating it so long as they can get it; still, there are people who are equally anxious to avoid it. One good test for cheese is to take a portion between the finger and thumb, and rub it slightly; if it softens readily, leaving the hand greasy, its richness is assured. When a whole or large portion of cheese is bought, the reserve part should be kept in a stone jar or pan, with a lid ; the place it is stored in must be dry and cool; some persons keep the cut surface moist by the aid of fresh butter. When cheese is too dry or too near the rind to send to table585 CHEESE. it may be used up iu endless ways—not a scrap need be wasted. It should be grated and put into bottles for use iu any of the dishes in the present and other chapters. Many cheese dishes, especially those of the Welsh Rarebit type, owe much of their excellence to their “ piping hot ” condition ; to attain this, a cheese dish is almost a necessity, and those who do not possess out' should convert any dish of a suitable kind into a hot-water dish by way of a substitute A muffin or kidney dish will serve the purpose. Other cheese dishes are given in various parts of the book, under pastry, souffles, puddings, etc., for which see Index. We will close these remarks with a reference to a few preparations of cheese with cereals, etc., to which the term “ digestible ” has been employed. The dishes are detailed on page 589. We think we are correct in stating that the treatment of cheese by the addition of bicarbonate of potash, the digestive agent in question, originated with the late Professor Williams, and the recipes herein are the outcome of experiments made in accordance with the suggestions given in his admirable work ‘‘ The Chemistry of Cookery.” The main advantages of this particular treatment are summed up thus:—It makes up any deficiency of mineral matter that is left behind in the whey in cheese-making; it neutralises the acid ; and converts the casein into its original form, as it existed in the milk. The average amount of potash required is a quarter of an ounce for each pound of cheese used, whatever may be the nature or amount of the other materials added. If these proportions are used, the bitter flavour of the potash will not be detected ; but, in excess, it is readily perceptible. One result of what the Professor calls his cheese- cooking researches is cheese porridge, and he recommends it especially to those who work out of doors; it must be cautiously used by sedentary livers, “ lest they suffer from over-nutrition, which is but a few degrees worse than partial starvation.” Beignets of Cheese and Semolina.—Required : milk, butter, potato-flour, semolina, cheese, season- ing, eggs, and bread-crumbs. Cost, about 9d. Cook together in a double saucepan a pint of milk, an ounce of butter, three ounces of semolina, and an ounce of potato-flour. It will take about an hour. Draw it from the fire, add salt and pepper to taste, and the yolks of four raw eggs; beat hard for a few minutes; then stir in two ounces of grated cheese. Turn out to cool on a buttered dish, and when firm cut it into rounds with a pastry-cutter. Brush over with beaten egg, and coat with fine crumbs, seasoned like the interior, then fry delicately. Serve on a folded napkin. These beignets aro inexpensive and very dainty. Cheese Aigrettes.—Required: three ounces of Vienna flour, one ounce of butter, tho yolks of three eggs, and the whites of one and a half, a pinch of salt, cayenne and ground mace, an ounce of grated Parmesan, and the same weight of Cheddai cheese, a gill each of milk and water. Cost, about Gd. Boil the milk and water together, add the butter, stir in the flour by degrees, it must bo dry and sifted, then take tho, pan from tho tiro and drop in the yolks of the eggs, singly, s'586 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. beating hard; season, and stir in the stiffly-whipped .whites ; then put by to cool a little, but not to get quite cold. Have a deep pan of hot fat ready; then drop in the mixture from a fork, to form rooky or feathery shapes; they should be as large as a chestnut. The instant they are pale brown and crisp take them up, or they will become too dark; a slice must be used, and the aigrettes well drained on soft paper. Dish them in a pile on a hot serviette, and sprinkle them with grated cheese. This is a very good dish, but care is needed in the cook- ing ; the fat must bo hot as well as “ clean.” Cheese B alIs.—Required : cheese, bread, butter, seasoning, eggs, and flour. Cost, about 4d. or 5d. Cheese that has become too dry for table answers for these. Grate two ounces, put it in a mortar with an ounce of butter, a small tablespoonful of bread-crumbs, half the measuro of cream, a pinch of dry mustard, salt, and cayenne or white pepper, then pound all to a paste. Then add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and pound again. Test the mixture, and add, if it requires it, a little raw egg to moisten, but this depends upon the condition of the cheese; if very dry, the egg will be wanted, but if soft it can be shaped as it is. Flour the hands and a board, and make the balls the size of a common marble; then set theiff by to become firm. They are intended for soups, and can either be egged and crumbed, and fried in the usual way, or simmered in boiling stock for a few minutes. If the first mode is preferred, and the soup clear, be careful to drain them free from fat before dropping them in. They answer too for garnishing many dishes of cheese; or by increasing the pro- portions, and making the balls as large again, they can go to table as a savoury, in the way diroclei for Cheese Aigrettes. Cheese Bomhes, with Spinach.—Required : a custard as below, cheese, bread, hard-boiled eggs, seasoning, and spinach. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d., inclusive. Prepare a custard by beating the yolks of four eggs with the whites ol two, a gill of milk, half as much cream, a dust of cayenne, and two ounces of grated cheese, half English and hall Parmesan. Then add a large table- spoonful of bread-crumbs, soaked in half a gill of rich white sauce; poui all into a saucepan, and stir until it thickens; then take from the fire, and when a little cool fill some buttered bombe moulds, garnished with chopped ham at the bottoms. Steam them for about a quarter of an hour, and turn them out on a bed of spinach; this is to be put on a dish in the form of a border. Just before serving, fill the middle with four hard-boiled eggs sliced, and coated with thick white sauce, flavoured with cheese. Serve very hot. The mixture above will make seven or eight bombes. Cheese Cream.—This is a very delicious savoury. Required : bread, cream, eggs, cheese, crumbs, sauce, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is. 8d. to Is. lOd. Prepare the cases as in Dresden Patties. The filling should be in readiness, and is made as follows: slice some Gruyfere and rich English cheese into a stowpan, equal parts of each; allow an ounce of cheese for each case; and supposing eight ounces of cheese and half a gill of cream, add the same measure of bechamel, rich creamy ; season with cayenne—it will probably be salt enough—and stir until the cheese is melted; it is then ready for use. After filling the cases, replace the portions that were cut from the tops; they should be Med with the rest. Dish on a serviette 01 lace paper. A dash of French mustard can be put in the seasoning, if liked. Cheese Custard, Moulded. —Required : milk, cream, eggs, gela- tine, and seasoning, with adjuncts as below. Cost of custard only, about Is. to Is. 3d.587 CHEESE. This is a savoury for use in hot -weather. To make it, put into a saucepan a gill each of cream and milk, the yolks of three eggs, and a pinch of cayenne and grated nutmeg. Whisk tho mixture until on the point of boiling, then take it from the fire and strain in a gill of milk in which half an ounce of French sheet gelatine has been separately dissolved. The two preparations should be cooled a little before mixing. Two ounces of grated Parmesan should be stirred into the first pan as soon as taken from the fire. This may be put in one large or a number of small moulds, holding about half a gill each. A very superior dish is made by adding a gill of stiffly-whipped cream just before the custard is moulded; it should be cool when this is done. Place the moulds on ice or in an ice-cave, and turn out when cold and firm on to a bed of green salad; or chopped aspic and sprigs of parsley can be used to garnish the dish. Cheese Straws or plain crisp biscuits should be served with the custard. Cheese Cutlets a la Meri- vale. — Required : eggs, cream, cheese, vermicelli, seasoning, white sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about Is. Break into a basin the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two ; add half a gill of cream, two ounces of grated cheese, half Parmesan and half Cheshire; season with mace and cayenne. Whisk this very thoroughly, then beat in half a gill of any rich white sauce: Bechamel for choice. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin with turned-up edges to the depth of half an inch, then let it steam gently until firm. This may be done in a potato steamer or in a tin of water in a slow oven. When perfectly cold, cut this into shapes with a small cutlet cutter, and dredge both sides with grated cheese as used for the mixture. Next coat them with raw beaten egg, and finally with crushed vermicelli. Lay them carefully in a frying-basket, and. plunge them into clean fat, very hot. As soon as golden brown, drain on soft paper, and dish. They may either be placed on a ring of fried bread or laid on separate croutons the shape of the cutlets, but a trifle larger. This is a dainty dish, and care is needed in its preparation. Note.—Take care to remove the specks from the eggs before adding the cheese, etc. Cheese, Devilled.—This can be varied with respect to flavouring, but it is, as its name indicates, a piquant preparation. Slice some cheese into a stewpan: a mixture of sorts is often liked; then add a little butter, or milk, or cream to moisten, regulating the quantity by the condition of the cheese. Stir until melted, when it •should be of the consistence of thick custard. Add cayenne, salt, mixed mustard, and some finely-chopped mixed pickles; chutney is another suitable adjunct; and many would think the dish lacked completeness without a dash of Worcester sauce. This can go to table in a hot water dish, or the mixture may be poured on toast or fried bread, in strips or squares. To be eaten in perfection, it must be piping hot. Cost, about 6d. for a small dish. Cheese Meringues.—Re- quired : cheese, flour, butter, eggs, and seasoning as below'. Cost, about lOd. to Is. Melt in a saucepan six ounces of sliced cheese, of which half should be Gruyere and half rich English ; three ounces of butter and a gill of water are to be stirred in as soon as the cheese begins to melt, and the whole must form a smooth creamy mass after a little stirring. Have ready some dry sifted Vienna flour, stir it in little by little until the whole becomes a stiff paste, then add tho yolk of an egg, beat well; add a second, and beat again. Tako two tablespoons, grease tlie insides of both; tako *up a spoon- ful of the paste, level it, and by means588 Universal cookery rook. of tho second spoon slide it out on a slightly buttered baking-sheet; pro- ceed in this way until the paste is used up, then bake gently to a nice brown. While baking, whip the whites to a froth, add a dust of caj'enne, and coat the meringues with this as soon as done. A bag and pipe will be wanted, and if a small one is used, by which little dots of the egg can be “ piped”on in rows, the effect repays the extra trouble; but a plain pipe will do of the large size, such as is used for vegetables. The meringues are to be put back in a cool part of the oven until they are a delicate brown, then dusted with a pinch of coralline pepper, and dished like Cheese Aighettes. Cheese, Potted. — Required : cheese, butter, and seasoning as below, tlost, from 6d. to 8d. when half a pound of cheese is used. This is a popular savoury amongst vegetarians. The cheese should he sliced into a mortar, and pounded with butter or oil, about a fourth its weight, but taste and the condition of the cheese must be considered. The usual seasonings are salt and pepper, with a morsel of mustard, but curry paste or powder, cayenne, and store sauce or ketchup are used by some. All must be added gradually during the pound- ing. Then press into little pots. It will keep well in a cool place, but for long keeping the seasoning must bo increased and tho directions for Pot- ted Meats followed.* This is useful for taking on a journey, and may-be eaten with bread, plain biscuits, dry toast, or bread and butter. A little cress or other salad is an improvement. Cheese, Stewed. — This is a cheap and simple dish. Some sliced cheese is put in a saucepan with a little milk, then stirred until heated, and seasoned with pepper, mustard, and salt. This is a good way of using up stale cheese. It should be soft enough to spread on toast for serving, or it can be sent to table in a dish with triangles of toast stuck round it. Cost, about Id , if four ounces of cheese be used. Cheese Straws. — Required : cheese, butter, flour, eggs, and season- ing. Cost, about 6d. for a small dish. Mix together equal weights of grated Parmesan, fresh butter, and line flour; the butter and cheese are to be rubbed in the flour until the mixture is like bread-crumbs. Season with cayenne, a pinch only, and a dust of pounded mace. Add as much raw egg yolk as will make a stiff paste, roll out thinly, being careful not to break it, cut it into lengths of three or four inches, and a quarter inch wide, and bake to a rich yellow colour in a good oven, but not fierce enough to bum them. Remove with care and serve cold, either in transverse rows or put in bundles through rings cut from the same pastry, and baked with the straws. Another ivay.—These are plainer. Add to the above as many bread- crumbs as will equal the weight of the cheese, and of the latter use any kind available. These can be served hot, if liked. Either of the kinds will keep in a tin with a good lid, but they are nicer freshly made. (See Pastry.) Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Rarebit.—For a superior dish, put any good cheese, as Cheshire, in a stewpan; it should be thinly sliced, and moistened with a tablespoonful of cream and an ounce of butter to each quarter pound. A very good cheese will not need quite so much butter. Stir until hot. Add mustard and cayenne to season pleasantly, with a little salt; celery salt is an agreeable and suitable addition. Have some nicely-made toast well-buttered, and cut in strips or fingers, pour the cheese over, and brown it before the fire or by the aid of the salamander. Serve in a cheese dish (see page 585). Cost, about 6d., inclusive. Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Rarebit, Plain.—A good Ameri- can cheese answers for this dish. Molt the cheese in a saucepan, adding a589 CIIKESK. little milk or butter to moisten it; by some persons a spoonful of ale is pre- ferred, and others add a dash of store sauce. This is served on a slice of buttered toast. "When slices of cooked bacon are laid on the top, it becomes * “ buck rabbit ” ; and if further en- liched by a poached egg, the title changes to “golden buck.” If poor cheese be used, it will not melt, and will be “ leathery ” when cooked. Digestible Cheese Dishes.— Xo. 1.—This is a simple form of pud- ding or mould. Take a deep pie-dish, butter it, and nearly fill it with alternate layers of bread and butter and grated or sliced cheese ; the bread and butter is to be soaked in a mixture of eggs and milk, two to the pint. Bi- carbonate of potash, in the proportion of a quarter of an ounce to one pound of cheese, is to be dissolved in the milk. This should stand before baking, to give time for saturation, and the oven must be gentle. If liked, the bread may be grated; and those who think the browned surface the best part of a Yorkshire pudding will use a baking- tin of the same sort for this. Cost, about 6d. or 7d. Dishes of this sort are too nutritious to supplement a joint, and should be used as a Swiss peasant uses his fondti, i.e. as the substantial part of a whole- some dinner. A dish a little less savoury than the above, but very good and more diges- tible, is the same mixture steamed ; it must be made stiffer by the addition of more bread, or an ounce of flour to each pint of milk, as well as an extra egg; any previously cooked cereal— rice, for instance—is a good addition, as it helps to bind as well as give bulk, thus making it more economical, as well as more adapted to the require- ments of some people. Note.—It may be remarked that the use of the potash is not so necessary when milk can be had and used straight from the cow, that being in itself slightly alkaline, and the softer the cheese the more easily wijl it dissolve. Xo. 2.—This is of the fondu class. Take a gill of milk, as much bicarbonate of potash as will cover a threepenny- piece, and four ounces of grated cheese; heat these carefully in a saucepan until the cheese is completely dissolved, then add three eggs, and pour the pre- paration into shallow dishes or trays of metal or earthenware that will stand the fire, and bake until nearly solidified. The advantage of using shallow uten- sils is that as less time is required for cooking, “ an air-tight leathery skin ” on the surface is absent. For a cheaper dish, use fewer eggs and add bread-crumbs; the seasoning is composed of mustard, cayenne, white pepper, and, if liked, a dash of nutmeg. This is Professor Williams’s own recipe. Cost, from 5d. to 6d. Referring to dishes of cheeso and any Italian paste, the author contrasts the usual English method with that of the Italians. The latter, he says, take care that the cheese is delicately cooked; while in England “ the top layer, being often of grated cheese, is browned and converted into a horny, caseous form of carbon, that would induce chronic dyspepsia in the stomach of a wild boar if he fed upon it for a week.” We recommend the following as a light dish of the sort, if made strictly according to instructions :— Mix an ounce of com-flour or potato- flour with a little cold milk; heat tho remainder of a pint of milk, and add it to the flour; boil for a few minutes, stirring well. Take it from tho firo and let it cool slightly; theh stir in, until quite soft and smooth, two ounces of cheese, grated or sliced, according to its condition; season to taste, then pour the mass into a dish into which about four tablespoonfuls of boiled macaroni has been laid. Stick sippets of dry toast round, and serve. A few grains bicarbonate of potash are to bo stirred in after the milk and flour have boiled; but without tho potash, this will not disagreo with anyone who cm tako cheese at all. Cost, about od. Xo. 3.—This is tho typical cheeso porridge, It is described as “ ordinaryUNIVERSAL COOKERY COOK. 590 oatmeal porridge, mado in the usual manner, but to which grated cheese is added, either while in the pot or after taking it out, and yet as hot as possible; it should be well stirred in.” All forms of porridge may be prepared in the same way. We can fully endorse Professor Williams’s recommendation to add cheese to the old-fashioned “hasty pudding,” which converts it, as he says, into a savoury and highly nutritious porridge. It is not always necessary to add milk; those who prefer it may, after mixing in the cheese, add a little gravy or sauce. Another dish, to be had by the blending of cheese with mashed potatoes that have been boiled in their skins, and thinned with milk or stock to the consistency of porridge, is worthy of consideration. Boiled potatoes will not do: that is to say, the dish is not the same thing, as only by baking potatoes in their skins are tho saline constituents pre- served, and these, as already explained, are especially demanded in combination with cheese. EGGS. Eggs contain all the necessary constituents of food, and are amongst the most useful of the ingredients that contribute to the composition of every sort of dish, both savoury aud sweet. The eggs of many birds are used for food; but we are for the moment considering the egg of the common hen, as tho most largely used for culinary purposes. Eggs contain a good doal of nourishment in a concentrated form. Weight for weight, they may be placed on a level with butchers’ meat. The yolk is the richer; it has in it more oil and fat, as well as more albumen and mineral matter than the white; there is also a lower percentage of water. It is owing to the presence of the oil that the yolk cannot be whisked to a stiff froth, as the white can ; and it is only while the egg is in a fresh condition that the white can be so treated. On an average, eggs weigh, in the shell, from an ounce and a half to two ounces; to reach tho latter weight, they must be large and fresh. They lose in weight as age increases, by reason of the porosity of the shell; therefore, apart from the fact that a stale egg is of all-round inferiority, it is not the economical purchase that some people imagine, when, this is considered, although the money cost may be but littlo more than half that of fresh eggs. Not that it is necessary, nor is it possible, to buy absolutely new-laid eggs for cooking purposes ; we only desiro to say that the lowest-priced ones are not always the cheapest; the shells may be only three-parts full, aud out of each dozen two or three may be really bad. We may, however, point out that there is such a thing as using an egg too fresh, particularly for poaching. An egg a day old will retain its shape, but when quite fresh, there is a certain milkiness in the white, aud a consequent tendency to run. No one wants telling what a bad egg is like; once seen, it is never forgotten; but various tests are employed for judging of the condition of an egg without breaking the shell. One is to apply the tip of tho tongue to the large end, which will be warm if the egg be fresh. Another is to hold the egg up to a good light or beforo a. lighted candle : if fairly clear, it is a sign of goodness; opacity is indicative of staleness, and a black spot provesEGGS. 591 unfitness for use. Some persons pin their faitli to the brine test (two ounces of stilt to a pint of water). A fresh egg will fall to and remain at the bottom, while any that float, are very doubtful, and most likely quite worthless. Again, one may judge of an egg by shaking it: if uo sound is emitted, it is full and fresh ; if stale, it will “ gurgle.” When more than one ogg is wanted for any dish, they should always be broken separately into a cup, because one bad one may spoil a dozen unless this precaution be observed. The specks or germs are to be removed with a fork for every dish; to get one in the mouth is a very common but unpleasant experience. For dainty dishes, the precaution of straining after beating is well observed. The manner of beating, too, is of no small importance; this applies more especially to certain dishes: such are indicated under their headings; but we may here mention, as it applies to any dish, that in separating the whites from the yolks of eggs, if the latter should by chance becomo mingled with them, the condition described as a “ stiff froth ” cannot be attained ; it is wasto of time to try. Neither can the separation be effected if the egg be stale; for the chances are that the two portions are already mingled before the egg is broken. Again, after the firm froth—so necessary when extreme lightness is a desideratum—is obtained, the mass is only to be stirred, never beaten, to the other materials. Why? Just because air has been incorporated, and the object is to fix these bubbles by means of heat. Therefore the mixture, whatever its nature, should not stand after the amalgamation, but be cooked at once. We have referred to the nutritive properties of eggs, but they cannot be indulged in by all; some can take them cooked in certain ways, and uot in others; and although there is no fixed rule, it will generally be found that lightly-cooked ones are most likely to agree, and that boiled ones often canse trouble when poached ones do not. Where hard-boiled eggs can be digested, they are a good food, by reason of their staying powers; hence their use on long journeys. Besides the dishes in the present chapter, there are many others in various parts of the book into which eggs enter, and reference should be made to the Index. Particulars and illustrations of whisks and other utensils employed in egg cookery will be found in the present aud later chapters, i See also Kitchen Utensils, at the end of the book.) Ducks’ Eggs.—There is a great difference in the flavour of theso— sometimes they are so strong as to be almost uneatable; but when mild and the flavour is liked, they are generally an economical purchase, as they may often be had for a penny each. They are more likely to agree if cooked out of the shell; we prefer them poached. The ordinary methods are to be followed, sufficient time being allowed in proportion to their size. When done, the whites will look opaque all through. In the making of puddings and other dishes of a plain sort, one largo duck egg may take the place of two small hen eggs, so far as richness goes, but their stiffening properties are hardly equal. The albumen of the duck ogg is of a bluish cast when cooked, and although wo have used the word opaque in connection with the cooking, the same dogreo of whiteness or opaqueness found in the eggs of the hen will bo wanting. If preferred wiled, allow ns long again ns for a small lieu egg. Some are of opinionUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 592 that a lightly-boiled duck egg is best; it is a matter of taste, but we find them generally liked best when well done. Owing to their uncertain flavour, do not use these eggs for custards and other delicate preparations. Pheasants' Eggs.—A note of warning was recently sounded that the eggs of the plover were in danger of failing to meet the demand, and some went so far as to prophesy extinction; so a supply of pheasants’ eggs sent daily to a few of the best poultry shops in London supplied the deficiency, and were pronounced very good. They cost from 3s. to 4s. per dozen, therefore are only suitable for high-class dishes. They may take the place of plovers’ eggs, and the recipes for tho best of the ordinary egg dishes may be followed. To give special recipes for cooking them would involve useless repetition. Turkeys’ Eggs.—These may be cooked and served in the same ways as ordinary eggs, and may be used for puddings, &c., due allowance being made for the difference in size. They are almost as delicate in flavour as hens’ eggs, therefore their use is not restricted to certain dishes, as ducks’ eggs are. Cost, uncertain. Sivans’ Eggs.—The eggs of the swan may bo boiled ; the following is generally considered the best mode ;—Put the eggs into a good supply of boiling water, and leave them for twenty minutes, below boiling-point. Then boil for a quarter of an hour, taking care that the water quite covers them. Let them remain in the water for about five minutes before taking them up, the pan being closely covered. They retain the heat for a long time. Cut them through when cold, and divide them lengthwise into quarters or halves, according to size. Cost, very uncertain. Wild Fowls’ Eggs.—These are coloured or spotted, and generally partake of the flavour of the bird. Those of the sea-fowd have a somewhat fishy taste, as a rule. The eggs of the guinea-fowl are small and delicate in flavour. Cost, uncertain. Eggs, Anchovy. — Bequired : eggs, butter, and anchovy paste. The eggs should bo boiled hard, and the yolks pounded with about a fourth the hulk of butter, and enough anchovy paste to season. The eggs should be cut in two, and the halves filled with tho mixture. Cut a hit from the ends so that they will stand level, and use as they are, or with salad, &c., for garnishing purposes. Eggs and Artichoke Bot- toms.—Required : an equal number of eggs, artichoke bottoms, and crou- tons, some sauce, cream, and garnish, as below. Cost, about 4s. 6d. per dozen. Heat some tinned artichoke bottoms and dish each on a crouton, tho same shape, but a trifle larger. Trim some poached eggs, lay one on each, and mask with any rich white sauce: Supreme, for choice. Heat two table- spoonfuls of cream, mix it with tho samo measure of cooked button mush- rooms, chopped and sieved, then stir in the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put a spot of this from a forcing bag in the centre of each, and garnish with tiny fancy shapes of truffle. Eggs, Baked. —Butter a saute- pan a little, and break in some eggs in the samo way as if for poaching; set it in the oven, and let the whites set, but not got hard ; sorve in tho modes directed for poached or fried eggs. Or593 EGGS. they may be cooked in a dish ready for table in this way, which is a com- mon one in France and Germany; it is called “ dished eggs ” somotime3. Eggs a la Belgravia. (See Tongue, a la Belgravia.)—Garnish with the butters used for the tongue. Eggs, Boiled.—Put the eggs in a small saucepan of boiling water by means of a spoon, so that they are dropped in gradually; then boil for three to three and a half minutes, according to taste and their size ; for a large perfectly fresh egg, allow four minutes; always remember that an egg a day or two old takes less time than a fresh one. A plan frequently adopted is to place the eggs in a sauce- pan of cold water over the fire, and serve them as soon as it boils; but this is not a reliable way, as the time taken entirely depends on the size of the saucepan and the heat of the fire. Eggs, Boiled Hard.—Put the eggs in boiling water, and cook gently for about ten minutes, rather more or less, according to size; some cooks prefer to put the eggs into cold water, and bring them to the boil very slowly, then give them from eight to ten minutes’ cooking. If to be sent to table hot, put them in cold water for a second to cool them, so that they can be handled; then take them up in a clean cloth and shell them carefully. If to be served with gravy or sauce, they can be put in it to heat, or it can be poured over them ; in this way they are often dished on toast or fried bread. If to be left until cold, drop them into a bowl of cold water and shell when required; and whether for table or for salads, or other garnishing purposes, do not shell them until they are wanted; and if to be quartered or otherwise divided, leave this operation until the last minute. .See that fresh eggs are used for salads, &c., or when cut they will be hollow at one end, and will probably smell unpleasantly. . Eggs a la Boston.—See Sauce a la Boston, and make half a pint for five or six eggs; boil them hard and take the yolks out, slice the whites and lay them on a dish, pour the sauce over and garnish with the yolks, brush them over with thin glaze, and surround them with dice-shaped crofi- tous. Cost, about Is. Eggs, Buttered. — The term “ browned eggs ” is sometimes applied to this dish. Break as many eggs as are wanted into a buttered dish ; sea- son with salt and pepper, and with nutmeg or cayenne, if liked; make some butter hot in a frying-pan, allow- ing an ounce to two eggs, let it brown, then pour it over them ; shake the dish that it may run well amongst the eggs, then set the dish on the hot plate or in the oven for the eggs to set, which they will very soon do, owing to the heat of the oven. Brown the surface with a salamander, and serve in the dish. Eggs a la Cavalier. (See Ca- valiers’ Sauce.)—Prepare an oblong slice of fried bread ; hollow the centre to hold seven fried or poached eggs in a row, pour about a taVlespoonful of the sauce over each, cover for a moment, then serve. A row of any green vegetable can be put down the sides, or some fried potatoes may be used. Cost, about Is. to Is. 2d. Eggs and Chicken in Cases. —Required: cream, chicken mince, sauce, eggs, and anchovy butler. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. Take nine small round china cases, and brush the insides with warm cream. Almost fill them with a mince, made by mixing bi'x ounces of cooked chicken with half its weight of ham, and enough rich Parsley or other sauce to moisten it; season very lightly. Poach nine eggs, trim them into noat rounds, removing most of the whites, lay one in each case, and garnish round the eggs with anchovy butter. Eggs, Cold.—{See Egc s,Stuffed.) Eggs and Cucumber. — Re- quired : bread, •cucumber, eggs, ham butter, and green butter. Cost, about Is. 3d.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 594 Fry a large oval slice of bread; it should bo cut with a crimped cutter, and just fit the inside of the dish the eggs are to bo served on. Cover this half an inch thick with rich Cucumber Puree. Boil some eggs hard, cut them through lengthwise, and form a border round the bread, laying them white and yellow side alternately. Garnish the whites with a little Ham Butter and the yolks with Green Butter, keeping the dish over hot water the while, as it must be served very hot. Put a little of the same, garnish in the centre of the sauce. Eggs, Curried.—Make a pint of curry sauce (sec Ilor Sauces); boil ten or a dozen eggs, and cut them in two across ; cut a morsel from each end so that they will stand, then put the half eggs round a hot dish and pour the sauce over; fill up the centre with half a pound or more rice, boiled as for curry (see page 660). This is substan- tial, and a good dish for any meal. Some of the yolks can bo reserved for garnishing the dish. Another loay. — Chop and fry some onions in the ordinary way; add an equal bulk of grated apple, and moisten with stock, but keep the mix- ture thick ; add curry paste to taste and a little lemon juice; stir now and then, and when done lay in some hard- boiled eggs in quarters or slices; there should bo enough of tho curry mixturo to coat thorn ; cover and let the oggs become well flavoured, then servo in a pile, with rice round ; or mako crofttons or small rounds of toast, and put little heaps of the curry on them. Chutney or hot pickles can bo added to this. Cost, from Is. Gd. to Is. 9d. when a dozen oggs are used. Eggs, Curried, Cold. — The yolks of some hard-boiled eggs should be pounded, either with cream, butter, or white sauce to moisten. A tea- spoonful of curry paste should be allowed for half a dozen eggs on an average ; this is to be mixed with stock or cream, heated, and mixed with the rest after it is cold. The half-eggs are to be filled in the usual way. (See Eggs, Stuffed.) Very useful for garnishing salads and other dishes of a piquant sort. Eggs, Devilled. —Tf to bo served hot, boil the eggs hard, and quarter or slice them, then lay them in a stewpan with enough gravy to cover them. Gravy a la Diable, see p. 85, will be found excellent r but a plainer one can be made on the same principle by using a cheapor stock. A few drops of anchovy sauco is an improvement. Serve as soon as the eggs are hot through, with strips of dry toast, or put croutons round the dish. Cost, variable. Egg Dishes for Breakfast or Luncheon. — The undermen- tioned are given more as illustrations of a few ways of preparing tasty dishes for the meals named than as recipes proper, as they may bo varied according to taste and the contents of tho larder. Cost is not given, owing to the variable nature of the dishes. No. 1.—This is a very nice dish. Break some eggs into a buttered saute- pan ; dust over with a dash of salt and pepper and a pinch of dried herbs, with a little fresh parsley scalded and chopped. Set this in the oven until the yolks are just set, then pour a little Brown Sauce on some fried or toasted bread, cut into rounds, one for each egg. Trim most of the white off, and lay an egg on each piece of bread; chop the surplus whites up, add them to a little hot tomato puree, seasoned with a dash of mustard and salt; pour this round the eggs, leaving the yolks visible, and servo hot. Seven or nine egg's make a good dish ; an odd number always dishes better than an even one. No. 2.—Chop and fry a good-sized onion, add a tablespoonful of French vinegar, a dash of French mustard, a few drops of anchovy essenco, and a little thick brown gravy. Then put in a spoonful of cold game or poultry, minced or chopped. Spread this over some bread, as in the above dish; on the top of it lay the eggs, cooked as above, or in any wayEGGS. preferred. Fut a teaspoonful of brown sauce or gravy on each yolk, and garnish with fried parsley. .Vo. 3.—Boil somo eggs hard, and fry double the number of slices of bacon and bread. These are to be a little larger than half an egg cut lengthwise. Arrange the bread on a dish for serving, lay the bacon next, then moisten it with any sauce handy—one of the brown piquant sort is as good as any —put half an egg on each, white side up, and serve hot. Xo. 4.—Cook and divide the eggs as above; spread the bread with a small quantity of thick Mushroom Sauce, put the bacon next, then the egg ; a few whole button mushrooms should be cooked, and used for garnish- ing. Xo. 5.—Put a layer of rice, cooked in any savoury manner, on a hot dish; lay in some eggs, lightly poached, then cover with more rice, marking round to show the shape of the eggs. Set this over boiling water to heat, as it is assumed that rice from a previous meal will be used. Form a border of rounds of fried bread, or bacon, or sliced tomatoes ; or, if convenient, with a vegetable puree of any sort. Xo. 6.—This is a much approved dish. Butter a shallow pie-dish or a fire-proof china one; shake bread- crumbs over, then put a layer of chopped ham and tongue or cold sausages in slices ; break three or four eggs over in a single layer, add salt and pepper and herbs of some kind, then go on with another layer of ham, &c., then more eggs, ham again, and crumbs at the top. Put bits of butter over, and brown before the fire or in the oven. This is preferably heated over water before browning, as it is less dry. Time for the eggs to just set, not to get hard, is required. This is considerably improved by moistening the meat with a little gravy, and putting a morsel of butter on each egg. This may be varied by using a little onion or celery puree in layers with the above ingredients 595 Eggs, Easter, or Coloured Eggs.—These present a very pretty appearance, and are much served abroad at Easter time. There arc many ways of preparing them, somo very complicated ; the following is the simplest we know'. If required striped or mottled, wind some silks of various colours about the eggs previous to boiling them. For self-coloured ones, a solution of spinach-juice should be used for green ones, saffron for yellow', cochineal or carmine for red. Any of the colourings referred to in this work- may be used, and by varying the quantity added to the water, paler or darker shades of the same colour may be obtained, and the eggs served in great variety. After they have boiled for a sufficient time they should be left awhile in the water, then laid on a clean cloth to dry. They look nicer if rubbed over with salad oil before serving. The water should boil fast all the time. Should a “surprise” dish be desired, the eggs should be boiled in the colouring solution, then emptied when cold, and the shells filled with jelly, blancmange, or other liquid that will set when cold. The broken shells are to be neatly joined and fastened w-ith coloured ribbon, which should be gummed or pasted round, then tied in a bow. Eggs and Flageolets. —Re- quired : a tin of flageolets, a dozen eggs, sauce, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d., exclusive of sauce. Make a puree of the flageolets (see Dressed Vegetables), boil the eggs either hard or soft, as preferred, dip them in a little warm butter, and roll them in fried bread-crumbs. Pile up eight of them in the centre of a hot dish, then put the puree round from a forcing bag, to form a border. Garnish round this with small croutons in pretty shapes, and nicely glazed. Send thick Brown Sauce to table in a boat. Any other green puree may take the place of the one given. Eggs, Fricasseed.—Required:596 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. oggs, sauce, and seasoning, with gar- nish and adjuncts as below. Cost, very variable. There is here plenty of scope for variety, and a dish of this sort is generally much liked; being somewhat more substantial than the usual run of egg dishes, a fricassee is a suitable one for luncheon or dinner. The founda- tion is a nice sauce of the white variety, to which may be added button mushrooms, or the addition of a spoon- ful or two of mushroom sauce or puree is just as suitable; flavour this nicely with salt and pepper, a dash of mace and cayenne, then pour it over the hard-boiled eggs, which may be in slices or quarters, and should be arranged on a hot dish. If the eggs are first seasoned a little, and moistened with a few drops of lemon juice, the dish is all the nicer. About half a pint of sauce to five or six eggs will be wanted. When the rich white sauces —as bechamel or supreme—are used, make no addition by way of seasoning; but any small pieces of cooked poultry or white meat may be put in, and the dish will be found very delicious. The remains of calf’s or lamb’s feet or calf’s head make admirable dishes of this kind. For a similar dish from fish, cooked white fish with a suitable sauce may be employed ; the garnish may be lemon or any such as would be suitable for the fish in the first instance. Eggs, Fricasseed, a la Bengal.—Required: eggs, onions, butter, stock, cream, bacon, seasoning, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d., exclusive of salad and chutney. This is a particularly nice way of serving eggs ; although rather more trouble than many others, the result repays it. Peel and chop enough onions to fill two tablespoons, cook them in butter without browning, then add a gill of cream, the same of good white meat stock, a pinch of grated ginger, cayenne, salt, and pepper; thicken with a tablespoonful of arrow- root, and boil up; then add a teaspoon- ful of sliced lemon in tiny dico, off the fire; this must be free from peel and pith. Have ready on a hot dish four hard-boiled eggs in dice, and an equal bulk of broiled bacon, cut up similarly; season them a little as above (salt on the bacon excepted), then pour the sauce over. Have the yolk of one etrg whole, put this in the centre, with bacon dice round it; then serve with a little dish of Bengal chutney and one of any green salad. Eggs, Fried.—At the best this is not a digestible, though it is a favourite way of cooking eggs; but it can be made more digestible by using a little fat and cooking the eggs slowly, taking care not to burn the fat; if this is done, the bottoms of the eggs get very dark and are by no means wholesome; in this state they are quite unsuited for persons of weak digestion. The frying medium may be oil, butter, lard, nice dripping, or bacon or ham fat; the latter is quite suitable if the eggs are to bo served with theso adjuncts, but see that the fat is not too dark in colour. The next thing is the pan, which should bo quite clean; so soon as the fat is hot slide the eggs in from a cup, then slackon the heat, and as soon as the whites are set take them up with a slice. Should it happen that the bot- toms are done while the tops are hardly cooked, pop the pan in the oven for a minute to finish. Take the slice in the left hand, and trim any dis- coloured parts from the white with a sharp knife in the right hand; avoid waste, but the eggs are most unsightly if not trimmed. Slide them on to the ham or bacon, if any, or on to dry or buttered toast. Fried eggs for garnishing spinach and other dishes must be so trimmed that only a clear ring of white is round each yolk. Another ivny.—Use plenty of hot fat, and as the eggs are dropped in take a wooden spoon and turn them over and over; they will puff out and look like balls; theso are often used for garnishing vegetable dishes and hashes of meat.EGGS. 597 Eggs, Fried, for Spinach and other Green Vegetables. —(See Yolks of Eggs, Fried.) Eggs an Gratin.— Required : bread, butter, seasoning, herbs, eggs, and an anchovy. Cost, about 9d. or lOd. Chop an anchovy, a shalot, and a sprig of parsley; add two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pint of fine bread-crumbs; season with salt and pepper, and strew the mixture over a flat dish that has been buttered and heated. Put the dish in the oven or before the fire for the crumbs to brown a little, then break five or six eggs and lay them on the top, sliding them on very carefully. Put the dish in the oven until the whites are just set, then serve at once. The crumbs at the bottom of the dish require mixing with eggs in the raw state; for the above quantity three will be wanted ; or a more eco- nomical dish is made by using one egg only, and a spoonful of milk, or gravy, or stock. A tiny onion is sometimes added, and for a very savoury snack rub the bottom of the dish with a clove of garlic. Eggs a la Mandarin.—Re- quired : rice, eggs, game, sauce, and bread, as below. Cost, from 4d. to 5d. per case; more when game is very dear. Put a lining of Browned Rice in oval china cases, leaving room for the half of a hard-boiled egg, cut side down. Over the egg put a little minced game that has been moistened with Mandarins’ Sauce (page 103); put a thin layer of rice over, and moisten with more sauce, dredge a few fried crumbs over, and heat in the oven, then serve on a dish with a neatly-folded napkin. Perioueux, Schiller, and Sauce t»e Madere can be used in the same way. Eggs an Miroir. — Melt an ounce of butter in a dish that will stand the oven; break in two or three eggs, and season with pepper and salt. Put the dish in the oven for a minute, then hold a salamander over, but not too near, to finish the cooking; the yolk should look cloar and transparent and the white retain a slightly bluish tint. Cost, about 4d. Eggs and Peas au Gratin. —(See the recipe for Peas au Gratin in Dressed Vegetables.) Prepare the dish as directed, but cover the surface of the peas with fried or poached eggs before sprinkling with the crumbs. When quite hot, dust over with cayenne and serve. For an elaborate dish, garnish between the eggs with stars of truffle or Braised Mushrooms. If the latter, glaze them, or coat them with Brown Sauce. Cost, according to quantity prepared, about Is. to Is. 3d. if six eggs are used. Eggs, Poached. — If an egg poacher be at hand the process is facili- tated, as all that is needed is to break each egg into the little wire receptacle, and place it in boiling water until done ; but an ordinary frying-pan or saute-pan does very well. Put in it some boiling water, and to each quart add a teaspoonful of salt and a dessertspoonful of vinegar; a little lemon juice does, or better still is French vinegar. Break each egg into a cup and slide into the water—four or five can be done together—when the water boils up draw the pan aside, and let it simmer only until done. Tho whites should look opaque ; by watch- ing, one can tell when to dish them. If only one egg, use a tiny saucepan, or one of the little fire-proof china pans called cocottcs, otherwise tho white may run, and the egg look raggy if it has too much room. In using the cocotte, butter it a little, and break tho egg in it, then put a bit of butter on the top, and sot the pan in a vessel of boiling water ; this is a very good way. Small moulds are used as substitutes, or deep patty-pans answer. Poached eggs can bo dished on toast, or ham, or bacon ; take them up with a slice and drain them ; remove the slico with care, or they may break. If598 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. nicely cooked, they want hut little trimming; only the part that may have run needs removal. Chopped parsley may be sprinkled over them, if liked. Eggs, Preserved.—The first tiling of importance is the freshness of the eggs ; if this cannot be guaran- teed, the process will result in loss and disappointment. Many ways are re- commended ; a solution of gum arabic is said to answer well. The eggs should he smeared with it, and covered when dry with bran or sawdust. They may he preserved by putting them in a net, say a dozen at a time, and plunging into boiling water, in which leave them for not more than twenty seconds. They are then packed as above. The yolks will be fairly soft, and the whites only slightly coagulated. For long keeping, the lime treatment is by many considered the best. A solution is made, in the proportion of three pounds of quick- lime, half a pound of salt, and one ounce of cream of tartar to a gallon and a half of boiling water. This is poured over the eggs when quite cold. Salt, as in all cases of food preserva- tion, is of use here. Take a dry box or barrel, cover the bottom with dry salt, and lay in as many eggs as it will take without their touching each other. Put in salt in fine powder, enough to fill all the spaces between the eggs, then add a complete layer of salt. Go on thus until full, and let the top layer be salt an inch or two in thickness. Press it down firmly, and cover with a thick cloth and a tight-fitting lid. The place of storage must be cool and dry. A plan recom- mended is to smear each egg with salad oil, and wrap up separately in tissue paper; the ends are to be twisted and threaded with worsted, then strung up in a dry, well-venti- lated place. Pure lard may be used if free from salt, and if packed in saw- dust in a tin, soldered, the eggs are said to be good for any length of time. Eggs, Pyramid of.—Required: half a pint of melted butter or white sauce, which can be of any desired richness; two ounces of grated cheese, a flavouring of nutmeg, lemon rind, salt, and pepper, and eggs as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. To the sauce as above beat in the yolks of three eggs off the fire, and after they are well amalgamated with the sauce stir in a teaspoonful of lemon j uice; have ready four hard-boiled eggs, in slices; pile these pyramid fashion on a dish, and pour the sauce over; then sprinkle some pale raspings over the surface and dredge with grated cheese; this should be Par- mesan, but that for the sauce may be half English. Put it in the oven to brown, then dot it about with the whites of two eggs that have been beaten to a froth with a pinch of cayenne and nutmeg; do this so that the brown shows between; put it back for the whites to become tinged with brown ; choose a cool part of the oven for this. Put a few sprigs of parsley about the dish, and serve at once. This is a very good savoury. The same mixture may be prepared in a number of little cases, if liked, and served one to each person. Or it can be put into scallop-shells, and served as “ scalloped eggs.” Eggs, Savoury. — (See Egos, Stuffed.) Eggs, Scrambled. — Mumbled, jumbled, and rumbled are other names given to similar preparations of eggs. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and break the eggs in us for frying; as soon as the whites are on the point of setting, stir the mass together with a spoon, and when done, they will look streaky. If dished too soon, they will rim; if left too long, they get tough. Do not let them get dark on the bottoms; great heat is not required. The mass should just set, then be served at once. Eggs, Steamed.—(See the chap- ter on Invalid.Cook.ery.) Eggs, Stuffed.—These are to be' eaten cold. For a simple dish, takeEGGS. 599 the yolks from some hard-boiled eggs, and pound with enough butter or white sauce to make a rather moist paste; then season with pepper and salt and any finely-powdered herbs, or a little store sauce or chutney, or the liquid from some thick hot pickles. Grated lemon peel and a little of the juice may be added, and a dash of cooked ham or tongue is a welcome addition. All sorts of potted meats, ns well as game and poultry, may be used up in the same way, and serve to give variety. Another way is to pound the yolks with butter, black pepper and cayenne, and chopped parsley. This forms a good breakfast dish with dry toast and a plain salad. Various kinds of gravies and sauces of the most savoury kind, mixed with the egg yolk and pounded to a soft paste, will furnish many tasty snacks. Then there are potted fish and fish essences of all sorts, which may be used as described under Eggs, Anchovy. Lobster, Balmon, sardines, shrimps, and prawns are all good thus. Eggs stuffed with cheese are excellent; English or foreign cheese may be used, but a small proportion of Parmesan should beadded, if possible. Equal parts of egg yolk, butter, and cheese, flavoured to taste with cayenne, and a hint of nutmeg, if liked, may be recommended. If the mixture is put into the half-eggs by means of a bag and pipe, the effect is prettier. (See recipes under Salads and Garnishes.) Cost of the above varies from Is. 6d. to 2s. per dozen, on an average. Egg Toasts a la Souffle.— Cut a slice of bread, round or oval, to fit the dish for table, and sufficient for seven eggs, that a portion of toast may be served with each egg. Take the crust off, toast and butter it, and lay it on the dish, then divide it into portions. Spread a little warm cream over, and season with cayenne and nutmeg, j'ust a pinch. The eggs are to be poached and cut neatly, free from most of the white, then laid on the toast. While this is being done tho following mixture is to be prepared : —Boil together half a pint of milk, a gill of cream, a pinch of salt and pepper, and an ounce of fine flour, for a few minutes; take it from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, an ounce of grated Parmesan and half as much Gruyere cheese; beat for a minute, then stir in the stiffly-whipped whites of eggs. Coat each egg with this, in such a way that the shape is apparent: this is to facilitate the serving. Set the dish over hot water in a sharp oven, and brown with a salamander, if required; the surface should bo dredged with grated cheese and fried crumbs j'ust before dishing. This is a very good dish for luncheon. The mixture will rise like a souffle if properly baked. Cost, about Is. 6d. Eggs and Vegetable Hash. —Prepare a hash of mixed vegetables, as directed in the chapter on Vege- tables ; one of a piquant kind is the most suitable. Pile it high in the middle of the dish, put a ring of eggs, cooked in any approved fashion, round the base, and one on the top, and send a brown sauce of the sharp kind to table. For a maigre dish, use Brown Sauce, Vegetarian. Cost varies with the sauce and the season. There are many ways of varying this dish, and it is good in all. Some fried crumbs can be sprinkled over the vegetables, and croutons used for garnish. Or capers may be mixed amongst the vegetables, and a little Brown Caper Sauce poured over the eggs. If the hash is composed of white vegetables, a delicate sauce, rich or plain, as preferred, is suitable. A small proportion of rice or other cereal, cooked plainly or in any piquant way, improves these dishes for most palates: it can be served round or amongst the vegetables. Eggs a la Volaille.—Required : rice, cream, poultry, garnish, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, variable. Use rice boiled as for curry, moisten with warm cream, and line tho cases as directed on page 593 ; put in a poultry mince with sauce over (see Sauce600 UNIVERSAL cookery book. Volaille) ; finish with rice, level the surface, and steam for a few minutes; sprinkle the tops with choppod tar- ragon and chervil, and the sieved liver of a fowl or a little chopped tongue. Serve hot. Cucumber or Celery sauce is equally suitable for this dish. Eggs, to Whisk. — Break the eggs by tapping the shell lightly on the edge of a basin, and drop them singly into a cup before putting them altogether. Remove the “ specks ” with a fork, and then whisk them well. A. wiro whisk, as shown, is generally Fig. 100.—Eoo Whisks. The lower pattern is useful for other pur- poses—as hatter, jellies, &c. It is slackened or tightened by moving the centre ring. preferred; those of the light kind of wire are the easiest to work. Some like a whisk made of wicker ; these are to be had of basket-makers. Eggs properly whisked are light, and will go further. When added to dishes that require vigorous beating after the blending of the ingredients, the previous beating of the eggs is of less importance; indeed, in some few instances direc- tions are given to drop them in whole. When the whites and yolks are to be separated, one is more likely to fail by being slow than quick. After the tapping on the basin, pull the shell apart, and pass the yolk rapidly from the one half to the other, letting the white drop into a basin. Whisk the yolks first, then the whites. To attain the stiff froth so often men- tioned, fresh eggs must be used (sec page 591), and a current of air will assist, so will a pinch of salt. Here a whisk is not always used. Some manage better by putting the whites on a plate or flat dish, and beating with a palette-knife. This sounds simple, but some amount of practice is necessary. It is no use to just “ tickle ” the eggs: they must be carried right over the knife; and as soon as firm, so that the plate can be turned upside down without dropping the eggs, they are ready, and must be used at once. Nest of Eggs, or Eggs in a Nest .—This may be served for an entree. Seven to nine eggs make a nice dish. Boil them hard, and when cold, take the whites and cut them in strips the length of the egg. Lay them in a tin with a little butter, anil put them in the oven, turning them about for the butter to coat them well. Then take any remnants of cooked white meat or poultry, mince, and pound it to a paste with the yolks of the eggs; a spoonful or two of any suitable sauce, or some cream or gravy, may be used to moisten the mass ; it should be nicely seasoned. Flour the hands, and make up into the size and shapo of eggs. Take a fireproof china dish, round and rather deep, put the shredded whites in to form a ring, then pile up the eggs, and pour a nice thick sauce over; any that could go to table with the meat used is suitable. Or good brown sauce or thick gravy is mostly preferred, if roast fowl be used. Set the dish over boiling water until the eggs are hot through, then serve. Cost, about Is. 4d., exclusive of the meat. Note.—The eggs can be coated with fried crumbs, if liked. Plovers’ Eggs.—These are es- teemed as a great delicacy ; they are usually boiled hard, and may be served either hot or cold. If hot, they should be sent to table in a neatly-folded serviette; if cold, in a moss-lined basket, unless more elaborate service is required. The eggs are also much used for decorating rich salads. The cost is uncertain, but they are al- ways expensive. In addition to theHOGS. G01 following, plovers’ eggs can be served in any of the best of the ways given for ordinary eggs. (See also Salads.) Plovers’ Eggs, Boiled.—Boil them in the usual way, allowing from eight to ten minutes; arrange them nicely, and if served in a napkin, garnish with parsley or a substitute. Serve brown bread and butter with them. Some dislike the method of serving in a basket above mentioned; then a napkin may be used for cold eggs: it should be prettily folded. Another way.—Shell the eggs, and lay them in little cases of fried bread (see Garnishes), then pour over them some rich sauce: amongst others, we may mention as very suitable, Becha- mel, Veloute, Supreme, Sauce Yolaille, and Sauce Italienne, W HITE. Plovers’ Eggs, Boucliees of. -—These are delicious morsels ; they can be served as an entree. Boil five or six eggs hard, cut them through lengthwise when cold, and musk the cut side with a little nice forcemeat; some pounded cooked poultry, moist- ened with rich white sauce or cream, delicately seasoned with fine herbs, and a dash of mace, white pepper, and cayenne, is the best for the purpose ; or a slice of any rich savoury pate, such as are sold in tins, answers well. Make this quite smooth, then coat with rich Frying Batter, and fry a golden brown. Pile in a serviette, and garnish with fried parsley. Cost, variable. Another xcay. — Proceed as above directed, but use some very thinly- rolled puff pastry for the cases, in- stead of batter; it should be cut in oval shapes, and the edges brought together across the top, then pinched up with the fingers; or, if preferred, the edges can be made to overlap and be neatly joined. Brush these over with beaten egg yolk, then roll them in crushed vermicelli, and fry as before. If the paste for these is not thin, they are a failure, as the moment they are a pale brown they are to be taken up, and should the paste be thick it will have a raw taste. Drain on paper before serving. Plovers’ Eggs, in Cases.— Required : eggs, forcemeat, and gar- nish, as below. Cost, variable; from Gd. or 8d. each, inclusive, on an average. Take some fireproof china cases, one for each egg, coat them round the bottom and sides with chicken force- meat, such as is described above; or it can be made more savoury by frying a chopped mushroom or two with the herbs, and mixing with it. Break an egg into each, and cover with another layer of forcemeat, making it even by the aid of a warm palette-knife. Set these in a tin of boiling water in the oven, and let them simmer for about a quarter of an hour or until firm ; or a potato steamer can be used if the tops of the moulds are covered with buttered paper, and the water allowed to boil very slowly. Turn out on a hot dish, pour a little rich white sauce over, and sprinkle them alternately with chopped truffle, parsley, and grated ham; do this as quickly as possible, and serve at once. Plovers’ Eggs, Fritters of.— Required : boiled eggs, sausage meat, batter, and a raw egg. Cost varies with the forcemeat. Take for six eggs about twelve ounces of rich veal sausage meat, or any preferred (see the chapter on Sausages). Shape this into a roll, and tie it in a buttered cloth, then cook it in a potato steamer for about half an hour; it should be the circumference of an egg in its shell in its thickest part. When this is cold, cut it in slices the sixth of an inch thick. Take the eggs, boiled hard and left to cool, cut the ends off, then slice them in the same way. Spread the sausage slices out on a board: there should be as many again as there are slices of eggs ; lay a slice of the latter between two of meat, and press them together, sandwich mode; then brush round theUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G02 edges with raw beaten egg, and dip them in frying batter; fry and serve like the Bouchees. The tips of white that were cut off will come in for garnishing salads. Whites of Eggs, Poached.— Butter a plain white jar, such as is used for jam, or a plain tin mould, and put in whites of eggs to an inch or so in depth, then set the jar in a saucepan, with boiling water round it, or place it in a potato steamer; lay a buttered paper over, and cook until firm, then set by to get cold, and turn out. Small moulds can be used, but in this way the eggs will cut up to better advantage. For the uses of this, see Garnishes. Yolks of Eggs, Fried.—In some instances the whites of eggs are disliked and left; and in others a good portion is cut away when eggs are prepared for garnishing spinach and other purees. The following mode will enable anyone to cook the yolks only, and then the whites can be used for other purposes. The eggs must be quite fresh for this method, as the perfect separation of the two parts is important. Drop each yolk into a tiny patty-pan, buttered very slightly; lay them in water prepared as for poached eggs, letting it come over the tops; cook until they' will slip from the pans, then lay them in cold water, that they' may' not harden. Take them up in a few minutes and drain on a cloth, then fry them in a little hot fat; just give them a second or two, and pour the fat over the top with a spoon. If any' of the white is by chance left on, it will form a ring that can be removed. These look pretty laid in rings of fried bread when for garnishing. Yolks of Eggs, Poached.— Poach these in water as above, then drain on a cloth, and at once lay them in a saute pan and pour a little hot cream over; leave for a minute, then serve ; they look nice on a green puree.PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. To classify vegetables strictly is by no means an easy task; one person might urge that arrowroot, being the product of the root of a plant, should be placed in this group; while another might contend that a cucumber or tomato would be more fittingly grouped with fruits. Exact classification must, therefore, give way to custom; and the methods of serving the various edibles, for which recipes are given iu the following pages, have influenced their arrangement. We will first consider the vegetable world iu the shape of roots and tubers ; green plants, iu the form of leaves, stems, and stalk, and the fruit of the plant; edible fungi; and lichens and seaweed. Of l-oots and tubers, carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, parsnips, beetroot, and Jerusalem artichokes afford familiar examples. Of green plants, cabbages, asparagus, marrows, pumpkins, spinach, tomatoes, and celery may be regarded as every-day types ; with which must be grouped the entire salad tribe, various wild plants, and pot-herbs of all sorts. Of fungi, the most largely used are mushrooms and allied species, as the truffle and the morel; these are called cryptogamic or flowerless plants. Of the lichen and seaweed family, Iceland moss, Irish moss, and laver illustrate the composition, and aro types of the whole range. To enjoy fresh vegetables in perfection is the lot of comparatively few people. To compare a dish of peas or a cabbage, culled from one’s own garden iu the early morning and cooked for the mid-day meal, with garden produce that has been closely packed and brought many miles by rail or road, then further exposed for a day or two iu the greengrocer’s shop, would be tantamount to saying that a mackerel which has lain in the dust and sun of a hot street is equal to one fresh from the sea. The thing is to get our vegetables as fresh as circumstances permit, then to make the most of them. But do we make the most of them ? We fear not, and we believe that most of the charges brought against ns in this respect have much truth in them. One of the most frequent is the charge of neglect. It has been said that a number of the most common of our wild plants, that make wholesome and pleasant dishes, and that can be had for the gathering, are unknown to hosts of our peasantry ; the British pig, as he roams about our hedges and ditches, gets the benefit of his owner’s ignorance. Another accusation is that of prejudice in the. matter of diet, especially vegetable diet; in short, this branch of the cuisine is declared to be but little understood in our tight little island. As to tasty ways of serving, those who are best able to judge assure us that scores of dainty dishes, that are regarded as every-uay preparations across the Channel, are practically unknown to the majority of English people. And with regard to our ‘‘ plain vegetable cookery,” we are all pretty familiar with the assertion that by the utilisation of the soluble salts, that are washed out of our plants by our ordinaryUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 604 methods of boiling, mid which eventually find their way down the sink, we should all be the richer both in health and pocket: this point surely is worthy of attention. But how are these salts to be retained ? Mainly by management and forethought. In many casos the water from celery, carrots, and other vegetables forms the basis of soup ; but everybody does not take soup, and there are other ways of using it up. Supposing the dinner to-day is composed of boiled meat, with the usual adjuncts-carrots, turnips, &c.; and to-morrow’s meal is to be a stew of fresh meat and vegetables; many poople would boil down to-day's pot liquor, and use it with any left-over vegetables, but au equal number would throw it away. Want of thought, rather than wilful waste, has most to do with acts of this sort. Another way to get the benefit of the saline matter is to cook such vegetables as admit of it in a small quantity of water. The cabbage family are, of course, excepted; neither could one use the concentrated liquor from boiled onions. But take, for example, a bunch of spring carrots: why should they be boiled, as they often are, in a gallon of water, and that thrown away ? A less quantity would often get used up, in the above or some other way, where a huge potful is poured off. It has been rightly said that our system of plainly cooked plants for service witli animal food is right enough in principle, and well suited to the average digestion; but it must be carried out with judgment, to avoid loss of their good properties. And here wo may very fittingly say a few words about purees. A puree forms a pleasant variety at table; it may be very attractive in appearance ; it may be so cooked, as shown farther on, as to retain to tho full both flavour and nutriment; while it is a most digestible way of preparing vegetables. Some people do not masticate their vegetables; others cannot. A puree is freed from skins, seeds, and tough fibres; and it is noteworthy that cases are quite common where a particular vegetable, served whole, causes suffering, while in puree form it is digested without inconvenience. It seems, therefore, a matter for regret that any vegetable should be condemned ns indigestible until it has been tried as a puree. The little extra trouble entailed by the process is not worth consideration, compared with the foregoing and other advantages : special mention must be mado of the facilities afforded by purees for tho using up of many remnants, and tho introduction of a variety of wholesome seasonings—as herbs, &c. So far, wo have for the most part dealt with vegetables as adjuncts; and, no doubt, much of tho monotony complained of in this branch of cookery is due to this habit of regarding vegetables, with few exceptions, “ as an accident, or a something to be thrown in.” English dinner tables of the artisan and middle-class population are seldom furnished with a dish of vegetables as a separate course ; but we are one with the French chef who said that such an innovation would lead to general reform in matters of diet. Such variety as is here referred to need not be either costly or very troublesome. Take the most ordiuary of the class, say a cabbage, or cauliflower, or a dish of beans or potatoes; and it is surprising wnat deft manipulation with other inexpensive materials will accomplish. To go a step higher, it is not too much to say that in thousands of English homes, where meat is served in pleuty, such dishes605 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. as peas iu buttor, celery or ouious stewed in stock, spinach with oggs, or a curry of mixed vegetables are nevor served. In some houses they would be voted very extravagant. As to the dainty fritter, not of necessity costly, how many—or, rather, how few—of those who eat them abroad ever venture on their concoction in their own kitchens ? These remarks are not made to urge vegetarianism, or to bring the arguments of vegetarians prominently forward; but it is certain that a number of vegetable dishes would furnish a welcome change iu many homes where the butcher’s bill is a weekly bugbear. A meal minus animal food will, if properly planned, meet the full requirements of the human frame. But here judgment is required, and attention to the class of vegetables known as pulse, for the preparation of which see the preceding chapter. Now a few words on preserved vegetables. The term “preserved” includes dried or desiccated, and bottled and tinned vegetables. The dried ones are dealt with under their respective headings; and very useful they are, as substitutes for the fresh article; but they can only be looked upon as substitutes, and we fully agree that their use as a regular thing is the result of ignorance or indolence. In the drying process much of the flavour and juices are lost; though, in the latter respect, some sorts suffer more than others. To campers-out they are a boon ; and of course, under any circumstances, it is better to use dried vegetables than to go without entirely. The remembrance of two points in connection with all goods of the desiccated class may save loss and disappointment. One is exclusion of the air; this is of the first importance ; therefore, it is plain that such as are sold in paper packets must soon become almost worthless. They absorb damp, lose flavour, and may turn mouldy. Tho next thing is the advantage of using a scrap of fresh vegetable or herb to revive the flavour; it is surprising what an improvement may thus be effected. The best French brands are so blended as to need no such addition; we are referring more especially to the ordinary cheap varieties. As to the canned vegetables, we have given under their separate headings particulars of the chief kinds that may be bought in this form ; also a few recipes for the home preservation of some of them ; and it is with the latter that we are now dealing. We do not think that it will pay anybody to buy vegetables for the purpose of canning them, and we use the word “ canning ” iu its broad sense, as iu America, and apply it both to bottled and tinned goods. Neither do we think that, on the whole, the vegetables will be found as good, or give as much satisfaction, as the bought ones. We do not wish to discourage anyone from making a trial; but the art of canning is less understood here than abroad, and other climates are more favourable to the ripening of tho vegetables. The very greatest care will (in England) not always result in success. It is of the first importance that the weather be fine at the time of gathering, and that the vegetables be uniformly ripe. It is sheer waste of time and material to take 6ome old or over-ripe and bruised, and the rest not fully grown. It is also absolutely necessary that the air bo excluded and that the place for storing be neither hot nor damp. Many declare that light is bad ; but we cannot think that it has any serious offect on properly canned goods : for if it had, ninety-nine per cent, of the articlesUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. C06 bought of a grocer might reasonably be expected to turn out a failure, considering the window exposure. For actual details, reference must be made to recipes ; but we may here say a word in favour of the method of bottling detailed under Tomatoes later on. It is simple, clean, aud inexpensive; the first cost is not great, and there is the advantage of being able to see how the contents are keeping. We believe we are correct in stating that the bottles in question are the first of the kind made in England, and although introduced at first for fruit preservation, they are quite as well adapted for vegetables. In both instances they meet a decided want. In conclusion, the preservation of vegetables by means of salicylic acid warrants mention; because so much lias been written about it. By many it has been highly recommended as a fruit and vegetable pre- servative ; and there seems no doubt that it is a certain antiseptic and prevents fermentation. On the other hand, certain members of the medical profession have condemned the method. By taking any food so preserved, small doses of “ salicine ” would be taken with it, and to some persons the most minute quantities are hurtful. It is therefore safer, to say the least, to dispense with that or any other drug so uncertain in its action. Of other food preservatives, some of them sold under faucy names, for such purposes as we are now discussing, we have had no personal experience; but it is not too much to say that they should be used with extreme caution; what may be perfectly harmless in one case may be the reverse in another; the old maxim that one man’s meat is another man’s poison, applies with a peculiar and special force to food preserved by the aid of drugs. Artichokes, Chinese.—These are curiously-shaped spiral rootlets, said to be of a more dainty flavour than their cousins of Palestine. Be- sides being used as a vegetable, they may bo cooked with cheese, curried, and. prepared in many other ways as a savoury ; they are also sent to table with a dressing of anchovy or other sauce at the commencement of dinner. They will boil in about twenty minutes, and are considered very digestible. In the opinion of a writer, no sauce is 60 good with them as Chestnut Sauce. He also recommends that Chinese artichokes be planted freely in the West of Ireland, and the islands off, as they would be very useful vege- tables to fall back upon in case of part failure of the potato crop. The bulb is said to be so hardy that it matters little how much frost or rain, or how little sun it gets; and it seems likely that in a short time it will be as well j known and almost as cheap as the potato. Artichokes, Globe. — This is a very nice vegetable, and, unlike Artichoke.PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G07 many other kinds, may be kept a day or two without injury; they are rather expensive, sometimes as much as 5d. or 6d. each, but 2d. to 4d. is a more usual price. They are much used for separate dishes, and can he dressed in various ways. The illus- Fio. 108.—Artichoke in Section. A The Leaves. B The Choke. C The Bottom. trations above show the artichoke whole, and in section: for some dishes the choke is removed; for others, the bottoms only are used ; in such cases the tinned ones answer (see next chapter). Artichokes, Globe, Boiled.— Soak them in cold salted water, upside down, for an hour or two; they should be most carefully washed and looked over, that any insects may bo dislodged. The stalk should be trimmed off, also the hard leaves Tound the bottom, and the points of the rest of the leaves should be clipped. The water should be fast boiling with salt, about a teaspoonful to the quart; cook them until a leaf can be easily polled out, from twenty-five to forty minutes if quite young; but fully- grown ones will take much longer— from an hour upwards. Drain well, npsida down, and dish with sauce over, or in a boat. All the good white sauces, as usually served with vegetables, are suitable; but Dutch is one of the best; some give the pre- ference to Oiled Buttek, and Melted Butter is very generally liked. Another way.—Boil as above, but add an ounce of butter to the water, and a bunch of herbs; this is a common French way of boiling. Dish in a nicely-folded napkin laid in a hot dish, and serve quickly. Artichokes, Jerusalem. — These tubers have been grown in England for nearly three centuries; they are generally liked and are con- sidered wholesome. They are not starchy like potatoes, therefore do not become mealy when boiled. No vege- table needs more care in the prepara- tion and cooking in the very simplest form. A careless cook will spoil both appearance and flavour very readily. Cost, about 2d. per pound. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled.—Wash them thoroughly, then peel them. They look nicer if trimmed into a round or an oval form, or they are sometimes cut to form a pyramid; but as these methods entail waste, and are not necessary foraplain dish, the artichokes may be plainly peeled, just to look as even as possible. If the cuttings can be used for soup, or in any other way, then they can be shaped as described above, or in any other form according to fancy. While peeling, keep them under water as much as possible, and throw them instantly into plenty of cold water, with a few drops of white vinegar or lemon juice. Have ready boiling a large saucepan of water with salt, at least a heaped teaspoonful to the quart : unless well salted they aro most insipid. Put them in, and boil from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to age and size. That all may be dono together, it is advisable to put the largest in first (see Boiled Potatoes). The very moment they are done, strain them ; if left in the water after this point is reached, they become flavourless and discoloured.608 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Have a hot dish ready, and either rub the artichokes over with a morsel of cold butter, or pour White Sauce or Melted Butter over them. A hint of chopped parsley may be sprinkled here and there by way of garnish. For the sake of extra whiteness, some cooks boil these in milk and water, or parboil in water and finish in milk ; ■and if very old, some favour cold or tepid water in place of boiling- water, but in our opinion, when cold water is usod, the artichokes are robbed of flavour and nutriment. Old ones are best mashed ; recipes under Turnips can be referred to for plain dishes. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Fried.—This way is a failure unless tho fat bo really hot. The artichokes should be very thinly sliced, washed, and dried, and put in a frying basket, then plunged into enough fat to cover them; when golden-brown tho basket should be shaken, and the vegetables sprinkled with salt and pepper (some- times cayenne and nutmeg are added), then served with lemon juice or vine-* gar, and bread and butter, if to be oaten as a separate course; or they may go to table with meat, &c., just as fried potatoes are served. Parboiled artichokes can bo fried halved or whole. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Stewed.—Required: artichokes, sea- soning, milk, butter, corn-flour, and bread, as below. Cost, 6d. to 8d. Peel, wash, and slice a pound and a half of artichokes; dry tl*m and put them in an earthen jar vMh enough milk and water to cover;' add a few peppercorns, salt to taste, a grate of nutmeg and ginger, a few drops of lemon juice, and a pinch of celery salt. Cover the jar and cook at a very moderate heat until the artichokes are tender. Take out the peppercorns, add a slight thickening of corn-flour and milk mixed smoothly, and an ounce of butter, with a dash of cay- enne, and another squeeze of lemon to bring out the other flavours. Boil for a few minutes, and servo in a pile, on a round of fried bread or hot buttered toast. This looks prettier if a few little Brussels sprouts, or tufts of any other green vegetable be put about tho dish. Some dried green haricots, plainly boiled, or a puree, also answer the purpose. (See the various recipes in the preceding chapter.) The flavouring of the above can be varied to taste, all sorts of herbs can be added, and many of the spiced vinegars and other liquid seasonings would give additional zest. Asparagus. — This delectable vegetable is a favourite wherever in- troduced, and is one of the few to which English people grant the privi- lege of a separate course. Very fine asparagus is grown in France; the variety called “ giant asparagus ” is a good sort to buy, tho stalks being so tender as to bo all eatable. Asparagus is also imported from Spain and other countries, but its excellence on arrival depends very much upon the state of the weather at tho time of packing and in transit. English grown comes into season later, and is smaller and greener than the French. The cost of asparagus is extremely variable, but it is never really cheap, and seldom within the reach of ordinary middle- class families; but it may occasionally be bought for Is. 6d. to 2s. per hun- dred, though 5s. or 6s. is a common price, and 10s. may be asked for it. It is very much a question of supply and demand. It is, however, likely that asparagus will be cheaper in the near future, as its cultivation on a more extended scale and under different conditions is receiving attention. Tinned asparagus comes as a boon to people who cannot afford the fresh vegetable; for while the tinned is usually reliable, the quality of the fresh is generally doubtful when it is low-priced. Asparagus, Boiled.—Place the green tops evenly together, then cut the stalk end, so that when done they shall be all the same length. Scrape the lower ends lightly, and lay the asparagus in cold water for a time609 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. before cooking, then tie the bundles with tape, and put them in plenty of boiling water, salted slightly; cook uncovered gently; when done, take up with a slice and drain on a sieve; then dish on toast, the green part inside, and the stalks outwards. The toast was formerly always dipped in the asparagus water, and sometimes buttered; but now it is as often left dry. As to sauce, if two dishes of asparagus go to table, one may be coated with it—White Sauce, or Melted Butter, or any of the richer varieties as Dutch—but if one dish only, it is better to serve the sauce in a boat, as some persons dislike it ex- tremely. Time, about twenty minutes, more or less, according to size and quality. Brown looking ends and drooping heads are signs of staleness; the fresher it is the quicker it will boil. As a further precaution against breaking, it is a good plan to tie the asparagus in muslin; or the heads to h;ilf the depth of the stalk may be thus protected, the stalk itself will not hurt, the green part easily breaks. Asparagus, Boiled, Ameri- can.—Cover the points with coarse muslin, bind the bundles in a couple of places with wide tape; then cook in boiling water with salt and a morsel of butter. When done pile on toast, and put bits of cold butter between the stalks, just as it goes to table. This i3 a very nice way of serving. Asparagus, Boiled, French. —Boil until done, but let a slight crispness remain, and whatever the kind of white sauce used, let the asparagus liquor be used in making it; send it to table separately, and serve the asparagus neatly in a hot folded napkin, in preference to dishing it on toast. Lemon juice always improves the sauce. For other methods, see next chapter. Asparagus, Steamed.—Weare indebted to Sir Henry Thompson for this recipe. He says : “ A hint about boiling asparagus is worthy of mention, since the proper method is rarely followed by English cooks. Asparagus of the stouter sort, always when of the giant variety, should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing heads upward in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water—the steam sufficing to cook them—as they form the tender- est part of the plant; while the hard stalky part is rendered soft and succu- lent by tho longer boiling which this plan permits. Instead of the orthodox twenty minutes allotted to average asparagus, lying horizontally in the English manner, which half cooks the stalk and over-cooks the head, diminishing its flavour and consistence, a period of thirty or forty minutes on the plan recommended, will rendci fully a third more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be properly cooked by the steam alone. One reason why it is not uncommon to hear the best produce of the fields of Argenteuil insufficiently appreciated here, and our own asparagus preferred, is that the former is rarely sufficiently cooked at English tables.” So far as the cooking alone goes, this mode leaves nothing to be desired; but the removal from the pan is not quite so easy as when cooked in the orthodox way, in a flattish stewpan. Here one cannot take hold of the bundle or bundles, and the vegetable slice is not practicable, because of the depth of the pan. The only thing is to slide the asparagus out very tenderly, on to an inverted siove, with a cloth laid in it. By steadying the heads with the left hand, covered by a cloth, while the saucepan is withdrawn— supposing the right degree of cooking has not been exceeded—there will bo little fear of breaking it. Asparagus, Tinned.—This is one ot the best of the tinned vege- tables : some is imported from America. This is large generally, and moderate in price, from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per tin, enough for a good dish. The French asparagus is smaller and rather TUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 610 more expensive. Bottled asparagus is also to be had by those who are pre- judiced against tinned goods; this is of the very best quality and higher in price than the tinned. To heat a tin of asparagus for table, put it into cold water, and bring it to the boil; it should then be left until heated, from ten to twenty minutes according to size, and opened, holding it with a cloth. If the liquor in the tin is not used for sauce, it should be added to soup or some other dish, as it contains some flavour. Asparagus heads, or points, are also tinned (see next chapter). The above is the method recommended by many firms who deal in this class of goods, and it is adopted at soveral cooking schools. Others, who also speak from practical knowledge, con- tend that no vegetables should be reheated in the tins. One says:— “ Asparagus should be turned out on to a fish drainer, and, if possible, steamed by resting the drainer on two jars in the kettle to keep it out of the water.” This is worth attention ; but we suggest in place of a fish kettle, unless it is one kept apart from that used for fish, that a substitute in the shape of a close wire meat-stand or pastry-rack on legs be employed; either could be set in a vessel with just enough water to create steam. The difficulty in dealing with tinned asparagus is that it is tender, and the more it is handled, the greater the risk of breaking it. The writer quoted above says of pens, that the water should bo drained from them, and they should be put in an enamelled saucepan with a little butter, to prevent burning, then the sugar, if necessary, and a little salt and mint be added. (See Peas, page 671.) Aubergines. — These are ver3' delicate ana delicious if nicely cooked. In hot countries they grow wild, and are cultivated in the South of Europe. The colour varies from white to yellow, and from dark purple to red; the purple are considered the best. They are very extensively eaten in France. The seeds must be removed., however they may be cooked. Epicures as- sert that there is no way of cooking equal to braising ; “oil top and bottom of the vegetables, and fire under and over, will ensure good results, if the oil bo pure and the firo gentle.” Cost, very uncertain; sometimes to be had for a few pence each. Aubergines, Broiled. —This is an easy and inexpensive method. Cut the aubergines through; cut up the inside part with a hint of garlic, or shalot or onion, if preferred; season well with salt, white pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg; mix in a few bread- crumbs, and replace the mixture in the cut halves. Moisten well with fresh olive oil, and cook gently before the fire ; or grill over a clear fire, if more convenient, using a little oil to moisten from time to time. Aubergines, Fried, ala New Orleans.—-Slice the plant a quarter of an inch thick; dust it with cayenne and salt, and roll it in fine dry flour. Put some good cotton seed, or other oil, in a flying pan; brown a few slices of onion in it first, then skitn them out, and drop in the slices. Give them about ten minutes’ cooking; the heat is to be reduced after the first minute, or the oil may burn. Drain well, and serve with no sauce but hunger. This is a favourite in Louis- iana. Young leeks may be cooked in the same way. Balm.—This is a garden plant with tonic properties; useful in many non-alcoholic drinks, and for adding to claret cup and similar compounds, to which it imparts fragrance and flavour. Basil.—The perfume of basil is very fragrant; it is something like that of cloves. It is considered a good addition _ to mock turtle, and other gelatinous soups, and has the character of extreme wholesomeness. Bay leaves. — Owing to the kernel-like flavour of these leaves, they are used in sweet as well as savoury cookery; they form an ingredient ofPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. Gil the “ bunch of herbs ” so often men- tioned in cookery books generally. They should be usod in moderation, and in many dishes it is sufficient to let the bay leaves, or bunch of herbs, as the case may he, remain in the gravy, or other liquid used for the dish,' hut a short time only. For many dishes a pinch of powdered hay leaves is enough; a stock of both the fresh and the dried, which should he powdered very finely, is useful in every kitchen. Bay leaves enter into many mixtures of herbs and spices {see the chapter on Seasonings). Beans, Broad (or Windsor). —These are excellent eating when young. They are a favourite accom- paniment of ham or hacon. Although mostly seen on the tables of the poor and middle-class population, broad beans are convertible into dainty dishes, and in this form make their appearance at first-class dinners. Cost, usually about fid. or 8d. per peck, when plentiful. Broad beans are much nicer, and more digestible, when freed from the outer skin, there being a very pronounced difference between that and the inner green portion. When this is done, the husks (so-called) need not be wasted ; if boiled for a long time, the water from them can be strained off, and with the addition of vegetables or cereals, will make nour- ishing soup. Cold beans make a good salad. Beans, Broad, Boiled.—-For a perfectly plain dish, shell and wash the beans, and put them on to boil in salted boiling water. Young ones will be done in twenty minutes, or a trifle under; older beans will take about half an hour. The skins will look wrinkled, and the inner bean may bo easily slipped out between the thumb and finger when ready to serve. Drain in a hot colander, and serve hot. A lump of butter, and a pinch of salt and pepper, should be shaken amongst the beans, if no Parsley Sauce is served with them. Another way.—Boil a good hunch of herbs with the beans; drain when nearly done, and put them in a clean saucepan with a little oil or butter, and some chopped parsley; toss them until heated through. Fry some dice- shaped pieces of bread, and sprinkle them over the beans after dishing. Serve egg sauce with these. This is a good maigre dish. Beans, Broad, Boiled (Supe- rior).— Take off the husks before boiling, and cook them precisely the same as peas. They are excellent; and, thus boiled, may be served with any good sauce, either with meat, or as a separate dish. A very good dish is made by boiling them with a bunch of herbs in the water, then drain, and add some Maitre d’Hotel Butter at the moment of serving. The slightest suspicion of garlic may be added. Another good sauce is obtained from Melted Butter; it should be slightly thicker than given in our recipes, and to each half pint, a teaspoonful each of French vinegar and onion vinegar, with a bint, of garlic, should be added; some very finely-powdered herbs may be put in last tiling. This goes well with pork or bacon; or the beans can go to table alone, or with a garnish of sliced eggs, and the sauce in the centre. Beans, Broad, Mashed.— This is really the only way in which plainly boiled beans, when old, can be served to advantage. After boiling as above directed in the first method, until quite soft, remove the skins, and mash the beans with a fork, or pass them through a sieve. A little hot stock can be used to soften them ; or a spoonful of milk, with a slice of butter in it, is even better. When smooth, add salt and pepper, and re-heat them. Parsley can be chopped and mixed in, or the usual adjunct, Parsley Sauce, be served with them. Beans, French, or Kidney. —Perhaps no vegetable is more popu- lar than this. One variety is largely grown abroad for the sake of the inner bean, so much eaten in the freBh state.,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 612 and which we got dried in the form of haricots. The pods should be young ; when fully grown they want very care- ful preparation in the way of stringing and cutting; it is surprising the difference in the flavour of carelessly cut beans. When quite plainly boiled, French beans are excellent with roast meat—thoy are said by some to be the one vegetable to eat with venison —but they may be served in many nice ways as separate dishes, and thoy make excellent salads. The green pods of the scarlet runner are eaten in the same way, and closely resemble the French or kidney bean. Cost, vari- able ; about 2d. per pound, when plenti- ful, but much dearer early in the season. Beans, French, to Bottle.— Follow the instructions given for Peas on page 639. The beans should be cut as if for boiling. Young beans may just be brokon through after stringing, if more convenient. Another way.—This is very simple, and either jars or bottles can be used, the beans being broken or cut as pre- ferred. Put them on a large dish, and rub two lumps of dry salt together in the hands; it should be quite warm ; let it fall over the beans, then take two wooden spoons or sticks, and toss them together that all parts may be equally coated. Have the jars dry, and put in salt and beans in alternate layers until full, salt forming the bottom and top layers. Tie down with bladder (vegetable parchment will not do), and store in a cool, dry place. Thoy will shrink a good deal, and the contents of some of the jars may be used for filling up the others from time to time. Some may question the necessity for salti ng the beans separately before putting them in the jars; but without this the layers of salt do not penetrate the beans sufficiently. In cooking these use no salt, but add a pinch of sugar and borax to the water; do not stint the water, and boil rather longer than usual. Thoy will want soaking in plenty of cold water first. Beans, French, Boiled.— Gather the beans as short a time as possible before cooking; very small ones are cooked whole, the tips and side strings removed. More fully grown ones are first trimmed in this way, then cut into thin slanting strips. They should be rinsed in cold water, then put into boiling salted water. Time, according to age, fifteen ox- twenty minutes for young ones; old ones take nearly or quito half an hour. Beans cannot be sliced too thinly; this is a tedious process when a quantity have to be cut, and a handy little machine, called a bean cutter, will bo found serviceable ; it will slice to per- fection enough for half a dozen people in a few minutes. No vegetable spoils more by waiting, and a hot colander should be used for straining, and the hottest of plates served. A slice of butter may be shaken with the beans when likod, but they are frequently preferred plain. For a vegetarian dish, add some oil or butter after the beans are drained; a seasoning of chopped parsley is an improvement, with a little salt and pepper; some like nutmeg, and others will rub tho saucepan over with a clovo of garlic. The beans look nice served in a border of rice or macaroni, over which White Sauce should be poured. Plenty of water and quick boiling with the lid off will ensure a good colour. A pinch of soda or borax is, however, optional. Beans, French, Boiled (French Method).—Brain after boiling ; return to a clean pan, and add oil or butter, with seasoning to taste, and a little lomon juice ; shake the pan until hot through. An ounce of butter will serve for a quart of beans. Beans, French, Moulded.— When the beans are old, and it is likely that they would be tough in the plainly-boiled state, cook them until done, then chop them, or rub them through awire sieve,and add ateaspoon- ful of mixed herbs to each quart, with seasoning to taste ; or, instead of herbs, a few young onions may be boiled and613 PLAIN' VEGETABLE COOKERV. added; or a small proportion of any green vegetable. A couple of raw eggs should be mixed in, and the beans pressed into a plain mould or basin, and baked until they will turn out. Send to table with meat, or as a maigre dish. Then it looks nice ornamented a little; some sieved hard-boiled egg yolk is suitable; the white may be cut into rings and put round the base ; or some fried bread-crumbs, or plain raspings, may be used. Sometimes bread-crumbs are mixed in to give more consistence. Beans, French, Puree of.— Old beans are best boiled and made into a puree by sieving; they want only a little butter or oil, and a slight seasoning, with a minute's re-heating, to make a good plain dish; chopped parsley improves them, so does lemon j uice. Or if to serve with meat, after sieving, a spoonful or two of sauce or gravy may be used to moisten the puree; the flavour is excellent. To a puree of this sort some other vege- table is sometimes added—lettuce or young cabbage,’for instance. Serve in a pile, and very hot. A flavouring of tarragon is a very pleasant one. Beans, Lima.—These beans are American favourites, and may be bought in England in tins, at about the same price as canned com and succotash. By mixing Lima beans with canned com, a very good substi- tute for succotash is obtained; the exact proportions can be regulated by taste, but generally more com than beans is liked. When these beans are to be served alone, follow the direc- tions on the tins. Another nice dish is obtained from a tin of Lima beans, mixed with some boiled French or kidney beans when in season. They are also nice for salads, if drained and dried; the liquor and any broken ones being used in soups and stews. Try a dinner of a tin of Lima beans with some fried ham and eggs, and a gener- ous supply of Parsley Sauce ; or by way of a change with Celery Sauce ; or leave out the eggs, and serve ham, bacon, or pickled pork with the beans, and a tureen of Melted Butter, with a dash of mustard, and a spoonful of lemon juice. Other changes can be rung upon these homely but excellent commodities. Beetroot.—The red garden-beet, which has long been grown in England, is a very popular vegetable, and valued on account of its beautiful colour; it is much used as garnish to various dishes, and is one of the nicest and most wholesome of all the pickles, being one of the few vegetables cooked before pickling. The garden-beet is rich in sugar. Beetroot is sometimes baked, but unless most carefully done it is spoiled in appearance ; the colour suffers, and if the heat is too great, it becomes shrivelled. Cost, about 2d. to 4d. per root on an average. (Sec Garnishes, Pickles, Salads, &c., for other recipes.) Beetroot, Boiled.—Free it from mould, but do not attempt to cut it before boiling, or, to use the term usually applied, it will “ bleed ” in the water, and lose its colour; henco it must be most carefully washed, that the skin may remain unbroken. Put it in boiling water, and cook it steadily, from an hour to three hours, accord- ing to size : two hours will cook a medium sized one. Take up care- fully ; a good deal of the peel can be removed by rubbing it; only cut where necessary. If to be served hot, plunge it in cold water for a moment before peeling; if for a salad, let it get cold. Small beet may go to table whole, with Melted Butter or White Sauce poured over; larger beet is better sliced, or cut lengthwise into quarters. The thin ends can bo cut off, and placed round the sliced thick part, if several are served together; small heaps of green vegetable in between will make a more inviting dish. Borage. — A writer says that “Borage has the credit of being a great cordial, but its virtues are best obtained by a cold infusion; thereforeUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G14 tho custom of «putting it into cold drinks, of which claret cup is an average specimen, is a wise one.” This is, we think, one of the chief uses of this plant. Bottled Vegetables. — See Beans, Peas, and Tomatoes. Broccoli. — This so much re- sembles Cauliflower that the same recipes answer for the cooking of it. We may remind the reader that the leaves need not he wasted, but can be cooked like large white cabbages, with which everyone is familiar. The thick parts may be stripped from them, not for the purpose of throwing them away, but that they may go into the boiling pot before the tender parts. A dish of these leaves, with a few slices of 1mm or bacon, and a tureen of plain sauce, is a meal not to bo despised on account of its cheapness. Brussels Sprouts.—These are a very nice green vegetable, welcome at almost every table ; they are whole- some, and, as a rule, fairly cheap, about 2d. per pound. The sprouts want going over one by one; the Btems cut evenly, and any outer decayed leaves removed; the part to cook should look like a tiny compact cabbage. Soak for an hour in cold, salted water, after many times rinsing, then drain in a colander, and put them in the boiling water by degrees, that they may not take the water off the boil. Have a good supply of water, and salt it as for cabbage. Boil with the lid off, from twelve to fifteen minutes, if very small and tender; some sprouts may take twenty minutes. Drain very thoroughly on a sieve, or in a colan- der, and serve very quickly; sprouts soon become absolutely cold. With regard to the pressing of sprouts, if they are to be plainly served with a joint, say roast beef, unless time can bo given for them to drain well, and they are afterwards re-heated as under- mentioned, it is well to press them a little to get rid of the water, for nothing is more unpleasant than to find one’s plate of gravy diluted with the water from greens; yet, they should retain their shape, and after the slight pressure should be well shaken up. But, if the sprouts are to receive the addition of White Sauce, or to be finished off spinach fashion, then drain them without pressure, and put them back in a clean saucepan over tho fire, that the moisture may be got rid of by evaporation, with a little butter, salt, and pepper, and, if liked, lemon juice and a grate of nutmeg. Shake the pan well. When hot through, serve with a garnish of toast or fried bread. See next chapter for other ways of serving; also Cadhage, for further hints on cooking greens generally. Burnet.—This grows by the way- side, and flowers in July ; its leaves are very beautiful. It is used in the same way ns borage, and is considered equally wholesome. Cabbage. — This is one of the commonest of vegetables, and a most useful one; it is liked as a rule, but has to be avoided by some persons of a flatulent habit. Tho entire tribe is a large one, and embraces sprouts and kale, spinach, &c., as they have a common origin in the wild plant which grows upon the coasts of England, Ireland, and Wales. Cabbages are generally cheap; from Id. to 2d. each is a good price, and they may some- times be got for less. There are cer- tain rules applicable to cabbage cookery, which may be here noted, and which will avoid repetition in our recipes. All need most careful wash- ing, lots of water, renewed several times, and a good lump of salt added to the last—in which they should lie for a time — will draw out insects; they should be put upside down in the water. If any doubt exists, pour boiling water over, after taking them from the cold; this will dislodge in- sects if any are hidden in the ieaves. Always drain well before putting them on to boil, that they may chill thePLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 615 water as little as possible, as it should he made to boil up quickly, that the cabbage may be a good colour. There should be "a good supply of boiling water; if stinted, there will be a strong smell, and the vegetables will be a bad colour. If it is necessary for any dish that some of the strong smell of cabbage be removed, let it soak for an hour in boiling water before cooking. Add to the boiling water two table- spoonfuls of salt to the gallon, and for old cabbages, a half-saltspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda, or powdered borax. A bit of stale bread, tied in a linen bag. will reduce the cabbage smell, which is objectionable. Always leave the lid off, and avoid smokiness. Skim the water before the cabbage goes in, and during the boiling. These remarks apply to all sorts of cabbage. (See also Cabbage, Savoy, Colcaxnon, Hot Slaw, and Sauerkraut, in this chapter: also the chapters on Salads and Pickles. ) Cabbage, Boiled.—For young spring cabbage, cut the stem across twice; prepare and cook them as directed above, allowing twenty minutes or more; their sine and fresh- ness must be considered. Keep them well under the water by pressing them down from time to time, and strain as soon as done; over-boiled cabbages are unpleasant. The colander should be hot, and the cabbage pressed; a wooden press is handy, but a small plate or saucer answers; the lid of a brown stew-jar is useful for the purpose. This part of the business is often neglected; and it takes away the appetite to cut cabbage on one's plate, and find it swimming with water. Have a hot dish ready, and serve at once. Note. — Always take the outside leaves off, if withered, as they must lie thrown away. The above is the plainest and simplest way of boiling; a better dish is obtained by putting the cabbage, after pressing, in a chan saucepan, with a morsel of butter; dredge a little flour in while stirring, as it assists the butter to adhere to the cabbage. A little vinegar and a pinch of sugar are further improvements, if to be served as a separate dish. Cabbage, Large, Boiled.—The difference consists in the preparation of the cabbage; it must be halved, or quartered, if very large; some of the hard stem removed, and the parts tied together with tape ; it is not advisable to throw the stem away, but as it takes longer boiling than the cabbage leaves, it can be put into the water first; or some prefer to cut the stem into strips, and boil for another little dish. Another way often advised is to cut the cabbage through, and put in the stalky parts first, and the thin, leafy tops later on. The thing is to avoid rawness of the stalk, and pulpi- ness of the leaves; all that is wanted is a little management. It is im- possible to lay down a rule as to time for these ; they may take from forty or fifty minutes to an hour. Another excellent method of cook- ing very large cabbage is to shred it, giving the stalk twice the time of the leaves; it should be finished off with butter, as above directed. Cabbage Boiled in Three Waters.—It has been many times remarked that much of the disfavour shown towards the common cabbage is the result of careless cooking ; “ the puddling drop of water, or the hasty and imperfect washing, would turn a strong stomach,” says one authority. The following is recommended as one of the best ways of serving cabbage in a delicate and digestible form. Take some , small white-heart cabbages, wash well, and cut the stalks through once or twice, then put them on in fast- boiling water, lots of it, with salt in the usual proportion (soda is optional; fee Cabbaoe). In ten minutes drain, add a fresh supply of water and salt, boiling as before; give ten minutes more, then renew the water again and finish the cooking. If very small cabbage, supposing it is estimated that they will bo done in twenty minutes.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 616 change the water first after seven minutes’ boiling. The thing is to give throe boilings, and about the same time in each water. There is no objection to this but the little extra trouble, but the result will amply repay it; if the cabbage be well drained and served hot, with melted butter or any other of the usual accompaniments, a dish quite different from an ordinary boiled cabbage is a certain result. Whether boiled in this or any other way, never throw cabbage water down the sink; it should be got rid of out of doors, if there is a bit of ground on which it can be thrown. Cabbage, Fried.—There are various ways of re-heating cold cab- bage ; one of the nicest is frying. Chop the cabbage roughly, season with salt and pepper, and a pinch of herbs and spice ; molt a morsel of dripping or other fat to keep it from burning, then put it in and turn it about until brown and dry. Cold carrots can be added, so can a morsel of grated apple, it gives a pleasant flavour; onions are liked by some, and any of the edible wild plants may be mixed in. Fried cabbage may form a dish of itself, or go to table with meat. In the first case, make it tasty, and serve neatly with some hard-boiled eggs, or strips of toast or fried bread as gar- nish : sauce or gravy adds to its excellence (see Colcannon, page 624). Fried cabbage is sometimes flavoured with ground carraway seeds; it is considered a good addition, by reason of cabbage giving rise to flatulence, for which carraways are a well-known remedy. The same seasoning is as suitable for stewed cabbage as for fried. For the above use an ordinary frying pan. Another way.—Take a pint of boiled chopped cabbage; sprinkle it with a teaspoonful of curry powder, and fry it as above directed. Dish it in a border, and sprinkle fried onions over. Put any mince of meat in the middle: this is tasty and economical. Cabbage, Red, with. Apples. —Required : a cabbage, an onion, two apples, vinegar, seasoning, and thick- ening. Cost, about 6d. This is a rather peculiar dish; to many people it will be a novelty, and will become a favourite: it is, perhaps, one of the most wholesome ways of serving this vegetable. Take a close small cabbage; all the stem and heart part must be removed, then cut it up in shreds, and put it in an earthen stewpan with a good-sized onion, chopped, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a gill of water. Cover and cook softly for a couple of hours; add two large sour apples, chopped; give an hour and a half to two hours more cooking; then season, and thicken with a little flour mixed, with water or stock, and add a little more vinegar or lemon juice. This may be served with roasted or stewed meat, or as a separate course. The seasoning is left to taste; a little spice of some sort is wanted, and a morsel of sugar is generally liked; though those who do not care for sweetened apple sauce will like this unsweetened; salt and pepper are the only other ingredients necessary. Red cabbage is generally pickled, but many good dishes may be made from it. If stock bo used instead of water, the above is nicer. A favourite dish in some parts is made from red cabbage, stewed in thickened stock, and fried sausages. (See also Pickles and Salads.) Cabbage, Savoy.—This is dis- tinguished from the close-hearted cab- bage by its full heads and wrinkled leaves. There are several varieties of this—the large green, the German (a distinct and superior sort), the yellow, the dwarf, and the globe, are all familiar ones. This cabbage is eaten by some who do not like the white cabbage ; again, others prefer the last- named. To keep this a nice colour, give it lots of room and lots of water ; take it up as soon as done and press well; cut it into squares in the dishPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY*. G17 ready for serving, and to improve the appearance rub a bit of butter over the top. Some dislike this if it is to be eaten with a roast. Prepare the water as directed for C Aim age on page lilt, and wash and prepare the cabbage in the same manner. To serve as a separate dish, treat the cabbage as spinach, or any other green vegetable. Cabbage, Stewed, Arme- nian.—Required : a cabbage, a mince of cold meat and bacon as below, dripping, stock, seasoning, and thick- ening. Cost, exclusive of meat, about 4d. Scald a neatly trimmed cabbage 5 the outside leaves must be removed, so as to leave it close and compact. Make a mince of any sort of cold meat and bacon ; it should be highly seasoned, and mixed to a paste with about the same bulk of parboiled rice; broken rice does very well. Introduce this in amongst the inner leaves, and tie up the cabbage with tape. Brown it well in a morsel of hot dripping, then add some weak stock, and stew for an hour and a half or two hours. Untie it, and thicken and flavour the gravy to taste, pour it over or round the cabbage, and serve hot. A large lettuce is excellent thus treated. A similar dish is made by using sausage meat to stuff the cabbage, with parboiled rice, or some cooked peas or lentils, mashed and moistened with gravy or stock. 'This sort of dish is a change from meat and vegetables as ordinarily served. Cabbage, Stuffed.—Required: cabbage, forcemeat, stock, thickening, and seasoning. Cost, about 6d. or 8d. This is a tasty dish. Prepare a plain herb forcemeat [nee Forcemeats), and use it in the manner described above; or take the heart out and put the stuffing in its place; in this case, the heart is boiled and served in another dish. Stew in some plain meat or vegetable stock until the cabbage is done; then serve it on a I hot dish and thicken the gravy; add I seasoning, and pour over the cabbage. Use a forcemeat without suet. Cabbage Turnip, or Cole Rape.—This is a vegetable favoured in Germany (Kohlrabi) ; the flavour is something like cauliflower. To cook them, they must be peeled like turnips, and quartered or halved according to size, and boiled in water or stock like turnips; when a skewer goes easily through they are done. Meanwhile, the tenderest of the green tops are cooked just like spinach. The kohlrabi are sliced and heated in white sauce, seasoned nicely—a grate of nutmeg is generally approved—and served in the centre of the dish with the green round them. Ordinary turnips, vegetable mar- rows, or any other of the insipid class of vegetables, might be thus served, any green-meat in season forming the wreath; it improves the appearance and the flavour. Cabbage, with Cheese and Eggs.—Required : cabbages, sauce, eggs, cheese, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 10d., without the adjuncts named. This is a nice maigre dish. A couple of young cabbages should be boiled and pressed, then chopped roughly, and put in a saucepan with a gill of plain Melted Butter, or White Sauce, and stirred for a minute or two. Four eggs boiled hard, and cut in six or eight pieces are then to > be added, with an ounce or more of grated cheese, a pinch of cayenne, and nutmeg and black pepper to taste. As soon as the cheese is melted, the whole should be served as hot as possible. With this a dish of macaroni or rice is good eating. Other combinations may be tried; for example, some melted butter and eggs can be put in, and any preparation of rice or macaroni, with cheese, laid round it; or some fried or toasted bread, with grated cheese on a plato, are sometimes handed round, with the cabbage. Cabbage, with. Pickles.—Re- quired : cabbage, vinegar, pickles,618 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. butter, flour, and seasoning. Cost, about 5d. Take the heart from a medium-sized cabbage ; boil it in two waters until it is three parts done; then shred it, and lay in a stewpan; chop up a pickled onion or two, also a gherkin, and a few capers ; add them, with a gill of vinegar, some from the pickles, the rest plain ; cook for twenty minutes or so, then thicken with browned flour, give a few minutes’ more boiling, add an ounce of butter, and salt and black pepper to taste, and dish at once. Many persons always add vinegar to cabbage; this will commend itself to such, as the cooking in the vinegar reduces the sharpness, and gives a piquant, but not unpleasantly acid, flavour; but it may be improved for some, by using half vinegar and half stock. Chutney may be added to increase the zest, and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup or conserve is a decided improvement. Cabbage, with Tomato Pur6e.—Boil the cabbage as above ; put it in a stewpan with enough Tomato Pur£e to cover it; see the recipe later on. Stir and simmer until the cabbage is tender, then serve hot; it goes with almost any meat; or, with the addition of eggs, forms a good maigre diBh. Capers.—These are obtained from a plant grown in South Europe; our supplies are mostly from France and Italy; they vary in kind and price, and the French Nonpareils are con- sidered the best, and are the most expensive. Capers are mainly associ- ated with boiled mutton in the form of sauce; but they are extremely nice with many vegetable concoctions, as well us savoury preparations of rice or other grain. Capers must be kept well covered with their vinegar, and the bottle corked tightly. For the various salads and savoury dishes into which capers enter, reference must be made to those chapters (see also Gar- nishes). Cost, from 4d. per small bottle; the larger bottles are relatively much cheaper. Cardoon. — This is a handsome plant that has long been employed in French cookery; it is cultivated in England, but is very costly ; the stalks of the inner leaves are the parts eaten, the prickles being removed by means of flannel. Cost, very uncertain. Cardoons are to be got in the winter. It has been often said that cardoons are valued more on account of their high price than their flavour ; and that many cheaper vegetables are better. Cardoons may be got in tins, but they are expensive. Cardoons, Boiled.—Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces from four to six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them in boiling water for a quarter of an hour. Scrape off the skin, and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured white stock, and boil till tender. Drain them, and serve on toast, with plenty of good Melted Butter, or any rich white sauce. Five or six heads suffice for a dish. Cardoons, Fried.—Proceed as above, and when the cardoons are tender, melt a little butter in a pan, drain the cardoons, dredge a little flour over, and fry them till they are nicely browned. Send sauce as above to table. Cardoons, Stewed. — Prepare the cardoons as above. Then put them into a stewpan, and cover with a little good gravy, and stew very gently till tender. When sufficiently cooked, thicken the gravy with roux, season with cayenne and salt, and add a glass of sherry. Put the cardoons on a dish, and pour the gravy over them. The cost of all these dishes is very variable. Carrot.—This vegetable is very wholesome, and much liked, generally speaking; but not nearly enough is made of it as a dressed vegetable ofG19 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERV. the plain kind. It is usod freely enough at the tables of the well-to-do, in the form of high-class purees, &c.; but we are thinking for the moment of the number of people who havo eaten carrots, in hardly any other way than plainly boiled, with beef or mutton. Yet the nice dishes of carrots for separate service, at little cost, are very numerous, and deserve attention. The best part of the carrot is the red outside; therefore as little should be removed as possible, and scraping is preferable to peeling; and whenever peeling must be resorted to, great care should be taken to avoid waste. The inner parts answer for flavouring soups, stocks, &c. Of course, for very cheap dishes, and when the vegetable is scarce, or the inner parts are not likely to be of use in other ways, then the carrots in their entirety may be used for any dish. But as the exterior is not only nicer in taste, but more digestible, and cooks in less time, there are good reasons for the separation when practicable. Cold carrots are liked by many persons; they make an excellent salad; re- heated, carrots are very nice; therefore cold carrots need never be thrown away. Old carrots are always im- proved by the addition of a little sugar to the boiling water, or to the stock used in such dishes as purees, stewed carrots, and the like. Fat, too, is a necessary ingredient; when the vege- tables are boiled w.ith a piece of fat meat, it will be found that they become soft in less time than when cooked plainly; therefore, whenever boiled apart from meat, a morsel of fat should be put into the water; if a stock of a slightly greasy nature be employed, that answers the same purpose. In dishes of the strictly vegetarian class, oil or butter comes to the rescue. We specially enforce these frequently un- considered points, because we do not know of any vegetable that is more improved by careful cooking than the carrot. Cost, variable, but almost always cheap; from 2d. to 3d. per bunch. Young carrots, early in the season, may be put down at about 4d. to Od. per bunch. We can particularly recommend steamed carrots. (See Vegetables, Steamed.) When thus cooked, or when plainly boiled, they are im- proved by rubbing over with a bit of butter or dripping. Carrots, Boiled.—For old car- rots, cut a little slice from the root end, wash them well, and cleanse them by means of a vegetable brush. When the dirt is all brushed off, it is often found that the carrots need not be peeled; whereas, when only half cleaned, peeling is thought to be necessary in nine cases out of ten. Any specks or unsound parts can be removed with the point of a knife. Have some water boiling, salted, as for onions (unless they are being boiled with salt meat); add sugar and fat (see remarks above), and boil until done. The time varies considerably; from an hour and a half to almost double the time, if very large, may be set down as the average. It is best to cut the root end twice across, for the water to penetrate more easily; or some prefer to cut the carrots through the middle, and leave the thin end whole, and split the root end into pieces of equal thickness. The cooking in this way is more uniform, but there is a slight loss of flavour, which is not of so much importance if the liquor is utilised for soup or broth. The thin end, that looks like a bit of string, should be cut off. Sauce or no sauce ? If to serve with boiled meat, Melted Butter or Plain White Sauce is often poured over, and is an improve- ment, supposing the pot liquor only is to be served with the meat. But if a piquant sauce or gravy bo made to pour over tho meat, no other need be prepared for the carrots. Carrots, Young, Boiled.— Wash and scrape the carrots, then boil them in water prepared as above directed, from twenty-five minutes to three-quarters of an hour or more, according to size, and solve with sauco620 UNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK, or plain Melted Butter. Or, instead of scraping, wash the carrots only, and when done rub off the skins with a hot, dry cloth; this must bo done very quickly, as the sooner they are dished the better. Another way.—This is very superior. Prepare the carrots for boiling, and lay them flat in a stewpan, with one ounce of butter to two pounds. Put in a teaspoonful or rather less of salt, and a pinch of sugar, then just cover with boiling water. When the boiling is almost complete, remove the lid, and let most of the moisture evaporate. Put the carrots in a dish, add as much milk as there is liquor in the pan, and thicken with corn-flour to the con- sistence of melted butter. After a minute or two, during which stir briskly, pour it over the carrots. This is a really first-class dish, although cheap; the flavour, owing to the re- tention of the juices, is excellent, while it is actually cheaper than a dish of carrots boiled in the ordinary way, because the liquor helps to make the sauce. Carrots, Fried.—Take cold car- rots, and cut them equally, both in length and thickness; pepper and sugar them (the two ingredients should bo about equal), then add a suspicion of nutmeg; it is better to dredge the seasoning over before the carrots are cold; sprinkle them lightly with flour, and either cook them in a frying pan with hot fat, by the “ dry pro- cess,” turning them with a spoon until equally browned; or (which is the better method) put them in a frying- basket, and plunge them into plenty of hot fat. Drain, and serve with a roast or stew of meat, or, as a separate dish, with any nice sauce. Another way. — Dip the carrots into molted dripping, then season and leave to cool; roll them in crushed vermi- celli, and fry brown and crisp. (Sec also next chapter.) Carrot Sauce.—See Hot Sauces. Carrot Soup.—See Soups. Carrots, Stewed, German.—1 Cut the carrots into strips, the size, say, of the finger. Put them in a stewpan, with a morsel of butter and some weak meat broth; cook softly, and thicken with a little flour, and add some chopped chives, or young onions, with a morsel of chopped parsley, a short time before dishing. Some cooked green peas improve this stew. Carrots, Stewed, Savoury Dish of.—Required : a quart of thinly- sliced carrots, a pint of stock—meat or vegetable, according to the nature of the dish—two ounces of butter, an ounce of potato flour, half an ounce of barley flour, a tablespoonful of chopped leeks, half as much parsley, salt, pepper, and spice as below. Cost, about 9d. Melt the butter, add the leeks and parsley, stir for a minute, then put in the carrots, which should be sliced with a cucumber slicer; fry for a few minutes, then add the stock, smoothly blended with the thickening, a (love, a bay leaf, and a couple of allspice berries. Cover, after the gravy has been stirred to the boil, and cook until the carrots are done, shaking the pan sometimes, then serve in a pilo, with the gravy strained over them, and garnish with croutons. The time depends entirely upon the age of the carrots. If young, half an hour or less will do; if old, they will take from forty to fifty minutes. Remember, a pinch of sugar, and frequent stirring. Carrots, Tinned.—Young car- rots are now to be had in tins, ready cooked ; they only need re-heating to be ready for use. (See Asparagus.) Being expensive, they will bo useful for tho most part for garnishing purposes; or for first-class dishes, when rich sauces are served with them. They are nice for salads, being of a very good colour. When used for garnishes, the liquor should be added to soup, or used in some other way, as it will be found to contain a goodPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G21 deal of flavour; it will serve to give a carrot flavour to a vegetable curry, or a stew of mixed vegetables. These little points should bo borne in mind in dealing with tinned vegetables of all sorts; for it is seldom that no use at all can be found for the liquor. Cost, about Is. per tin. Carrots, with Macaroni and Spinach.—Required : spinach, car- rots, macaroni, eggs, sauce, and seasoning, as below. Cost, about Is. 4d. to Is. (id. This is a very economical and tasty- looking dish. For an ordinary-sized dish of spinach, allow about a dozen small carrots, and half a pound of macaroni. Boil the carrots (set; Car- rots, Young, Boiled, last method), and set them upright round the spinach, boiled, and put pyramid form in the middle of the dish. Put the macaroni round the carrots, in little heaps, with here and there a quarter of a hard-boiled egg; about eight quarters should be used in this way, and the same number put about the pile of spinach. The sauce from the carrots should be poured half over the macaroni, and half over the eggs and spinach. .Send Melted Butter to table, and serve as a separate course at luncheon or dinner. Any green vege- table may replace the spinach, and the macaroni may be plainly boiled, or cooked in a savoury manner, but it should be white, the better to contrast with the rest of the ingredients. [See Macaroni.) Cauliflower. — This favourite vegetable should be cut early, while the dew is still upon it. Choose those that are close and white, and of medium size. Whiteness is a sign of quality and freshness. Great care should be taken that there are no caterpillars about the stalk, and, to ensure this, lay the vegetable with its head downwards in cold water and salt for an hour or two, changing the water; if insects are in the leaves they will be drawn out and float. 'The outer leaves may be cooked like cabbage. Cost, from 2d. to 6d. each on an average. Cauliflower, Boiled.—Examine the vegetable, after treating as abovo described, to make sure there are no slugs left in ; drain, and put it on to boil in plenty of fast-boiling water, with a couple of teaspoonfuls of s lit to the half gallon. This should bo well skimmed, or the scum will adhere to the cauliflower, which should bo laid in, flower down, the stem cut evenly, the outer leaves taken off, and tho inner leaves trimmed round the edge, so that the flower stands above tho green. Boil, uncovered, very gently, until tho flower is quite soft, but un- broken, from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size. If a number of very small ones are cooked, cut the stems very flat, and place them in the dish to resemble one large cauliflower. Firm, close ones, of medium size, are best; when large and discoloured, and open, they should be used up in other ways. In draining, remember to turn the cauliflower upside down in the colan- der, and take it up very carefully with a slice. Serve, flower up, with White Sauce over. Parsley Sauce is some- times liked. Cauliflower, Boiled (French method).—Cut away all the stalk and green leaves, and divide the flower into quarters .or sprigs; soak for a short time in water, with salt and a little vinegar in, then boil in the usual way, and arrange neatly in a dish. Pour Melted Butter over, and serve. We may point out that cauliflower leaves can be cooked for a separate dish, just like white cabbage. In some families the vegetable is always put on tho plates without a morsel of the leaf or stalk, even when only the primest of the leaves are left on ; when this is the case, it is far more economical to remove tho loaves at first, and cook tho flower separately, as described above; or to boil it in milk (after par- boiling in water), then to add flour and butter to the milk for the sauce. When green vegetables aro difficult toUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 622 procure, the most should he made of cauliflower leaves, or any other which are eatable, though habitually wasted. Cauliflower au Gratin.—Re- quired : a cauliflower, clarified fat, cheese, seasoning, and bread-crumbs. Cost, about 6d. This, as generally prepared, is more or less expensive. The recipe below is very tasty and cheap. After pre- paring- the cauliflower in the manner detailed in the next chapter, for dishes of the samo title, divide the flower into sprigs, and dry them in a cloth; dip each sprig into a little clarified fat, melted (it need not be very hot), and build up the vegetable into its original form in a baking dish. Pour a little more fat over, and cover thickly with any sort of cheese, grated ; the milder the cheese, the more it must he seasoned; a hint of nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste are sufficient; just a pinch of celery salt is an improve- ment. Cover with a layer of bread- crumbs, a quarter of an inch thick; these must he previously browned in the oven. Put a little more fat over the crumbs, and bake to a good rich brown, then serve at once. Another dish, equally good, is mado by using bacon fat instead of dripping, and, if liked, coat with a thin layer of crumbs, then the cheese can be added to some plain white sauce, which may be served apart, not poured over. When the dish comes from the oven, just a sprinkling of cheese may be advantageously shaken over it, and lightly browned. Cauliflower, Various Dishes of.—See next chapter, also Sours, Salads, and Pickles. Cauliflower is also introduced into many dishes of mixed vegetables in the present chapter. When served as a separate course, a boiled cauliflower is very nice with Eoo, Tomato, Rice, and many other sauces. Celeriac.—This resembles celery in flavour; it may be cooked in any of the wavs given for celery. The root is more rounded than ordinary celery, for which reason it is called turnip-rooted celery. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. For garnishing purposes, this is use- ful, when strips or any fancy shapes are required, as a good number can be cut from one root. Celeriac is not universally known and cultivated in England, and in many towns of con- siderable size it is not purchasable. Celery.—This is much eaten raw, and is a favourite accompaniment of bread and cheese. There are many ways in which it can bo cooked, and it is then far more easily digested; indeed, in the cooked state it is highly recommended, particularly to sufferers from rheumatism and allied disorders. Celery is better when it has been touched by the frost. The seed answers for flavouring purposes when the vegetable is not to bo had. Cost, about 2d. to 4d. per head. In our recipes “ a head of celery ” means the entire head, or stick, as it is sometimes called. By “a few sticks or stalks” we mean the separate stalks of a head. The outer stalks, however dark and tough, will answer for flavouring soups and stews of the brown class. Celery may be preserved for some time, if gathered on a dry day, before it has been touched by frost. The leaves and roots are to be cut off, it is then to be laid in a cool, airy place until partially dried, then taken to a cool cellar, where it will be quite secure from frost, and packed up with sand in alternate layers, sand forming the bottom and top layers, thicker than those put between the celery. For other recipes, see Index. Celery, Blanched. — For all dishes of celery that are wanted very white, put the inner portion only into cold water to cover, bring it to the boil, give it a rinse in clean cold water, and use as required. By this method, some of the flavour is sacrificed to appearance. Celery, Boiled.—When celery is put to boil into a large quantity ofPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G23 water, then drained in the same way as potatoes, it becomes insipid, and loses much of its nutriment, therefore we do not adviso it. The beads should be made even by cutting off some of the root, and they should he put close together in a saucepan that will tako them easily, both with regard to cir- cumference and depth. If more con- venient, some may he cut from the tops. Boiling water should then be poured round to about half the depth, with a little butter and salt. Tie with a piece of tape. The cooking should he gentle. The roots must be tender, and the tops soft, but unbroken. For a very plain dish, some thickening may be added to some of the liquor to make sauce; the rest will serve as the base of a vegetable soup. Celery Puree, Plain. — See Celery Sauce ; follow the directions, bnt use more celery ; the puree should just drop from the spoon. Celery Roots are of value for flavouring soups, &c. They must bo washed and cut up. Celery, Stewed. — Slice the celery up; if the root is used, that part must have more time than the rest. Cover with boiling rvater or plain white stock, add salt, and a few peppercorns, and, if liked, parsley or other herb, hut the natural flavour is often the most relished. When nearly done, and the water almost absorbed, add a little milk, and about an ounce each of flour and butter to each half pint of liquid in the pan, which is right for a good head of celery, the white part only. Serve on toast with the sauce poured over. The celery can be cut into lengths of two or three inches if liked, then tied in little bundles, and served like sea kale, on toast, with the sauce poured over. Before thickening the sauce, tako the celery up with a slice, and keep it hot and covered while the sauce boils up. Celery, Stewed, with Cheese. —Required: celery, milk, stock, seasoning, butter, cheese, and thicken- ing, as below. Cost, about Is. This is an excellent supper dish. Put the hearts of two heads of celery in a stewpan, -with an ounce of butter; cover for ten minutes, shaking often; add a little salt and cayenne, a grata of nutmeg, and half a pint of the water from boiled rice or macaroni, or any plain stock. Cook until almost tender; then add half a pint of milk, mixed with an ounce of corn-flour or rice- flour, another ounce of butter and seasoning to taste; stir to the boil, drop in two ounces of well-flavoured grated cheese, shake the pan until dissolved, then serve on a very hot dish. Celery salt is the best to use for the seasoning of this. A very small shalot improves it for some tastes. Chervil.—The leaves of chervil are tender, and of delicious flavour, which has been compared to a com- bination of fennel and parsley, but more aromatic than either. It is much used in salads, and for decora- tive purposes for all sorts of cold dishes, its small, pale leaf being very- pretty. It is employed in clear soups, and however used is very generally liked. Cost, a few pence per bunch or basket, on an average. It may be dried j ust the same as parsley during the months of May, Juno, and July. It should be remembered that the root is poisonous. Chestnuts.—Those are so rich in starch, and contain so little oil, that they might almost be included among bread-stuffs. Large quantities are imported from Spain and Italy, where, as in Southern Europo generally, chestnuts are considered a very im- portant article of food. Cooked in various ways, they take tho placo of vegetables, and it is with tho chestnut in this connection that we are now dealing. It is a matter of regret that anything which is so digestible when cooked, as tho chestnut is, should, to the majority, bo known only ns a sort of dessert after a full meal; for manyUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 624 a child would enjoy a meal of chest- nuts in England, as well as in those countries where the peasantry count themselves fortunate if they are able to obtain such fare. In addition to the recipes below, see next chapter for richer dishes suitable for serving with meat. (See also Sours, and Sauces, both savoury and sweet, and recipes under Cereals and Puddings.) Cost, about 2d. per pound. Chestnuts, Boiled.--Make a slight incision in the outer skins, and throw them into plenty of boiling water with salt, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to the quart; as soon as they arc soft, after steady cooking, they should be drained and wiped, and served in a hot napkin laid in the dish. Time, about an hour. Another way.—Peel by removing the outer and inner skins, and mash the chestnuts, and treat them like pota- toes when plainly mashed; or make them tasty by the aid of herbs and spices, with a little oil, bacon fat, butter, or dripping to give the desired smoothness. Chestnuts, Roasted.—These are always bettor if parboiled, the ends being first cut; they should then be put in the oven, or before the fire, or over the fire on a closo grid, and cooked until done. A dish of these, with salt and a bit of butter, would be as welcome to many as potatoes roasted in their skins; and only cus- tom is to blame for the one being considered worthy to constitute a meal, while the other is regarded as a dessert, although quite as satisfying. Chestnuts, Stewed.—Take as many chestnuts as may be needed, and take the outer rind away, then put them in hot water, and bring to boil- ing point; as soon as the second skin can bo removed, take them up, put into cold water, then peel and wipe them dry. Return them to a clean pan, and cover them with any weak stock, either moat or vegetable, or even tho water from boiled haricots, rice, or macaroni; add an onion if the stock has not been already flavoured, and a little salt, with a bay leaf or any other herb, and cook gently until tender ; but they should not be broken up. The gravy may be left as it is, or thickened with a tablespoonful of corn- flour to each quart; or some fine sago can be sprinkled in in time for it to be cooked. Time, about an hour and a half. For a more savoury dish, at very trilling cost, the nuts, after the second skin has been taken off, can be floured and fried in a morsel of dripping; any stock, vegetarian or otherwise, is then to be added, and when soft the liquor should bo thickened with browned flour, and made tasty by •means of a few drops of store sauce or vinegar, with salt and pepper to taste. Cllickweed. — “ The commonest of all tho weeds, but not without its virtues,” says a writer. There are several varieties ; tho right one to use is the low-branched weed, so common in garden beds, with small, white flowers, short, broad leaves, and round, green stalks, which have a weak, divided look, and commonly lean on tho ground. This plant is said to be very valuable for its juices, which cool and purify the blood. When boiled, a very good substitute for spinach may be obtained from it. Like all its tribe, it wants most careful cleansing; if neglected in this respect, the result will be particularly unpleasant; this is true of all the plants that grow near the ground. Chicory (or Succory).—The leaves of this plant when blanched are used in salads; it is wild, and of the nature of endive. The root is roasted, and added to coffee, or serves in some parts as a substitute for it (sec remarks under Coffee in a later chapter). Of late, a good deal of impetus has been given to the cultivation of chicory. Colcannon.—One of the simplest of those dishes, which are favourites at vegetarian tables, is a mixture ofPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 625 mashed potatoes and boiled cabbage, heated together with a lump of butter and a little salt and pepper. Another Oolcannon is composed of boiled car- rots, instead of potatoes; they are chopped or mashed, and mixed with the cabbage; while yet another is made from the three vegetables ; they may be mixed up, or heated in layers in a saucepan, with seasoning, and enough oil or butter to moisten them. Colcannon, with Pulse.—A dish made in either of the above ways may be mixed with a small proportion of cooked peas, beans, or lentils, which should be seasoned with some sort of spice, a little ground cinnamon, and cloves, for example, or a morsel of curry paste or powder. With refer- ence to these combinations of fresh vegetables and pulse, a writer long resident in India, says, “ Pulse alone is not good in large proportion ; try it with other vegetables, or with rice; in England you have plenty of scope for variety; and by the addition of con- diments yon may make delicious dishes. Remember that oil or butter will be wanted, and for your green vegetable don’t depend upon cabbage alone; try some of the others that are so little eaten, but just as good, and you may benefit both in mind and body, to say nothing of your pocket.” Corn, Canned, is delicious for serving as a vegetable; it is particu- larly useful in winter, when fresh vegetables are, perhaps, both dear and faulty. It should be turned from the tin into a saucepan, with a little salt and pepper, and a slice of butter, and made thoroughly hot. Or some milk may be used instead of butter, and thickened with flour. Another way is to heat the com in a small quantity of sauce; white sauce is usually chosen, though there is no reason why brown should not be used. Biscuit-crumbs can be used for thickening. An American dish is prepared thus Put a quart can of com, with its liquor, in a saucepan, and stew it softly, then thicken with corn-flour, mixed with milk, and serve in a deep dish. Some persons liko some other flavour to give a slight piquancy to the dish, but it is more often served in the natural state. The exact time for stewing cannot be stated; some of the corn wants nothing- hut warming up ; while a good deal is improved by a little further cooking.' The average cost is from 7d. to lOd. per tin of a quart (nominal); or, from od. to 6d. per small tin, about a pint (imperial), of the best varieties. Green corn, sweet corn, and American corn are the various names given to this useful article. Corn, Canned, with Barley. —A nice dish, which goes well with boiled or baked meat, is made by add- ing some previously boiled pearl barley (about a fourth) to the corn; some of the barley liquor can go in, and a thickening of barley flour with milk is a very suitable one. Wheat or oatmeal may be used in the same way. Corn, Canned, with Fried Vegetables.—Required: a can of com, some mixed vegetables, and gravy, as below. Cost, about Is. to is. 2d. Turn the com out, without its liquor, into a saucepan. Add to a quart tin about half a pint of mixed vegetables, that have been cut up, and fried a good brown ; onions, turnips, carrots, and haricots, boiled previously, are very useful for the purpose. Then pour over a gravy, made by pouring half a pint of the corn liquor and water into the frying-pan, with season- ing and thickening; boil up and colour a little. Cover closely, and stew until all the vegetables are soft. This is very tasty, and may bo eaten as a separato course, or with meat. The appearanco of the corn is here sacrificed to the flavour. Cucumbers. — This delicious ediblo is a groat favourite. Though it may be served in various ways, it is never so good as when eaten raw.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G26 Many persons object to it on account of its being so indigestible, and cer- tainly this is the case. If the stalk end bo kept standing in cold water, and the water be changed every day, cucumbei'S will keep hard for a W6ek or two. Cucumbers may be dressed in many ways; the rind is generally removed, but in the. opinion of some, if it were eaten, the fruit would be more digestible. It is customary to sprinkle it with salt after slicing it for table, then to drain off the moisture which exudes. This is declared by many to he an error; thoy contend (and we think, rightly) that one might as well draw off and throw away the juices of ripe fruit of any kind. We think that this mode toughens the cucumber. It may bo oaten with salt and pepper only, but vinegar is gener- ally added, and a little oil improves it. Various ways are given under Salads. We may add that tomatoes, eaten with cucumbers, are excellent; and tiro dish is more wholesome than cucumbers eaten alone; the acid of the tomato has the power of softening the cucum- ber, and reducing it to a pulpy con- dition, as anyone may prove by slicing the two articles, and covering them' for a few hours. Unions, especi- ally Spanish, arc also good with cucumbers. A refreshing dish, popu- lar in Chicago, is one of thinly-slicod cucumber, seasoned only with pounded sugar and lemon juice. In cutting a cucumber, it should be remembered that the stalk end is to bo left intact; that part being of no value ; those who cut that end make a mistake, as the flavour suffers by reason of a certain bitter principle, which is thus carried all through the cucumber. This principle is more pronounced in the common varieties ; but it is a good rule always to pool from the thick end downwards. Many ways of cooking cucumbers are given in the next chapter; see also Garnishes, Salads, Sauces, Sours, Pickles, &c. Cost, from 2d. to 6d. when plentiful; but often much more. Cucumbers, Boiled. — (See recipes under Vegetable Makhow.) Some prefer steaming; others liko boiling ; the latter requires the greater care to prevent breaking. Small cucumbers may be left whole, the seeds scooped out from one end ; larger ones can be halved or quartered. Either serve with white sauce or pour it over. Another way is to three-parts cook in the first instance, and finish the cooking in the sauce, a little thinner than usual; the cucumbers may be thickly sliced for this. A de- cided improvement is effected at little cost by flavouring the boiling water with herbs or vinegar, or an onion or two can be put in, or the sauce may receive the addition of a little chopped onion. (Sec Sauces.) Cucumbers, Stuffed, aud Stewed. — Required: cucumbers, forcemeat, stock, toast, and thicken- ing. Cost, about 8d. each, inclusive, when cheap. Cut them through lengthwise, re- move the seeds, and fill with any plain sort of stuffing free from suet; tie the two halves together, and cook in plain vegetable stock, or the liquor from boiled meat just to cover. When done, add a small quantity of flour and butter for sauce ; pour over, and serve on toast. Time, about an hour. A little tomato pulp in the gravy will make the dish more digestible, as well as more appetising. Curried Vegetables. — (See Index ) Dandelion. -The first mention of a dish of cooked dandelion will most likely create aversion ; but it can bo honestly recommended. It is inexpen- sive and easily obtained; for fresh growths after showery weather may bo had throughout summer and winter. Gather an equal quantity of fresh dandelion and sorrel leaves. Put the dandelion by itself into a stewpan, cover it with a small quantity of boiling water, and stew until nearly627 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. tender; add the sorrel, and simmer until the water has evaporated, and the whole is soft. Add a little butter, and pepper and salt, and serve like spinach. The dish may be garnished in a variety of ways, either with hard- boiled eggs, sippets of fried bread, or slices of boiled carrot cut into shapes. It is usually served with white meats, as veal, sweetbreads, &c.; but it is excellent as a garnish for poached eggs. Some persons cook this vege- table without sorrel, but to our taste it is too bitter, and wants toning down. It will, in all probability, be more often found on the tables of the rich than of the poor, not from its cost, but from its peculiar taste and flavour. Other ways of preparing this homely plant for table will suggest themselves on reference to Spinach. Dandelion leaves, young and blanched, are not unlike endive; and are an excellent addition to salads. Cost, uncertain. Dandelion Roots.—These are said to be at their best from July to October; they are considered very good eating if carefully prepared. They want washing and scraping, and should be very gently boiled, like greens generally, until tender. They may then be finished off in various ways. (See recipes under Cabbage, Spinach, &c.) Endive.—This has long been cul- tivated, and is used as a vegetable and for salads. For the latter, the curled variety is preferred; but the dwarf white endive is more delicate when boiled for table. The cost is variable ; from 2d. to 4d. per head is the average. Endive may be obtained very early in the year. Endive, Boiled.—For a good- sized dish, take half a dozen heads; wash them well; the outer leaves should be stripped off, and the stalks cut to separate the rest of the leaves, and facilitate the washing. Lots of grit will be fonnd amongst the leaves, and scrupulous care is required. Put the endive into a large saucepan, half full of boiling water, slightly salted, and boil for twenty minutes, or rather more. Then drain in a colander, press and chop it, and put it in a clean saucepan with a teaspoonful of white sugar, a little salt and pepper, half an ounce each of flour and butter, and a gill of plain white stock. Stew for a few minutes, then serve. The sugar’ can be omitted if preferred. Stir all the time to prevent burning. If the bitterness is objected to, it may bo reduced by boiling the endive in two waters. Or, after boiling as above, it can be put in cold water for a few minutes, then squeezed, and finished off as directed, or in any of the ways given under Spinach. Fennel.—This plant is often found wild, but it is cultivated also, and is in that form very superior ; it may be used ns a garnish, its leaves being very graceful; it is also used for sauce in the same way as parsley. Cost, very variable. Garlic.—This bulb is related to the onion, but is very much stronger; each bulb is divided into cloves. When carefully used, garlic is valu- able, and will give a “twang” to many dishes, that cannot otherwise be imparted. It is natural that a wide- spread prejudice exists against garlic, seeing that it is so often used in the same way as onions; whereas, a rub over the bottom of tbe salad bow], ol- dish, with a morsel of it is generally enough ; or a crust of bread may bo rubbed rvith it, and tossed for a second in any liquid, as sauce or gravy. Garlic can be bought both in the fresh and dried condition. It enters into store sauces, chutnoys, &c. Pooplo who have had experience of foreign cookery will best appreciate garlic. Garlic Paste. — This is also called “ Ayoli.” Chop up two or three cloves of garlic, with from six to nino sweet almonds, and add the yolk of an egg; soak some bread crusts in water, squeeze them dry, then add them to the above, with onough olive oil toUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 628 make a smooth paste. This is eaten in France, and there are many ways of adapting it to English palates. {Sec Savouries.) Garlic Puree.—Skin the cloves of garlic, and cook them in a saucepan of boiling water, changing it every livo minutes, until the garlic is soft; a goo 1 pinch of salt should be put in the last water. Pound it, and add gravy or brown sauce to make a thick purde. If for roast mutton, use the plain gravy of tho joint. For braised meats use the gravy from the pan, or some good, strong stock. After mixing, stow the garlic and gravy togethor for a short time, and serve very hot. This is very mild, hut can ho made still milder by using a very little garlic and a proportion of onion. This is also useful in concocting savoury dishes. Good King Henry.- This is a plant that is plentiful about farm yards as a rule; it is host in June and July. The leaves are cooked like spinach ; and the stalks may be boiled and served like asparagus. When cold, they can be used in salads. English mercury is another name for this wholesomo plant. Greens.—{Sec Cadhaoe.) Herbs, Bunch or Bouquet of. — Two sprigs of parsley, one sprig each of thyme and marjoram, an inch strip of lemon peel, a small green onion, or leek, or shalot, a clove, and a bay loaf, should be used for a very savoury dish. The neatest way to form the bunch is to lay tho lemon peel and clove in tho centre of the herbs ; fold tho latter over to make a compact little bundle, and tie it with cotton; any loose sprigs which might become detached should bo snipped off with scissors. This is only necessary when tho herbs are put in any prepa- ration for a few minutes; when stewed in the sauce or gravy which will have to be strained or tammied afterwards, a few loose pieces are no object; but many a useless straining may be avoided—when a slight flavour of herbs only is required—by taking the trouble to tie the bunch. For everyday uses, a bunch of herbs is generally understood to mean a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, and a morsel of lemon thyme or common thyme. When tho leaves of herbs have been used for forcemeats, the stalks can be tied up, and used for flavouring various liquids. Herbs, Dried and Powdered. — Gather the herbs on a dry day, in the cool of the evening, and just before they flower; cleanse them quickly, remove decayed leaves, and dry them by spreading out on sheets of paper, or lay them on a sieve; they may bo dried near a fire, say the plate-rack of the range, or in a cool oven, or in the sun ; but the quicker the process the better the flavour. Tick carefully from tho stalks, and rub through a fine sieve, then store in bottles. For the blending of herbs, alone, or with spices, sec the chapter on Seasonings. It is common to sco bunches of dried herbs hanging by the kitchen fire; this is a dirty plan; tho herbs become covered with dust, besides losing flavour; apart from this, it is better to use a spare hour to dry and powder them (tying up the stalks for use in soups, &c.), and have them ready for use. Those who have no gardens will find it as cheap to buy the herbs in bottles as to prepare them at home. A good-sized bottle can be had for a few pence. The paper packets are no use at Jill, being often entirely flavour- less. Horse-radish. —This is common in our gardens ; it is a very pungent plant, and a favourite adjunct, either raw and scraped, or made into sauce, with roast beef. It is said to be very wholesomo. Cost, from Id. to Id. per root. This forms an ingredient of many store sauces, and is a most useful article for flavouring purposes. When required for garnish for cold meat, wash and scrub very thoroughly; letPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G29 St lie for a time in cold water, then scrape very finely with a knife; or, by some, a piece of glass is preferred. When served with hot meat, pile it lightly in a glass dish. [See Sauces, Seasonings, Salads, &c.) Horse-radish Powder.—This is made by slicing and drying the cleansed root very gradually; if ex- posed to a fierce heat the flavour will he lost; when quite dry, reduce it to powder; it should be pounded in a mortar and sieved; the coarse parts can be kept hack and used separately. Keep the fine part in well-corked bottles. Hot Slaw (American).—Required: half a cabbage, butter, seasoning, and vinegar, as below. Cost, about 3d. to 4d. Cut up half the heart of a good- sized, firm, white cabbage; it cannot be shaved too finely. Put it in a saucepan with a lump of butter the size of an egg, a good teaspoonful of salt, and half as much pepper (more if a good seasoning is liked); add vinegar and water j ust to cover ; two-thirds of the former to one-third of the latter. Cover, and cook until tender, stirring often, and serve as hot as possible. A dish made with lettuce instead of cabbage is known as “mock slaw,” and will be found more delicate in flavour than the above. Laver.—Laver is a plant which grows upon rocks near the sea-shore, and is valued on account of its anti- scorbutic qualities. It is generally boiled down to a jelly as soon as it is found, then potted, and sent to distant places for use. To dress it, put a pound into a bright stewpan with three ounces of fresh butter, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon or a Seville orange, and stir it with a silver fork until quite hot. Serve it as hot as possible, either over a lamp or a hot- water dish. Instead of the butter a little gravy may be put into the pan, but lemon juice should never be omitted. To prepare fresh laver, which is in season from October to March, soak it in two or three lots of fresh water, an hour in each, to free it from the salt; then boil it in hot water until soft and mucilaginous ; it may then be finished off in any of the ways directed for spinach; lemon juico always improves it. Serve very hot. It is especially good with roast mutton. The taste for laver is an acquired one; generally speaking, it is liked or disliked ex- tremely. Cost, very uncertain. The purple is considered superior to the green laver. Leek.—This is highly valued for culinary purposes. Its flavour is mild and delicate. In Wales the leek is a great favourite. The chief use of leeks is in broth or soup, but they are excellent as a vegetable. Cost, about 2d. to 4d. per bunch. Leeks, Boiled. — When very young trim off the root, the outer leaves, and the green ends, and cut the stalks into six-inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, after washing them, put them into boiling water, with a dessertspoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar, and let them boil until quite tender. Drain them, and serve like asparagus, on hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter over them. Time, from half an hour to three-quarters. Other sauces may be used with them. Older leeks wiil take nearly or quite an hour and a half. They should be carefully trimmed down to where the green part meets the white, unless, as some- times happens, the green is liked, then more may be left on. The root must always be cut off. Drain them always upside down; the tube-like green parts will hold the water unless this is done. The water from leeks is rank, not suitable for soups. Leeks, Stewed. — After par- boiling, the looks can bo stowed in stock, and made into a brown or white dish as preferred. Recipes given under Onions may bo followed. A very niceUNIVERSAL COOKERY BO®K, 630 dish is a white stow of looks, with somo poached eggs and boiled rice; toast should bo served with it. Lettuce.—Of all the green plants, perhaps not one is more universally appreciated than the lettuce. There are many varieties, but they may bo classed as the cabbage and the cos. The former has a low head, spreading out near the ground, and the leaves are rounder than those of the cos, which are long, and beautifully crisp and sweet at the part known as the heart. In both sorts, the heart forms when the lettuce has reached per- fection, and being excluded from light and air, it is much paler than the out- sides. Lettuces consist very largely of water, and are therefore refreshing and cooling; but for this reason they often produce a good deal of discomfort when eaten at tea; as a matter of fact, the watery plants generally should not bo eaten at a meal when liquid of any sort is consumed in more than very small quantities. A good deal of mineral matter exists in raw lettuces, which is lost when they are boiled. When lettuces become bitter, the stem is to be removed. Cost, from Id. to Gd. each, according to the size and the season. Lettuce, Boiled.—Lettuces can be treated as young cabbuges, and served in just the same way. They take from twenty minutes upwards, according to size. For superior dishes, the hearts only are cooked, and are considered very delicate. They may bo laid on toast, asparagus fashion, after being split lengthwise. Lettuce, Braised Plainly.— Take two large lettuces, reserve the hearts for salads, and divide the rest into leaves. Pack them closely in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter at the bottom, and another ounce on the top; pour half a gill of water over, add a pinch each of sugar and salt, and cook until done, from forty minutes up- wards. Then press the lettuces, lotting the liquid run into the pan; chop them up, add a little flour to the liquid in the pan, stir, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Return the lettuces, and mix the whole together until dry, then press into the dish for serving. Cost, about 8d. Marigold (or Pot Marigold).— This is a garden plant with many good properties; and although less used in culinary than medicinal prepar- ations, it is still employed in many parts of the country in soups and broth, especially mutton broth, to which it gives a good colour and flavour. When in full flower, a store should be gathered, and spread out in the sun to dry, then put by for use. Marigold is said to promote perspira- tion, and is made into tea for invalids. The leaves of this plant are cooked spinach-fashion, in Germany and other countries, and said to be very good eating; young ones are the nicer; but old leaves are used, when freod from their stalks and shredded. Marjoram.—This plant has an agreeable odour, and is used in soups, forcemeats, and other dishes; there are several sorts ; that which is of use in the kitchen is sweet or knotted marjoram. The cultivated garden plant is superior to the wild. Mar- joram is thought by many to be one of the nicest herbs for seasoning sausages, either alone, or mixed with sage. Mint.—With the culture and uses of miut most people are familiar; its pleasant aromatic flavour makes it generally agreeable, but it has more than this to recommend it, being valuable as a stomachic and anti- spasmodic ; hence its value with dried peas soup, and other dishes of a similar kind. Mint forms an ingredient in. many drinks ; and is useful in salads. A stock of fresh mint should be dried and powdered for use in the winter, the herb being so plentiful that it costs next to nothing. Spearmint is the kind employed in cookery, and is-PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 031 distinct from peppermint and hairy- mint. Morel.—This has been described as a mushroom abounding in little holes: it differs much in its appearance from the common mushroom. It is far commoner in the south and middle of Europe than here. It is said to bo less difficult to digest than other fungi, but its main uses are to flavour gravies and sauces; it also makes very good ketchup. It may be prepared in the ways given for Mushrooms, but it has a more delicate flavour, and must not be overpowered with seasoning. Morels may be obtained of Italian warehousemen; they are sold both in the fresh and dried state. Cost, uncertain. Mushroom. — “ When eaten,” says Dr. Lankester, “ this ” (referring to the common mushroom) “ should be fresh gathered, as, after keeping, it acquires properties that render it liable to disagree; ” and in its very best and freshest condition, the mush- room sometimes gives rise to consider- able suffering, and many persons have to avoid it altogether. Those who can digest mushrooms regard them as a great delicacy ; they may be cooked in various ways, and give zest to hosts of dishes. Unfortunately, poisonous fungi are often mistaken for the mushroom, and this has caused both illness and death. On the Continent persons are specially appointed to examine all fungi sent to market— a very wise precaution. Various tests are given for the guidance of the novice: but as many of them can only Ire applied during the cooking (such as stirring with a silver spoon to see if it blackens), they are of little practical value to the purchaser; though we think it seldom that any but the real thing is to be bought in our shops and markets. One test is applicable, by way of judging mushrooms from toadstools; the latter have a putrid sort of smell; whereas the former have a pleasant odour; and when small will be pink on the under side, or rather pinkish brown, while the stalk and head will bo white. As they grow, and the “ buttons ” expand into “ cup ” or “flap” mush- rooms, the pink side gets darker, quite brown, in fact; but the dense black colour of some mushrooms, exposed for sale in back streets in this country, is the result of putrefaction to some ex- tent, and such should not be eaten. Cost, from Gd. to Is. per pound when in full season; they are expensive early in the year. In addition to the recipes in this and the next chapter, others are given in Pastry, Savouries, &c.; see Index. Never be content with wiping, but always wash mushrooms ; buttons should be rinsed in lemon juice and water. Mushrooms, Baked.— For this mode of cooking the flaps are best. It is a good way, because the whole of the juice is preserved. Wash and peel the mushrooms. Put them, without the stems, into a baking-dish, season with pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace, if liked. Small bits of butter laid over the top will, with the juice that flows from them, be the onty sauce required. They should be served on a hot dish, with a small piece of butter on each, and a few drops of lemon juice squeezed over. Time, twenty minutes; longer if large. Mushrooms, Fried. — Small mushrooms are best for frying, but largo ones are often cooked thus. Peel and wash them, and dry them well. Cook them in a frying-pan with a little butter, turning them about well; when done, serve with the liquor from the pan poured over, first seasoning it with salt and pepper, and a little lemon juice ; or the liquor may be poured over a slice of fried or toasted bread, and the mushrooms piled on the lop. Mushrooms are often fried in bacon fat, after the bacon is taken from the pan. Mushrooms, Grilled. — Peel and prepare them a short tiino beforo- ! hand; let them be even in size, then632 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. FOik them in a little oil or liquid butter for half an hour; .grease the gridiron with the superfluous oil, and lay them on, brushing them with oil now and then, and taking care they do not stick to the bars. Serve hot, with a sprinkling of salt and black pepper ; some like cayenne. Broiled mush- rooms are the same thing, except that they are cooked in front of the fire in a Dutch oven, or shallow tin. About twenty minutes should be allowed for medium-sized ones; if underdone they are tough ; and when too much cooked they shrink considerably. In turning, do not stick a fork in ; use a wooden spoon or palette knife. For a cheaper way of grilling, grease the bars of the gridiron with dripping, and just dip the mushrooms into a little warm fat, then drain and season; cook as above directed. Mushrooms, Powdered.—Get large mushrooms, but remove the brown end and the outside skin, and see that they are quite free from grit and dirt. Put two pounds or more into a stewpan with a large onion, six cloves, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and salt. Place them by the side of the fire to heat gradually, and draw their juice, then shake the pan over a clear tiro until the moisture has dried up; this must be done briskly, or the mushrooms will get burnt and useless. Dry them in a cool oven; they will require to be put in several times, until they can be reduced to fine powder; they may be pounded, then passed through a hair siovo. Powdered mushrooms may be bought in bottles at about ninepence, or less; and as a small quantity goes a long way, it is as economical to buy as to prepare them at home, unless they can be had for the gathering. It is necessary to store the powder in small bottles, with good corks, and to wax them well over. Mushrooms, Puree of. — See the recipes for Mushroom Sauce ; prepare the puree in the same way, but make it thicker, using more mush- rooms, and less stock. Flavour it delicately. (See also Dhesszd Vege- TAHLES.) Mushrooms, Stewed.- Furious ways of stewing mushrooms might be given ; an American fashion is to put them in a jar in the oven, moistening with pale stock, and sea- soning with salt and pepper, and sometimes lemon juice, and mace, or nutmeg. When half done a little milk is added, and a thickening of flour and butter. As soon as done, they are served plainly, or on toast. Another way.—If flap mushrooms aro used, the stock may be dark, but it should not be highly flavoured with other vegetables; if large, break the mushrooms up, and after cooking them I gently, with seasoning to taste, add roux to make the gravy as thick as cream; and serve as above directed. A morsel of onion is sometimes added, or a little bunch of herbs, but the mushroom flavour must not be destroyed. Browned flour does instead of roux for plain stews. Mushrooms, Stewed in But- ter.—Take a pint and a half of button mushrooms; cleanse them, and put them in an enamelled stewpan with three ounces of butter, first melted and allowed to brown a little. Stir them gently, and shake over a moderate fire for the butter to cling well to the mushrooms. Then add a very little powdered mace or nutmeg, and some salt, white pepper, and cayenne. Cover, and cook until done, when the}' will be found excellent as a breakfast or luncheon dish. They may be served on toast, or with a garnish of croutons. They may be eaten cold, and the butter from them will be useful for forcemeats. Thus prepared, they may be kept some time if put in small pots, and covered with clarified butter. They can be used up as required. When plentiful, they are well worth the trouble of preserving thus. Mushrooms, Tinned. — We have seen it stated that tinned mush- rooms answer every purpose of fresh633 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. ones. With this we do not agre9 ; as they cannot be grilled, fried, &c., so as to resemble either in form, flavour, or aroma, the fresh article. But they are, for all that, very useful, us the mushrooms themselves are quickly re- heated, and may be served in white sauce, or used for garnishing purposes, or they can be chopped up and sieved, and used for forcemeats, &e.; and for the latter purpose they are particularly useful when fresh mushrooms are scarce and dear. The liquor, too, is excellent for adding to the gravy of a piece of braised meat, and for sauces and gravies generally. Like all goods of the class, they must not be left in the tin after it is opened; then, so far as we have been able to ascertain, there is little, if any, danger attending their use; and purchasers may rest assured that they are getting mushrooms, and not toadstools; because in the districts where they are tinned for export, only properly grown mushrooms are used in the trade. Cost, from 6d. or 8d. per tin upwards. Mushrooms may also be bought in bottles; these are to be preferred to the tinned ones. Mustard and Cress. —Since these are generally eaten together, they may be described together, al- though almost everyone is familiar with the tiny green leaves of this popular salad. The seeds may be sown upon any moist surface, and in addition to the uses of these plants for salads, they are so wholesome, that their amalgamation with parsley and other herbs, commonly added to broth and soup, i3 much to be recommended. If thrown into either a minute before serving, they impart an agreeable flavour ; or a small quantity might be added to purees of various sorts, to give pungency. Their value as gar- nish is well known ; they give a coo], appetising appearance to cold meats. Nasturti tun.—Indian Cress is another name for this elegant plant. The flowers are used as garnish for salads and other dishes; the young leaves are also employed in salads. The seeds are pickled, and may bo used as substitutes for capers. (See recipes under Salads, Seasonings, Pickles, and Sandwiches.) Cost, uncertain, being seldom sold in the manner of ordinary salad plants and herbs. Nettles,—The common nettle is one of a tribe of plants that includes the hop, fig, and others used as food. In many country places nettles are eaten freely in the spring, as they are valued as a blood purifier ; they are so wholesome as to be almost medicinal in their properties ; and deserve to bo much better known and more gener- ally consumed. The young, light, green leaves only are the parts to be eaten; if old, coarse leaves are cooked, the dish will be voted not worth the trouble. To prepare them, cut the leaves off with scissors, or put gloves on and pick them off; wash them as carefully as spinach, and boil in plenty of water, salted as usual. Some advise two waters, with a pinch of soda in the second; but this is only necessary when past their prime. They will take about twenty minutes to cook, and may be served plainly, or receive any of the additions given for Spinach. In taking them from the rinsing water ready for the boiling pot, by using a spoon or vegetable slice, there is no fear of stinging; and while washing them, a wooden spoon or stick should be used to stir them. Cost, uncertain, being seldom sold. Those who may make trial of nettles plainly cooked, and find them palatable, are advised to try them in the form of purees of the better class, as they quite merit the slightly in- creased cost. Oils and Fats, Vegetable.— By the term fats, we include all those that are semi-solid and such as are of firm, butter-like consistence. The en- tire group is now very largely employed for culinary purposes, especially by the class of vegetarians who refrain from the use of butter on principle. As a sub- stitute for tho latter, it is not easy to got a better substitute than cocoa-nutUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 634 butter, and it costs but about 7d. per pound. A preparation sold as “ vege- table butter,” and which is probably a mixture of fats, is also satisfactory; there are two forms of this—a solid and a liquid; or, as we ought to say, a semi-solid, to be strictly correct, the thinner kind being like thick oil in appearance. The first is used for pastry and cakes; the second for frying, and for dressings for vegetables and salads. Of the oils that may be regarded as substitutes for olive oil, those of the walnut, poppy, palm, and cotton seed may be mentioned. Walnut oil is largely consumed in France, and many consider that the finest sorts are de- cidedly superior to inferior olive oil. Cotton seed is wholesome; but it has a drawback in smelling strongly when liented. An oil sold as “ vegetable oil ” is a compound of vegetable pro- ducts of guaranteed purity; the oils we have named, with others, enter into it. The average cost of a good oil of this sort may be calculated at from 4s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. per gallon, or less if several gallons are bought at once. The very best should be bought for cakes and pastry and for the frying of delicate sweets ; also for salads. The cheaper kinds will answer for some purposes ; but the difference in cost is but trifling, and better results will follow' the use of the best brands. In all our recipes for strictly vegetarian dishes, when no special mention is made of any oil or fat, either of the articles now under discussion may be used. These products can be had from dealers in vegetarian specialities in London and most large towns. It is important that the goods be fresh, and for this reason a firm that does a large trade and whose stock is being con- stantly renewed should be applied to for them. For olive oil, see the chapter on Salads. Okra (or Gumbo).—This is a favourite in the East and West Indies; it entei's largely into the composition of many dishes of the class known as “ pepper pot.” It is now to be had in this country in tins. Okra is the fruit of a plant; it is greenish in colour, and contains seeds not unlike pearl barley in appearance; it is cut up into pieces before canning. By some it is disliked on account of its viscidity and peculiar flavour; others regard it as a great delicacy. To serve this as a vege- table, turn the contents of a tin into a lined saucepan ; add a little seasoning, and boil. Those who are unaccustomed to okra, will like it better if a little thickened stock or gravy be added; but w'hen the palate has become “seasoned,” such additions are gener- ally voted a mistake. A slight flavour of tomatoes is considered a great im- provement by some persons ; the pulp of the fresh fruit, or some conserve or catsup, may be used according to taste. Cost, about Is. per tin. Okra and Tomatoes.—A mix- ture of these fruits is to be had in tins; they only need heating as directed for okra. Cost, about 9d. to Is. 3d., according to size, from a pint to nearly a quart; the smaller tins are the more readily obtainable. Olives.—These can only be ob- tained in this country in the preserved state; they are sent from France, Italy, and Spain. The Italian olives are much esteemed for dessert, or handing between the courses as a whet to the appetite, and to clear the palate. French olives are small, and a dark green. Spanish are larger, and yellowish green in colour. Olives are largely used for garnishing, and for all sorts of savoury dishes, salads, &c.; they are also added to various meats, ns described in some of our recipes; and to sauce. (See Olive Sauce, in Hot Sauces.) If too salt for any purpose, they may be soaked in cold water; or, for gravies, &c., they can be blanched, by putting into cold wTater and bring- ing to the boil. The fruit must always be kept covered in the bottle; if ex- posed to the air, it will spoil. To turn or stone an olive, pass a knife in aPLAIN VEGETABLE COOICERV. G35 slanting direction into it until the edge touches the stone; then cut round the stone, keeping the knife close against it. The stone will come out clean, and the olive resume its shape. This should be done, whether for stewing in gravy, or for stuffing (or farcing) for salads and savoury dishes, as described in our recipes, for which see Index. Olives may be bought ready stuffed; they are called Olives Farcies. They cost from Is. 6d. per bottle upwards. Plain olives may be bought from 6d, or less for a small bottle. Olive Oil.—(-See Salads.) Onion.—This well-known vege- table may be regarded either as a condiment or as an article of real nourishment. By boiling it is de- prived of much of its pungent, volatile oil, and becomes agreeable, mild, and nutritious. It is not so wholesome either fried or roasted. There is no vegetable about which there is so much diversity of opinion. Generally speaking, a slight flavouring of onion is an improvement to the majority of made dishes, bnt it should not be too strong. The smell which arises from the esculent during cooking, and the unpleasant odour it imparts to the breath of those who partake of it, are the principal objections which are urged against it. The latter may be partially remedied by eating a little raw parsley after it. When onions are used for stuffing, the unpleasant properties belonging to them would be considerably lessened if a lemon, freed from the outer rind, but covered as thickly as possible with the white skin, were put in the midst of them, and thrown away when the dish is ready for the table. Onions may be rendered much milder if two or three waters are used in boiling them. Spanish onions are not so strong as English ones, and are generally con- sidered superior in flavour. The largest are the best. Onions, as well as garlic, ahalots, chives, and leeks, contain a principle called allyle, to which they owe their peculiar flavour. When young, the onion is eaten raw, pickled, and served in other ways. The onion contains a good deal of nourishment, and is said to act as a stimulant to the stomach when eaten raw, if it can be digested; but it is found to produce unpleasant symptoms in some instances, though it seldom gives trouble when cooked It is an excellent restorative, and in cases of restlessness a supper of cooked onions will often produce a night’s sleep. Cost, about Id. or lid. per pound on an average.* (See Index for various recipes.) Onions, Baked.—For serving with roast mutton, use medium-sized onions; peel, and boil them for a quarter of an hour, then throw them in cold water for a short time; dry them, and slice them evenly; lay them in a single layer in a greased baking- tin, and brush the top side over with butter or clarified fat; baste now and then, and cook until brown and tender. Drain, and serve hot, with a dust of cayenne over if approved; small onions may bo parboiled and baked whole. Onions, Baked in Paper.— Spanish onions, unpeeled, are best for this dish ; choose medium-sized ones, and boil them until about half done; then put each into a piece of greased paper, and bake slowly until done; they will take two hours or more altogether. Remove the skins, and serve hot, with any sauce or gravy if for a separate course; but they are delicious with roast or stewed meat; the flavour by this method being so well preserved. They may be steamed after peeling, then finished off as above. Onions, Baked in Saucers.— A very nice way of cooking onions, is to take some Spanish ones, and put them separately into tin saucers (a spit of deep patty pan, saucer shaped), with a bit of butter; the onions are to be peeled, and if cooked gently, with occasional basting, they should bo pale • Young onions amt pickling onions are sold by the bunch, and by measure.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 636 brown at the finish; they will take from two to three hours, unless par- boiled, when they will take less time, but the flavour will be milder; this, to many, is an advantage. Onions, Boiled.—Peel and cut them twice across at the root end; pour boiling water over in a basin, cover, and strain in a few minutes; this is called scalding, by means of which a good deal of the strong flavour is got rid of. Put them in boiling water, plenty of it, with a teaspoonful of salt to the quart, and a pinch of sugar for English onions ; cook until tender, and if wanted very mild for sauce, &c., change the wator when they are half done. Persons who onjov the full flavour of the vegetable need not scald them, or change the water. Time, according to size and kind; from one to two hours on an average; very large ones will take nearly three hours ; small button onions are nice boiled; they will take from half to three-quarters of an hour only. Onions, Boiled, for Superior Dishes.—Onions that are to be used in high-class sauces, or purees, when colour is an object, as well as mild flavour, should be treated as follows : —After peeling and washing, put them on to boil with cold water to cover, and a pinch of salt; when it boils, strain, and wash the onions in fresh cold water ; leave them in a large basin of cold water for a short time, then cook them as above, changing the water once. If English onions, only the mild varieties must be used; not old, coarse onions; and if milk is used in place of the second water they will be much nicer. Onions, Browned.—Take small onions, and boil them until almost done; drain them, and take the outer skins off ; then put them in a saute or frying-pan, with just enough hot fat to keep them from burning; add a pinch of sugar, and turn the onions about until lightly browned all over. Use for garnishing a roast or stew, or serve with steaks, chops, &c. Onions, Fried.—Do not attempt to fry very old, strong onions, because, in order to make them palatable, they would need parboiling, then they do not brown so well. Take young onions, peel and slice them thinly, and put them in a frying-pan with hot fat to keep them from burning; do not add salt; turn them about until tender and brown ; the time will vary accord- ing to age and thickness of the slices. After putting them in the fat, in a minute draw the pan hack for a little, that they may cook; then give greater heat again towards the end to brown up well. Or put the sliced onions in the pan, and cover for a time that they may cook, then uncover and pour off a little of the fat; turn them about until well browned. In slicing, cut across, that the slices may form rings ; if cut lengthwise, from crown to root, they remain intact. Onions, Stewed, Brown.— Required: onions, stock, seasoning, fat, and thickening. Cost, about 2d. per pound. Peel the onions, about the size of a small orange is convenient if to be cooked whole; put them in a single layer in a saucepan with an ounce or two of clarified fat. or other frying medium, and turn them about until lightly browned. If Spanish onions, be careful not to cut the tops too short, or the bulb will fall to pieces in stewing ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and a pinch of sugar; pour off the fat after browning, and add a little stock, No. 1 or 2, and cook until done. A short time before they are taken up, thicken a little with browned flour, or roux, and season to taste; to some tastes vinegar is an improvement. With a dish of rice cooked in a savoury manner, onions so prepared are very enjoyable. Time, about an hour and a half. Onions, Stewed, White.—Re- quired : onions, stock, milk, flour, butter, and seasoning. Cost, about 2d. per pound. In place of the stock given above,PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G37 use that from any white moat, and do not brown the onions at first, but sweat them in a little butter. When almost done, thicken with flour mixed with milk, to make the sauce of the consistence of ordinary melted butter; or it can be made thicker if the onions are served on toast. A little grated cheese is sometimes liked with stewed onions. Another way. — Boil some small onions until almost done, then put them in a saucepan with Bice Sauce to cover; stew softly for a few minutes and serve hot. Many other com- binations will be found equally satis- factory. Parsley.—The foliage of parsley is of use for flavouring soups, &c., besides which it is nutritious and stimulating, a quality which it seems to derive from an essential oil present in every part of the plant. There are several varieties of parsley in use. Plain-leaved parsley used to be the only sort employed in cooking. It is not much cultivated now, however, the curled varieties being much more elegant; besides—and this is a good reason for avoiding it—it bears a marked resemblance to a poisonous British weed, fool’s parsley. It is well to know that the leaves of fool’s parsley are of a darker hue than the genuine article, and that when bruised they emit a very un- pleasant odour. When in flower, fool’s parsley may also be distinguished by what is popularly termed its head. Cnrl-leaved parsley, both for flavour and appearance as a garnish, is the best sort of parsley. Naples parsley, or celery parsley, is used in place of celery. It is a variety between parsley and celery. Hamburg parsley is cultivated for its roots. These grow as large as small parsnips. When boiled they are very tender, and agreeable to the taste, besides being very wholesome. 'They are used in soup or broth, or eaten with meat. Parsley is sometimes very scarce and dear, and it is well to bear in mind that the stalks need never be thrown away; they can always be used in some way or other for flavour- ing purposes. To keep parsley fresh for table, the stalks only should bo put into water; if the leaves are immersed, they soon decay and smell unpleasantly. A good imitation, when parsley is not to be had, is to boil a bit of the seed (tied in muslin) in the water for sauce, stews, &c., for a few minutes; a bit of spinach or other green stuff, boiled and chopped, will give the appearance of parsley. Parsley, Dried, for Winter Use.—Pick the nicest and greenest sprigs in May, June, and July. Wash them well, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted. Let them boil for one minute, then take them out, drain and dry them before the fire as quickly as possible, put them in a tin box, and store them in a dry place. Before using the parsley, soak it in warm water for a few minutes to freshen it. Parsley, Dried, and Pow- dered.—After washing the sprigs, and picking them from their stalks, dry them in a cloth, and put them in a single layer in a warm place to dry ; the plate rack, or a corner of the range, or the oven; the quicker the drying process the nicer will be the colour. Have ready some dry, wide- necked bottles; rub the parsley to- gether to powder it, and pass it through a fine sieve, that it may be uniformly fine. Store for use after corking the bottles well. All the coarse that does not go through can be kept for flavouring; the fine is useful for stuffing, and other purposes. People who have no garden will find it as cheap to buy the parsley ready prepared as to buy it and powder it at home. Parsley, Fried for Garnish- ing.—Pick the parsley into sprigs, largo or small, as required. Dry them, aftor washing thoroughly, either in a cloth or vegetable basket; if a cloth,UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 638 tako up the opposite corners, and pass the parsley backwards and forwards; or gather up the folds to form a looso hag, and swing it about. If a basket be used, it must he shaken well; a cloth is also wanted for the final draining. Tho fat must be in readi- ness, and very hot; the parsley should crisp at once, hut not turn brown, therefore it must not be left a second after it is crisp. Drain it before the fire on a sheet of kitchen paper. Nice clean fat should be used, not that which has been long in use. Parsley Sauce.—See Sauces. Parsley, to Wash and Chop. —Parsley is often very gritty; it should be put first of all into plenty of tepid water and stirred about with tho hand; the sprigs should be small, and freed from their stalks. Then wash it in cold water, several times renewed, or leave the parsley in a sieve or colander under a running tap; the washing, which needs to be very thorough, is often exceedingly im- perfect. When the water runs off clean, squeeze the parsley in the comer of a clean cloth (twisting in contrary directions, like clothes are wrung), then chop it finely. The drier it is wrung the better it will chop ; and by using a sharp knife, and keeping the parsley concentrated in a little pile, instead of spreading it all over the board, the operation is soon per- formed. Parsnip.—This is a native of Britain. It contains a good deal of sugar and woody fibre, and by many is disliked on account of its peculiar sweetness and texture. It is a very frequent accompaniment to salt fish or salt beef. The common parsnip is a cultivated variety of the wild parsnip. The roots are used for making a fermented liquor in some parts of Ireland, and parsnip wine is a favourite almost everywhere. Parsnips resemble carrots, and may be cooked in the same ways, but they take less time; they are used in the winter for the most part, and are improved by frost. Cost, about the same as carrots. In many recipes throughout this work, parsnips may be added to tho other ingredients, when it is known that they are not disliked; but they should always be very sparingly used, unless they are really liked, as many persons would reject any dish into which they entered. Tho stringy portion should always be taken from the thin end, however parsnips are to be dressed. In the following recipe for boiled parsnips, we have given the usual method; but when very old, they are better cooked by reducing the temperatur e of the water at starting; it may he warm or tepid only. Parsnips, Boiled.—Wash and peel the parsnips if old; if young, scrape them only, and remove the peel with a cloth when done. Take off a little slice from the root end, and cut them through twice, if large; once, if small. Boil them precisely as directed for Carrots until tender enough for a skewer to pierce them easily. After- draining, serve them as soon as pos- sible. The water must be skimmed well, and all blemishes carefully re- moved from the parsnips; these pre- cautions will make a difference to both flavour and appearance. Time varies considerably; young ones may be done in half an hour; old ones may take an hour and a half. Some prefer to cut the parsnips in two, and boil the thin end as it is, and cut the root end into halves or quarters; this facilitates the cooking. Thoso who aro partial to the flavour, may use the water, with other vegetable stock, for soups or other dishes; if mixed with tho water from rice, macaroni, haricots, &c., it is freed from its sweetness, and made palatable. Parsnips, Browned. — These will be relished by some who do not like boiled parsnips. After cooking as above until almost done, they should be drained and dried, then floured, and seasoned with salt and pepper, and639 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY, browned up in the dripping-pan in tho oven, or before the fire, under tho joint they are to accompany. Same should be put on the dish with the joint; the rest served in a vegetable dish. Parsnips and Potatoes.—This is a favourite dish in some parts of Scotland. Mashed potatoes and chopped or mashed parsnips are just beaten together with pepper and salt, and a little butter or dripping, then stirred over the fire for a minute, and served hot in a vegetable dish; or they can be pressed into a dripping-tin, browned up before the fire, and cut in squares like Yorkshire Pudding. Peas.—The pea has been cultivated as a culinary vegetable from a very early period. Either as a horticultural or as an agricultural product the pea is of great importance. In a green state the seeds are held to bo one of our most esteemed vegetables, when boiled; when ripe they are much used in forming a favourite and nutritious soup. The choicest kinds are grown in gardens to be eaten green, but vast quantities are also cultivated in the fields, and allowed to ripen for drying. Grey peas are coarse in flavour, and are used solely as food for horses and cattle. Peas are sown in the garden at different periods, so that they may be fit for gathering in suc- cession. They are usually divided into early and late peas; the former, which constitute one of the great luxuries of the beginning of summer, are often forced on hot-beds. The peas, however, which are best in quality are those which have been brought to maturity by the natural heat of summer. Peas vary much in price; the best garden ones are sold often at from 2d. to 3d. per pound (unshelled); or by the peck in other places, from Is. to 2s. being average prices. Field peas and garden peas, when past their best, may often be got for 6d. per peck; and when too old for table, will make good soup. Peas are often ex- posed for sale ready shelled: they are certainly easy to carry home, and may bo a boon to some very busy people; but it is questionable if these advan- tages will make up for the probable toughness and loss of flavour, con- sequent upon their exposure to air and sun. Besides the recipes that follow in the present chapter, and under Diiessed Vegetahles [see Index), peas enter into a great number of dishes in this work. For dishes of dried peas, see recipes under Pulse in the preceding chapter. Peas, to Bottle.— Gather tho peas on a hot day, and shell them out- of-doors in the sun; spread out on sheets of paper, and leave for a few hours; put them into dry bottles, and shake them down well; set them in a pot of water, and bring to the boil over a gentle fire (wrap each bottle in rag or hay wisps), and let the water reach to the necks. Keep the water simmering until the peas look tender, then fill the ’bottles with boiling water, salted as for fresh peas. Pour a spoonful of pure salad oil, or melted suet, in the neck of each, and fix in the corks securely. Have ready some bottling wax, melted; take each bottle in the hand with a cloth, and wipe the necks dry, or the wax will not stick; then dip the corked end in the wax, to get a good coating all over the cork and neck of the bottle. Take the pot from the fire, pour oil some of tho water, and set the bottles back in it until the water is cold; then take them out, wipe carefully, and set aside in a dry pkice. In taking tho bottles from tho pot for waxing, remove them ono by one, and set them on something warm, until they are ready to go back into the water : if put on a stone floor or a sink, they would crack; an old tray or baking-sheet, set. on a cool corner of the cooking-range, is the best thing to use. When first put in the wator, the necks should be only lightly covered or corked; but it is essential that fresh, new corks be used for tho final640 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. sealing. Peas thus preserved must be opened before being re-heated for table, for the purpose of removing the oil from them; they should then bo turned into a saucepan with the liquor from the bottle. Another way.—Proceed as directed above, until the peas are soft; then, instead of putting in water, take some of the bottles, and fill up all the rest, shaking them down as full as possible; put a good pinch of salt in each, and cover with bladder, or wax them as above; let them cool in the same way, and dry each bottle very thoroughly; then wrap in brown paper, or stack them upright in a box of bran or saw- dust. Another way. — This is an old method, and said to be a good one. Fill dry, wide-necked bottles with young, freshly-shelled peas; after shelling, they should be rubbed with a dry cloth ; let them be as close as possible; the bottles should be shaken several times. Add nothing to them ; just tin down with bladder, then bury them in a dry part of the garden until required. Cook them just as fresh peas, in any way required, but allow extra time, and add butter. We have seen this plan recommended for peas that have been dried in the sun, or in a cool oven, and think that thus treated, they would be the more likely to keep. Peas, Green, Boiled.—To be eaten in perfection, peas must be young and freshly gathered, and shelled just before they are cooked. Rinse them in cold water, then drain, and put them on to boil in plenty of water, with a teaspoonful of salt to the half-gallon. It should boil and be will skimmed before the peas are put in. The lid should be kept off all the time, and the peas kept at a steady boil with an occasional skim. If there is great inequality in the size, the peas should be “sized’’ as much as possible, that the largest may go in first. If mint is known to be liked, tie a little bunch up, and boil it with the peas, taking care to wash it. By some a slight flavour only is liked, then just a sprig should be put in a few minutes before the peas are done. Strain through a heated colander, and serve in a hot dish. When butter is added (some persons object to it) it can be dropped in the centre, or the peas may be put in a clean saucepan with the butter, and shaken over the fire for a few seconds. For old peas, a bit of sugar is a great improvement, and it is added by many to young ones. For very hard water or old peas, a pinch of carbonate of soda or powdered borax is a good addition ; but to make a rule of using either of the softening agents is a mistake, for young peas need no such aids. One rule is absolute: Do not shell the peas long before they are wanted, for no vege- table suffers more from exposure to the air. Some persons sholl them over-night to save time in the morn- ing ; such do not oat them in anything like perfection. In the opinion of a French chef, should it be necessary to shell peas half an hour or less before cooking, they should bo protected by means of a folded cloth wrung out of cold water, and set by in a cool, dark place. Peas, Green (Sir Henry Thomp- son’s way). — “ Garden peas when young, quickly grown, and fresh, have a delicious characteristic flavour of their own, are sweet and almost crisp when eaten, and maintain these attributes unimpaired, if simply boiled in salt and water. Such should be eaten a VAnglaise, the use of the term itself being a tacit admission on the part of the French chef that the simple cooking advocated here, and practised in this country, is in this instance justifiable. All that is produced under this name is a dish of peas cooked as described, served with a pat of fresh butter, and some salt, accompanied by the capital little pepper mill, which is natural to a French table, and almost unknown here. A morsel of the butter is stirred into the hot peas, a littleG41 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. black pepper, full of fragrance, freshly ground, over them, and a pinch of salt according to taste, and the whole stirred.” The author adds in a foot-note that the pepper mill “ has now for some time been growing in favour here, and may be seen at many tables, and for sale in many shops but at the time the foregoing was written, he could not have found a table pepper mill in London, and obtained his own in Paris. Peas, Green, Puree, Vege- tarian.—Required: a lettuce, peas, butter or oil, seasoning, thickening, eggs, and toast, as below. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. 6d., if four eggs be used. The peas should *be shelled, and put into an enamelled saucepan, with a large lettuce cut into shreds, and two ounces of butter or oil (if the latter, olive must be used) to each quart, measured after shelling. In another pan, at the same time, put some of the best of the shells, and cover with water, a little salt and sugar ; boil fast until well reduced, and the liquor is flavoured nicely. While the shells are cooking, the peas should be cooked gently in the butter, and a spoonful or two of water. When soft, add some of the liquor from the shells, and some of the shells themselves rubbed through a sieve, then pass all through a sieve together; or, to save trouble, mash the peas up well with a fork before adding the liquor. Finally, add a little white thickening, with a few drops of green colouring, and season to taste; serve hot with toast, and poached or fried eggs. Time, nearly or quite an hour. Peaa, Green, Stewed. — Re- quired : peas, sugar, salt, and pepper, butter, flour, and stock. Cost, about 6d. 'Phis recipe applies especially to peaa which are somewhat old and tough. Shell them, and cover with boiling water; add a lump of sugar and an ounce of butter to a quart of shelled peas, and a saltspoonful of salt, with the smallest possible pinch of carbonate of soda; boil until the water is almost dried up; by the time the peas are tender, there should be none to drain off: to ensure this, boil quicker during tlie latter stage. When quite soft, add a little stock made from the shells, about a gill, mixed with a teaspoonful of flour or corn- flour ; boil up, stirring it well amongst the peas; add another little pat of butter, and serve. To peas stewed in any way, many persons add a little chopped mint, and a few young onions are liked by some. Another way.—Instead of the stock and flour advised above, a few table- spoonfuls of white sauce or plain melted butter can be used; then a little green colouring improves the dish: otherwise it looks pale. To make a puree of the above, pass the peas, &c., through a sieve before the thickening is added; then re-boil with the thickening. Pile in the centre of cutlets, &c.; or, for a separate dish, garnish with crotrtons. Peas, Green, Tinned.—Nine- teen out of every twenty tins of peas may be pronounced excellent; and, although there is a difference in the quality, it is very seldom that a really inferior tin is met with. While it would be foolish to use these in place of fresh peas, it should be remembered that by the aid of tinned peas a dish may be had all the year round, which, would otherwise be confined to a few weeks in the year. The peas may be heated in their own liquor in the tin; if put into a saucepan of cold water, they will be heated through in about a quarter of an hour after boiling point is reached, and should then be strained from the liquor, and mixed with a little white sugar and salt, and, if liked, a pinch of pepper and a pat of butter ; see last page. If to be made into a puree, treat them precisely like fresh peas; but if some of the liquor from the tin bo used in moistening them, they will have a better flavour than if it is all strained off. ForUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 642 making poa soup, all the liquor in tho tin should, be utilised. (For another mode of re-heating, see Asparagus, Tinned, page 609.) Cost, about 6d. for tins holding a nominal pint; double-size tins are from lOd. to lid. each. In our recipes, “a tin of peas” refers to a pint tin. Peas are put up in bottles, both by French and English firms ; _ they are rather dearer than those in tins. In this form, both large marrow-fats and very small peas may be obtained. Pennyroyal.—This is a strong herb, and wants using with caution ; a small quantity improves many soups, of what are termed the gelatinous kinds, such as mock turtle, and similar preparations. It is blended with other herbs; its own flavour should not be allowed to predominate. Potato. — This is one of tho cheapest and commonest of vegetable foods. There are many varieties of potatoes, and generally each locality has its favourite, which is known by its local name. Its excellence depends largely upon the cooking, and whilst a good potato may easily be spoilt by bad cooking, a bad one may, with care, be made fairly good eating. Meali- ness is -a sign of goodness ; a waxy, watery potato is never really satis- factory. Perhaps nothing is more frequently wasted than potatoes, both in the preparation and cooking', and in the throwing away after cooking; but there is no excuse for waste in either of these forms. As to the using up of cold potatoes, there is no end to the ways, as they can be used both for sweets and savouries; and in addition to the recipes which follow here and in the next chapter, others will be found in the chapters on Soups, Salads, Cold Meat and Scrap Cookery, Pies, Puddings, &c. It has been said that the average English- woman leans too much upon the potato. There is truth in the remark ; and no doubt the absence of a pro- nounced flavour, and tho ease with which it can be procured and pre- pared, are tho main causes. Old pota- toes may be had the year round, but are not at their best just before, and while the now ones are in season; in tho autumn and winter they are in prime condition, if properly stored. At the time of storing they must be dry, or they will rot, and a few rotten ones will contaminate a large quantity. Tho value of the potato as an article of nutriment is illustrated by the remark made by a professor of chemistry, that “ a horse fed on pota- toes, and compelled to work, loses weight j when he does no work, his weight remains unchanged.” This shows that the root is unable to supply the loss by “ motor change ” when active muscular exertion is undergone; and although valuable on account of their salts, potatoes are of small food value on the whole, and, according to the late Professor Williams, their loss would not be much felt where fruits and salads could supply the salts. Of tho relative value of potatoes, it is estimated that at a halfpenny per pound, they arc dearer than good bread at three-halfpence. This may seem a mis-statement; but it should be remembered that three-fourths, or thereabouts, of every pound is made up of water; thus, four pounds repre- sents only one pound of “ water free ” food; and we hope to show in the recipes the best way to make the most of it. As a few rules are generally applicable to the various methods of cooking, they may be given here. Always scrub them well with a brush, and wash them clean before peeling, that they may not become discoloured by contact with dirty water. Do not peel them and leave them soaking in the water hours before cooking; and peel them as thinly as possible, because the best part lies just under the skin. This, in fact, holds the potato together, so to speak (the composition of the interior is different), and if it is removed by clumsy peeling, as it often is, the potato will fall to pieces.PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 643 Do not cut them (if to bo served as a vegetable) before boiling if it can bo helped; as they absorb more water if cut, and lose moro of their soluble salts than if whole. For soups it is different; they should bo cut then, that thev may' amalgamate with the liquid. Never omit salt in boiling; not only for its flavour, but because it makes the outer part firm, and prevents breaking to an extent; a good supply of salt, by increasing the temperature of the water above boiling point, will bring about good results; see the first recipe for Potatoes, Boiled. Potatoes cooked in their skins are more nutritious than when peeled ; a baked one is better than a boiled one, because the starch grains are more perfectly ruptured, the salts are better preserved, and solanine, the poisonous principle, is completely dissipated by' dry heat; the result is mealiness, good colour, and a particularly sweet flavour. In purchasing potatoes, it is true economy to get the very best; and when a good store is laid in at a time the sizing is easy; the largest should he kept for baking in their skins; the medium ones answer for general pur- poses. Cost, about a penny or less per pound in good seasons. Potatoes, Baked.—Choose large potatoes of uniform size. Wash them well in lukewarm water, and scrub the skins with a soft brush. Dry them thoroughly'. Put them in the oven, and bake until done enough. Do not let them remain in the oven after they'are cooked, or they will become hard and shrivelled. Serve on a hot napkin neatly' folded, and send pats of butter to table with them. The oven should be of a good heat, but not fierce enough to scorch them ; they should be turned a few times while baking, and, shortly before they are done, a hole or two should be made in each with a skewer for the escape of the steam. Be careful not to leave them too long, or they will burst. Baked potatoes so often form a separate dish, that it is well to vary it by serving a little sauce with them for a change (see Hot Sauces). Good- sized ones will take nearly or quito two hours. Potato Balls.—Required: pota- toes, milk, egg, and seasoning. Cost, about 4d. Steam or bako in their skins some mealy potatoes; add to a pound, a tablespoonful of boiling milk and part of a beaten egg, with a little salt and pepper; cayenne and nutmeg are some- times added. The mass must be beaten well, and, when cool, made into balls the size of a nutmeg or smaller, then coated with the rest of the egg', and rolled in fine bread-crumbs. The balls may be fried brown, or baked in a greased tin in a sharp oven, turning them as required. Potatoes, Boiled.—Wash and peel the potatoes (see page 042); have ready some boiling water salted (a tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon), drop in the potatoes, the largest a few minutes before the others if not equal in size, and cook very slowly; the water should just simmer the whole time. It is common to read—“just cover them with water;” but plenty of room is required; if crowded in a small pan with little water, the potatoes are liable to break : everything containing starch wants room to swell. When a skewer will pierce them easily', take them up; if left, they will break and absorb the water. A fork is generally' used for trying potatoes, but a skewer is preferable, as it makes one hole only; again, less chance of breaking them. After straining, give the saucepan a shake, and set it near, not on the fire ; remove tho lid, and lay over the pota- toes a soft, lightly-crumpled cloth (an old serviette or piece of a tablecloth). In five minutes or rather moro, tho last traces of moisture will have dis- appeared, and tho potatoes, if a good sort, will be mealy. Dish in a hot dish. A warm serviette is tho best cover; many high authorities condemn the lid of the dish, both for potatoes and rice, but it is almost suro to hold its own. in deference to custom.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 6*4 Inspecting the above method, we may add that many writers who have made a study of scientific cookery are in favour of the boiling water plan; though we are well aware that, by cooks generally, the cold water plan, as given in the next recipe, is con- sidered correct for old potatoes. Some give no reason for the preference; others say that if potatoes are put in boiling water, the outside breaks before the middle is done. In reply, we suggest a trial of the method—the rules given on page 642 to be carried out minutely—and we think that the verdict will be in favour of it. Another ivay.—Peel anc^ cover the potatoes with cold water, salted; briqg to the boil, then simmer for twenty minutes, more or less, according to size; the)' may be strained a few minutes beforo they are done, covered with a cloth, and left near the fire to finish ; or they may be strained just when ready, and served at once, after a shake over the fire. Should the potatoes break—as they sometimes will, in spite of every pre- caution—it is better to mash them than to send a dish of so-called whole ones to table in an unsightly condition. Potatoes, Boiled in their Jackets.—If sent to table in their skins, a small plate should be put to each person for the reception of the skins. It cannot be said to be a tidy or con- venient method of sending to table (as they are not so easily removed as from baked potatoes), and it is perhaps better to cook them thus, and peel them quickly before serving. A saucepan should be ready by the fire, and when all are peeled, a minute’s shaking over the fire is required. It is quite true that potatoes thus cooked have what is described as an earthy taste ; this can be removed in a great measure by changing the water when they are half done ; it should contain more salt than for peeled potatoes; cold water is generally used, but we incline to the boiling-water plan, and, save the addition of the salt and an increase of time, the rules for peeled potatoes (first recipe) should be followed. Time varies according to their size and the condition of the skins ; they may take nearly an hour, or be done in" forty minutes. Another very good way to serve is to take each potato in the corner of a soft cloth, and give it a sharp twist to dry and shape it neatly, as soon as peeled. There is one drawback, viz., the little waste, as a small portion will stick to the cloth. This is sometimes done before serving ordinary boiled potatoes. An Irish method of boiling potatoes is to cook them so that they may have, as they call it, a “bone” in'them: that is, be rather firm in the middle. They are put into an iron pot with a good supply of salt, and boiled until the skins crack. The water is then pourod off, and the potatoes are loft with a cloth on by the fire for a quarter of an hour or so, then served. Where turf forms the fuel and is burnt on the hearth, some of it is scraped up round the pot to keep up a gradual heat; by this plan the potatoes are both boiled and baked. Potatoes, Breakfast, Ame- rican.—Boil some small potatoes in their skins; the moment they are barely done, take them up and skin them. Have ready a pan of very hot lard, drop them in, and fry a rich brown; they want plenty of room, and fat enough to cover them in every part. Drain before tho fire, and serve at once with a sprinkling of pepper. Another way.—Put some mashod potatoes on small plates, pyramid form, each plate to hold enough for one person; season all over with salt and pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg; brush over with a beaten egg, and brown well all over at a quick fire ; put sprigs of fried parsley here and there, and dredge with coralline pepper. Another way.—Parboil some potatoes in their skins; set aside to cool after peeling; then fry a chopped onion in some very hot fat until it turns brown, and put in the potatoes after cutting645 PLAIN* VEGETABLE OOOKEftV. them in dice; a frying-pan should he used, with a small quantity of fat. Stir for a minute, then take the pan from the tire, and leave for a few minutes; the potatoes should he kept pale. Pour the fat away, sprinkle some chopped parsley over, first skim- ming out the onion, season well, and shake over the fire for a few seconds, and serve very hot, with cayenne and lemon juice. Potato Cakes. — Prepare as Balls, or as Croquettes below; if liked, add a little parsley, ham, or cheese to flavour; for serving with a joint they are better plain. Make into balls the size of a chestnut, then flatten them into round cakes, and finish^off as Balls ; or they can he rolled in crushed vermicelli. They are nicer laid in a frying basket, and cooked in plenty of fat. Drain and serve hot. Potato Chips.—(See Potatoes, Fried.) Potato Cones.—Prepare as for Balls or Croquettes ; shape them like tiny sugar loaves; rough the sur- face with a skewer, and brush with beaten egg; or a mixture of egg and milk answers. Bake them brown, and serve with meat or fish ; Qr add the ingredients above referred to in Potato Cakes, and serve with gravy or sauce. Potato Croquettes.—Required: potatoes, seasoning, butter, and egg as below. Cost, about 4d. Scoop the inside from some baked potatoes; put it in a saucepan with salt and pepper, half an ounce of butter, and the yolk of an egg to each pound. Beat well until the paste leaves the sides of the pan, and is firm, then take it from the fire, and spread it out to cool. Shape it into balLs the size of a Large walnut, or into cork shapes, and fry as directed for Potato Cakes. Potatoes, Curried.—Required : half a pint of rnilk and plain stock (meat or vegetable) mixed ; a good- sized onion, a teaspoonful of curry powder, two teaspoonfuls of rice-flour, seasoning as below, and some potatoes. Cost, about 4d. Chop and fry the onion a pale colour in a little dripping or butter ; add the stock, milk, and rice-flour; boil up, and simmer until the onion is done; cut some cold potatoes into dice, add them to the above with salt and a little lemon juice, toss until covered, but do not break them up, and servc.as soon as hot through and impregnated with the curry flavour. This is very simple and cheap. For a piquant curry, take some cold fried potatoes ; make a sauce with any brown stock (see Curry Sauce in Hot Sauces and remarks on Curries, page 242). Add any of the adjuncts therein mentioned—such as a spoonful of chutney or a little tamarind, &c. Another good way to use up potatoes thus, and any remnants of sauce at the same time, is to take a few spoonfuls of sauce, such as onion or celery, or mix them, and add stock to bring it to the proper consistence, then season to taste with curry, See., and heat the potatoes as above directed. The curry may be moist or dry, just according to taste; if the latter is preferred, the lid must be left off the pan until most of the moisture has evaporated, and the sauce just adheres to the potatoes. Potato Cutlets. — Shape the foregoing mixture for Croquettes into little cutlet shapes; and, when done, stick a bit of pipe macaroni in to re- present the bone; it should be brushed over with a morsel of glaze ; or, if this is not at hand, dip into warm butter, then roll in very fine raspings warmed in the oven ; some may be shaken over the cutlets also, if it is more con- venient to bake than to fry them. Potato-flour. — The farina of the potato, properly granulated and dried, is frequently sold as a substitute for arrowroot. If kept dry, it will re- main good for years. A tablespoonful of potato-flour mixed with two table- spoonfuls of cold water, stirred into a pint of boiling soup or sauce, and boiled for five minutes, will make the liquid of the consistence of thick cream.646 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Potato-flour may bo bought at about the same price as corn-flour, and is very useful for all sorts of purposes. (See the chapter on Cereals, &c.) Potatoes, Pried.—French kid- ney potatoes are considered best, but ordinary ones will answer; bo very careful to peel thinly, and after wash- ing-, dry in a clean cloth. Cut them in slices- across, as thin as a shilling; then throw them in very hot fat, or put them in a basket, moving it about in the fat that all may be uniformly cooked. When pale yellowish-brown and crisp, remove them; if left after this point is reached, they become too dark; drain before the fire, and sprinkle with salt. Serve hot with chops, steaks, &c. When cut into slices so thin that they are almost transparent, they are termed chips. When cut through into lengths of an inch or rather more, sometimes two inches, and rather thicker than a common match, they becomo straws ; and these take but a few seconds only: some little confusion arises from these being- called “ chips ” sometimes. (See Vege- tahle Slicer in Kitchen Utensils.) Another way. — Take potatoes which have been parboiled and left to cool; those may be sliced rather thicker than the others, and may either be fried as above, or turned about in a frying- pan -with a little hot drip- ping until hot through * and pale brown. These are good for breakfast. Another way (common- ly called-Devonshire way). — Chop up roughly some cold potatoes in a frying- pan, with a little hot bacon fat; stir, and season when browned a little. They take but a short time and are very nice. Goose fat is used by some; but bacon fat is most liked, and it is a good way of using- it up. Potato Klosse (a German dish).— Required: potatoes, butter, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, about 6d. or 7d. Scoop the floury part from five or six baked potatoes, until six ounces of potato flour have been obtained. Mix with this two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixture thorough];-, and form it into small balls. Drop these in boiling salt and water, and bo careful to do this with a metal spoon, and to dip it into boiling water each time it is used. Serve with soup. Another way.—Take some potato flour. Beat it until smooth with two ounces of butter which has been beaten to a. cream, and add two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, one ounce of grated Parmesan, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, the yolks of two and the white of one egg, to six ounces of the flour. Mould the kldsse, and boil them as above. Servo on a hot dish, with fried bread-crumbs sprinkled over them. Time to boil tho klosse, ten minutes. Potatoes, Maslied. — After boiling or steaming the potatoes, beat Fig. 109—Potato Masher.PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 047 out all lumps with a fork, then take a wooden spoon, and work them with it for a few minutes, adding a little salt and white pepper, and either a spoonful of milk ora little butter, oil, or dripping. The paste should be quite smooth, and after beating over the fire for a short time in a clean saucepan, until hot through, should be served in a hot dish. The sur face is generally roughed by drawing a fork across it a few times in contrary directions. If liked dry, add no fat; simply beat and smooth them. A potato masher is handy [see Kitchen Utensils) ; a modem form is shown on p. 646, and is very superior, as it takes the place of a sieve, and can be used in the preparation of all sorts of vegetables for purees, &.C., and is equally useful for fruit. Potatoes, Mashed and Browned, — These differ from Potatoes, Mollped, by being served in the dish they are browned in, and may be made softer in consequence, as directed below. They are light and delicate. Cook a couple of pounds of potatoes by steaming, or boiling, or baking in their skins; mash them, and the yolk of an egg, half a gill of hot milk,'seasoning to taste, and an ounce of butter. Beat hard; then beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in ; put the mixture into a greased baking dish, only three- parts fill it, mark the top across with a skewer, and bake in a sharp oven to a delicate brown* The addition of hot milk or cream to dishes of mashed potatoes is re- commended ; if cold milk be used, the flavour is not the same. Both to the above and to potatoes mashed, as in the preceding recipe, a few cooked onions may be added when their flavour is liked; or in the above, they may be put in alternate Layers in the dish— potatoes forming the top and bottom layers. Other vegetables can be simi- larly introduced. Potatoes, Moulded. — Re- quired : potatoes, butter, eggs, and seasoning, &c. Cost, about 8d. Bake some potatoes in their skins ; scoop out the interior while hot; to about a quart, add two to three ounces of butter or clarified fat, and two eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. Givo the whole a vigorous beating- for several minutes. The potatoes should be broken up with a fork, or passed through a sieve first of all. This is the foundation ; the additions that may ■ be made are well-nigh endless; a spoonful of grated cheese, with a pinch of curry powder, makes one pleasant variety; another is obtained from a few ounces of minced ham or bacon, cut up, with some herbs in powder, or herbs alone can be used; chopped parsley and a dash of thyme or mar- joram is generally agreeable. Some will like a few drops of good store sauce or ketchup. "Where strict economy is necessary, it is well to remember that a tablespoonful of cooked rice, sago, or tapioca will help to “bind” and save an egg. Then grease a dish or plain baking tin, and coat it -with bread-crumbs; fill it with the mixture, pressing it in firmly, and bake in a moderate oven until it will turn out; about twenty minutes or longer if the tin is very deep. For very dry, mealy potatoes, a little hot milk may be put inand some of the fat omitted if more agreeable. But in moulds of this description, care must be taken not lo make the mixture too moist. Potatoes, New, Boiled.—Take freshly-dug new potatoes. Wash them well, and rub off the skin with a flannel’ or. a coarse cloth. Throw them into boiling salted water, in which a sprig . of mint may be put if the flavour is not disliked, and let them simmer gently until they are quite tender. Pour off the liquid, and lot them stand by the side of the fire with a cloth oyer them until they are thoroughly dry. Put a slice of butter into a hot vegetable tureen, pile the potatoes over this, put moro on tho top, and servo very hot. Now potatoes should bo cooked before they liuvo been twenty-Universal cookery book, 0+8 four hours out of the ground. Although agreeable to the taste, they are by no means so digestible as fully-grown tubers. Time to boil, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to size. Kidney potatoes are the nicer, and aro more generally agreeable when fair-sized ; very tiny ones are watery and deficient in flavour. Excellent potatoes are sent over from Jersey and other places before English ones are • ready. Cost, from Id. to 2d. per pound as soon ns plentiful; but early in the season ns much as fid. per pound may bo paid. As they get larger, the skins cannot be rubbed, and must be scraped off. Good-sized ones may be steamed. Potatoes, New, Stewed in Butter.—Take new potatoes when they first come into season and are young and small. Kub oft' the skins with a flannel or coarse cloth, wash and dry thorn well, and put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter —four ounces will be enough for two to three pounds. Let them steam gently until they aro done enough, shaking the saucepan every two or three minutes, that they may be evenly cooked. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and serve very hot. They will take half an hour or more. If the flavour is diked, some chopped mint may be added, or a dash of tarragon and chervil, or some parsley, or a squeeze of lemon. This is a very good way of cooking new potatoes. Potato Pastry (or Crust).— This is useful and economical; it Answers for many purposes—such as covering plain pies, making into rolls, puffs, &e., with meat or fish inside, instead of pastry of the ordinary kind; , and it is generally found agreeable. It will, however, prove a failure unless good mealy potatoes be used, and it is necessary that they be cooked in their skins; sharp heat is also required for the cooking of the crust. Ao. 1 {Plain),—Weigh a pound^of the potato pulp after it is cooked; freo it from lumps, and beat well; add a raw egg, a little salt and pepper, and two ounces of butter or dripping. Then work in just as much dry, sifted flour as will make the mass stiff enough to roll out on a floured board; it must be left until cold before this can be done, or it will break. For a still plainer one, rub the fat into half a pound of flour, then add the potatoes, until the right consistence is reached. A"o. 2 (fitch). — l’nt a pound of potatoes in a bowl after mashing them; add the yolks of two eggs, and four ounces of dissolved butter; beat thoroughly, then sift in the flour, and set by for several hours before using; season with salt, white pepper, and a pinch of cayenne: herbs, or lemon rind, or grated nutmeg aro also admissible. When ready to bake, if for pie or puffs, brush over with the whites of the eggs. But potato crust is best fried. Sup- posing it to be used for small sausage rolls, or anything similar, roll it thinly, and enfold the crust well round the interior, which must bo of something previously cooked. Then drop into hot fat, and fry a good brown. The surface may be left plain, or marked with a fork. (Sec the chapter on Colp Meat and Sckac Cookkky. ) The crust may bo egged and crumbed with advantage before frying; but this treatment is quite optional, and for tlio plainest dishes can be dispensed with. Potato Puree.—Required : pota- toes, stock, butter or milk, and season- ing. Cost, about 3d. per pound. For a plain dish, cook and mash some mealy potatoos; to each pound add a tablespoonful of any plain white stock, nnd the same measure of milk, or a morsel of butter instead ; season, and stir in a saucepan until hot through ; do not place the pan on the fire, or the puree may burn ; then pile it lightly on a hot dish in the centre of eutlots, or as an accompaniment to meat of any sort. If to serve with fish, a little milk only should be used, and a few drops of anchovy or other fish essence added to the seasoning. The puree may bo garnished round the base with little triangular shapesPLAIN' VEGETABLE COOKERY. G49 of fried bread ; or any other vegetables may be used—tiny carrots or sprouts, or any that will contrast nicely. Potato Ribbons.—Wash and peel some good-sized potatoes; cut them into ribbons round and round, like peeling an apple; not too thinly, or they will break, and the strips should be as long as possible. They should be dried well before peeling. Then drop them into hot fat, and let them become a delicate brown; drain before serving, and sprinkle a little salt and cayenne or white pepper over. (See Potatoes, Fried.) Potato Rice.—Required: pota- toes, butter, milk, and seasoning. Cost, about 5<L Boil two pounds of potatoes—regents are best for the purpose—mash them with two ounces of butter and four tablespoonfuls of boiling milk, and season with pepper and salt. Put them into a large colander, and press them through this on to a hot dish, and, whilst doing so, shake the colander every minute or so, that the potatoes may fall lightly like rice. Serve very hot, with broiled steak or sausages. Potato Ring, or Border, Plain.—Prepare as for Balls or Croquettes above ; when cold, roll out on a board with the hand, to the thick- ness of a thin rolling-pin; join the ends neatly, and brush over with dripping, then bake brown, and serve with a mince of meat or fish in the centre. Potatoes, Savoury (a German recipe). — Required: potatoes, butter, or bacon, flour, stock, herbs, and other seasoning as below. Cost, about 6d. Half boil six or eight large potatoes, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stcwpan, or, if preferred, substitute two ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the butter. Add a minced onion, and let it stew until tender. Dredge a tablespoon ful of flour into the butter, and stir until it is smooth and brown; then pour in u* gradually as much boiling stock or water as will mako the sauce of the consistence of cream. Add a pinch of thyme and marjoram, a large table- spoonful of chopped parsley, some pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, a bay leaf, or any other flavouring. Let the sauce simmer a few minutes, put in the sliced potatoes, and when they are tender without being broken, turn the whole upon a dish, and serve very hot. If liked, tho butter and flour may be kept from browning, and a little milk may be used to thin the sauce. Potatoes, Scalloped.— Mash some potatoes in the usual way with butter and a little hot milk (see page 646). Butter some scallop-shells or patty-pans, fill them with the mashed potatoes, make them smooth on the top, and then draw the back of a fork over them. Sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs on the top, and lay small pieces of butter here and there upon them. , Put the potatoes in a Dutch oven before the fire till they are brightly browned, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin in the scallop- shells. Time, about a quarter of an hour to brown the potatoes. A small quantity of dried fish— haddock, bloater, &c.-—makes a savoury dish; it should be beaten in well with the potatoes; or any of the mixtures given under Potatoes, Moulded, may be scalloped. Cost variable—about 3d. per pound inclusive. Potatoes, Steamed. — Have ready a large saucepan of water, suited* as for boiling ; see that the steamer fits the pan, and the lid the steamer. Take a teaspoonful of salt for two to three pounds of potatoes, and shake it over as they are put in the steamer. Size them, or put the largest at the bottom ; cover, and lot the water boil fast all tho time; anything may bo boiled in tho water that will not * When a pudding is boiled underneath, t lie snlt must ho omitted, unless it be of a savour)' kind; tlien u little salt docs no harm.650 UNIVERSAL COOKERV ROOK. discolour tho potatoes. When done, give the steamer a shake ; set it on a plate near the fire, and replace the lid by a cloth,'and serve in a few minutes. They will take rather longer than boiled potatoes, and may be pooled or not; in the latter case, they are better finished off by baking. About the superiority of steamed over boiled potatoes, there is some difference of opinion. Some say that only a good potato is satisfactory when steamed. Certainly, a good one shows better results after steaming, and naturally so ; but our experience is that a potato of inferior quality is likely to be im- proved by stoaming, simply because the salts are better preserved, and it is likely to bo less watery. But apart from these considerations, there aro other decided advantages : viz., less watching is required; and in the event of the potatoes being left a trifle too long, they will not be spoiled, because, if they should break, the water cannot reach them. Again, the use of a steamor reduces the number of utensils (if something be boiled below)—a great consideration, if space is limited and fuel dear. Potato Straws.—(See Potatoes, Fried.) Potato, Sweet.—After the intro- duction of the potato into this country it used to be confounded with this plant, which it resembled, and from which it received its name. It is still cultivated to a certain extent in Spain and the South of France, and is largely eaten in tropical America. It may bo employed as a substitute for ordinary potatoes; and can also be served as a substitute for yams, and cooked in the same way. Pumpkin.—This is the fruit of a plant of the same order as the squash and vegetable marrow; it grows some- times to a great size. Pumpkins can be used in the same way as Vege- table Marrow. (See also Pumpkin Pie and Pumpkin Pudding.) The following is a popular American dish. Pumpkin, Baked.—Take a nice rich pumpkin ; pare and seed it; slice it a quarter of an inch thick, after cutting it in four or eight pieces; let them lie in cold water with a little salt for a time, then dry them, and place them in a double layer in a large, shallow baking-dish, with only just water enough to keep them from burning. Cook long, and at a gentle heat; a sharp oven will spoil the dish. Tho pieces should be very tender, and the moisture dried up. Season with salt and pepper, and spread both sides with butter. Serve with bread and butter for tea or any other meal. Cost uncertain, but on an average about the same as vegetable marrows, in proportion to size. Purslaue. — This is a common plant, used as a pot herb, and in salads; it is considered very cooling and wholesome, but is much less in demand now than formerly. Radishes.—These have a pun- gent taste ; they are much nicer when young and quickly grown. They are generally cheap, and are a popular relish with bread and butter. In preparing them for table, they should be washed, and tho tops cut off short; the radishes should he freed from any fibrous growth by light scraping; turnip radishes may be made more digestible by peeling them very thinly when fully grown. Radishes enter into many salads and savoury dishes, as their pronounced flavour imparts zest to more insipid edibles. They aro very useful, too, for garnishing pur- poses ; when used whole, they should be as even in size as possible. Cost, about Id. per bunch on an average. Radislies, Grated.—The con- sumption of radishes in tho raw state is often followed by extreme dis- comfort; if grated, there is less fear of this, for it has been proved that a good deal depends upon perfect masti- cation. After washing and scraping, tho tops should be removed, and the younger thoy are tho nicer. A little pile'of grated radishes is a nice relish651 PLA1X VEGETABLE COOKERY. with bread and cheese or butter, or may bo used in salads, sandwiches, and other dishes, as well as in hot sauces, such as plain molted butter, or in vegetable purees, being especially use- ful for giving piquancy to such as may be termed insipid. A fow minutes suffice for the cooking. Radishes, Steamed or Boiled.—Cook these like turnips, giving them about twenty minutes for average-sized turnip radishes. They should be served with white sauce or melted butter, and are nice with boiled meat, or may bo served separately. .Many persons who cannot digest raw radishes (even grated) will experience no inconvenience from this dish. Rosemary. -— This is a pretty garden shrub, more used abroad than here, but frequently employed for flavouring bird. Country-made pigs’ puddings are often seasoned with it. Saffron. -Saffron is wholesome, and lias medicinal as well as culinary uses. It is useful as a colouring agent, and enters into most of the vegetable yellow colourings sold by grocers and chemists. In the west of England cakes are coloured with saffron. There is a spurious saffron which should bo avoided; and it is largely adulterated. Various uses are detailed in recipes; tee Rice and Macaiioxi. Sage. — T his is much used in cookery, especially of a homely kind; and for vegetarian savouries it is of especial value; green sage is best known, but there are other varieties. In addition to its pleasant flavour, sage has the merit of wholesomeness. For strong kinds of fish, a little added to the gravy, or boiling liquor, will help to destroy any unpleasant flavour due to muddy water and other causes. (See recipes for the various kinds of fresh-water fish.) Sage is used in several dishes in the present chapter; tee also Ixdex. Salsify.—This is the root of a plant called also the oyster plant and purple goat’s beard. It is excellent when cooked, and less known than it deserves to bo ; it is said to possess stimulating properties, and nmy bo cooked in various ways. It must always bo well done to make it tender, and to remove a certain bitter flavour which otherwise lingers about it; this is very pronounced in the raw state. The leaves should be fresh, and the roots firm and black. To prepare the roots, cut off the ends, and scrape off the outer rind until the flesh is reached; this resembles a parsnip somewhat in colour and general appearance. Rub them with lemon juice or vinegar, and leavo them in cold water until ready to cook them; or put a tablespoonful of lemon juice in each pint of water. They are better if left in the water for an hour, and will impart to it a tinge of reddish brown. Exposure to the air in scraping, or after cooking, turns them brown. Salsify roots, if left in the ground, will send up stout, green shoots in the spring; these can be cooked like asparagus; they are very good eating, and a trial is recom- mended with confidence. Cost, un- certain ; about 6d. to 8d. per bundle. Salsify, Boiled.—Cut the roots into even-sized pieces, after preparing them as directed above; they may bo from three to four inches long, or smaller or larger, as preferred. Put them into boiling water with a littlo salt and a morsel of butter; a few drops of lemon juice are an improve- ment. Give them about an hour; if large, they may want an hour and a half; a skewer will penetrate them easily when done. Then drain, and dish on toast, and send molted butter or white sauce to table with them. Salsifies are very good re-drossed ; the remains of boiled ones mny bo served in many ways. Sauer Kraut.—This preparation is largely used throughout the northern parts of Europe, and especially in Germany, as an accompaniment to smoked meats, beef, &c. Tho taste for this delicacy is certainly an ac- quired ono, but it is a very general652 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOR. one in some districts. Sauer kraut is considered an excellent antiscorbutic. Take large well-grown cabbages with line white hearts. Remove the outer leaves and stalks, and shred tho cab- bages very finely. Cover the bottom of a large pan or tub with cabbage leaves. Throw in the cabbage as it is shredded, and sprinkle salt evenly upon the layers. One handful of salt will be amply sufficient for a large pan- ful of cabbage; too much salt will prevent fermentation. Keep pressing the cabbage down closely as it is thrown in. When tho vessel is quite full, sprinkle a little salt over the top, and cover it first with cabbage leaves and then with a linen cloth; lay a wooden cover over all, and on this put a heavy weight. Keep tho pan in a warm cellar till fermentation has begun. This may be known by small white globules forming on the surface. When tho moisture dries in a crust over tho top the kraut is ready for use. It should be kept in a cool place till wanted. Once a week the cabbage leaves should either be renewed or washed, and the linen cloth should be washed in cold water and replaced. Some persons put carraway seeds and juniper berries amongst the layers, and think the kraut is improved by the addition. If, owing to any cause, after waiting two or three days there is no sign of fermentation, a cold, weak brine of salt and water should be poured over. The cabbages will be all tho better if they are allowed to lie in a cool corner for several days before being used. Time, three weeks to prepare the kraut. It will keep for a year. Sauer Kraut, to Cook.—Lay a good-sized piece of butter in a sauce- pan and let it melt. Put in half the saner kraut, and lay on this the meat to be made ready with it: either ham or bacon smoked and pared, pork, or any sort of sausage. Over all place the other half of tho kraut, pour in a glassful of white wine, and add a little water occasionally to moisten it. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the con- tents stew gently till the sutler kraut is soft and yellow. When cooked enough, take out the meat. Dredge in a table- spoonful of flour, let the kraut stew half an hour longer, then place the meat again in the saucepan to get quite hot. Stir the kraut now and then with a wooden spoon, and take care that it docs not burn. What is left over of the sauer kraut is good warmed up on the following day or a day or two after; it may be served with some other meat. As an accom- paniment to smoked meats, roast pork, sausages, &c., sauer kraut may be prepared in tho way just described, but without the meat; if so, stir in a thickening of flour and butter before sending to table. It is to be observed that sauer kraut can hardly be cooked too much. It requires at first from two and a half to three hours’ stewing. Cost, variable, according to the kind of meat, &c., and tho proportions used. Scorzonera.—The roots of this plant are sugary and well flavoured. The coarse outer rind should be re- moved, and the roots soaked in cold water for a few hours to extract any bitterness. They can be boiled like parsnips, or treated like salsify; a favourite way of cooking them, with many, is to parboil, and egg and bread- crumb, and fry a good brown. Cost, very uncertain. In Germany, where this root is thought more of than in England, a little flour is added to the cold water used for the soaking ; the final soaking medium being milk or milk and water. Various kinds of sauces of the white class are used, in which to dish up the roots—the richer ones being reserved for separate-course dishes. Scotch Kale.—This is a nice vegetable; it goes by various names ; t( curly greens ” is one, but it receives misleading titlcs'in some localities. It is generally chenp, about Id. to 2d. per pound. The kale should bo washed in salt and water, and may be boiled like Turnip Tops, or cooked spinach.PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. G53 fashion, so far as the after-treatment goes, by making it into purees; it always wants boiling in salted water until done. Winter greens generally are cooked in the same way ; lots of water, well salted, will always preserve the colour; but if tough or discoloured to start with, a pinch of borax or soda does no harm. For all the purees, when white sauce or anything that detracts from the colour is used, add a few drops of green colouring. When in first-rate condition and well cooked, it is difficult to find a nicer vegetable than this. (See recipes under Cabbage, Lettuce, &e.) Sea-Beet.—This grows on many parts of our coasts. It belongs to the same natural family as the spinach, and is probably the original form of the cultivated beet. The leaves are large, and resemble spinach in flavour when boiled. In many parts of Ireland the leaves are gathered in succession as they grow, and eaten by the poor as food. The richer the soil, the better the flavour of the leaves. Sea-Kale.—This is a plant very much like asparagus, and is generally highly esteemed. It takes its name from its being found wild in districts near the sea. It is the blanching process that gives the delicate character to this plant, for in the unblanched state it is worthless; as it is the action of light that imparts the strong and bitter taste, as well as the green and reddish-purple colouring. Conse- quently, after it is cut, sea-kale should be kept in a dark place until wanted. If exposed in an open situation it will acquire a decided tinge, that injures colour and flavour in the course of two or three days. Cost, very variable; sometimes less than Is. per basket, but often from Is. Gd. to 2s., or more if scarce. .Sea-kale is amongst the earliest of vegetables. When fresh, it is white and crisp to the touch ; when dark and limp, it is shale. Sea-kale is said to be one of the few plants improved by forcing; and fqrce4 shoots at mid- winter itro crisper and better in flavour than the naturally-grown ones of April and May. Sea-Kale, Boiled.—This wants nico washing and brushing ; any worm- eaten and black portions of the roots must be cut out, and it is some little trouble to free it from all the adhering grit. The object in cooking should be to retain the delicate flavour and colour as much as possiblo. In this form, it is delicate and digestible, and most persons may safely eat it. It should be tied up in little bundles, and left in cold water after washing, then put on to boil in water lightly salted, and with a few drops of lemon juice in; some competent authorities advise that the steam be allowed to escape, by putting the lid only half over the saucepan. Time, from a quarter of an hour for very young fresh kale to half an hour or more for older. Drain thoroughly, and serve on toast, with a good white sauce in a boat; some prefer it without sauce, but if two dishes are served, sauce may be poured over one of them. If in that condition that may be de- scribed as very stale, the water should be changed when half done, and fr om forty to fifty minutes must be given. In dishing, put the heads all one way, and draw off the tape with which it is tied very carefully. This (and all vegetables of a similar kind) wants well draining, and must be served hot. Shalot .—-The shalot, or eschalot, is a kind of onion—the mildest culti- vated—used for seasoning soups and made dishes, and for flavouring sauces, gravies, and salads. The shalot has a bulbous root, made up of a number of smaller bulbs, called cloves. It ought to be taken up in the autumn, and bo hung in nets in a cool airy place. "When properly dried, it will keep till spring. It is stronger in taste than tho onion, but does not leave so strong an odour on tho palate, and for this reason is often employed instead of tho onion, both in cooking and for eating in a raw state. Shalots can be added to melted butter or white sauce,G54 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. and served with hoilcd meats, &c.; or purees and other dishes may ho made in the same way ns if using- onions. The water should be changed to make them milder; lemon rind is sometimes used with shalots for sauces, &c.; and horse-radish is thought by some to bo an improvement to a thick sauce of shalots made with milk in the ordinary way : this is served with tripe in some parts, and to further increase its piquancy, garlic is employed. The use of shalots will be seen more fully by referring to Pickles, Seasonings, and Salads. Skirret. — This is .a perennial plant, a native of China, known in this country since 1543. The root is com- posed of fleshy tubers about the size of the little finger, and joined together at the crown or head. They used to bo much estoemed in cookery. In the northern districts of Scotland the plant is cultivated under the name of “crum- inock.” The tubers, when boiled, aro served with butter. Skirrets come the nearest to parsnips of any of the es- culent roots, both for flavour and nu- tritive quality. They are rather sweeter than the parsnip, and therefore to some palates are not altogether so agreeable. Soja.—This is a new vegetable, a sort of pea imported from China; it has received favourable notice in France, and is said to be very digestible and palatable. It is similar to tho flageolet bean, and, being rich in oil and poor in starch, is recommended to diabetic patients by the modical pro- fession. So far, its high price has hindered its adoption; and attempts at cultivation have not beon marked with great success. In referring to soja as a now vegetable, wo mean simply that it has only recently been introduced as a vegetable ; it is well known as the basis of Chinese Soy. Sorrel.—This is an acid-leaved root, which is used largely on tho Continent for soups, salads, and sauces, and as an accompaniment to meat. Where the taste for it has been acquired, it is considered very plea- sant ; of its wholesomcncss there is no doubt. When sorrel alone is thought too acid, it is mixed with spinach or dandelion. Sorrel grows wild, and can be had for the plucking; but as the flavour of tho cultivated is superior to that of the wild sorrel, every garden should contain a few plants. Sorrel is just now ono of the “fashionable” vegetables, and isbeingsoldin London in tins at a shilling each. This is, no doubt, imported, and may lead to the further cultivation of the plant in England. Sorrel, to Cook.—Like spinach,, sorrel needs very careful washing; it is gritty, and must be rinsed in several waters, and left under a running tap. for a time. The small, fine leaves can. be left whole; but tho thick mid-rib. should be torn from tho large leaves. “Giant” sorrel may be torn into. shreds with advantage, after removing, the rib. Ono of the best of the many ways of dressing sorrel is to draw it down in butter; by many it is thought to be the best. After washing and draining, the sorrel is put into a stew- pan with no other moisture than that which clings about it, with an ounce, of butter to each quart. When re- duced (and it reduces a good deal), and tender, somo flour should be dredged in, the mass being stirred the while; it is then to be rubbed through a sieve, ro-heated, and seasoned slightly ; a few drops of lemon juice and a pinch of sugar are sometimes added. Serve like any other green puree of the same kind. Spinach.—This vegetable is agreeable in taste, and very whole- some, but there is not much real nourishment in it, owing to the large proportion of water. It needs thorough washing; this is best done by having two pails of water; after washing in the first it should be taken out with the hand, and put into tho second pail, tho -water being changed a time or two. It should bo drained on a sieve for a moment, not pressed in a cloth, as it655 PLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. is delicate, and requires careful hand- ling. It is usually boiled and served as a puree; the general additions being cream, butter, or gravy. For the sake of its intenso green colour, spinach is very useful for garnishing purposes When scarce and dear-, turnip tops, beetroot tops, nettles, and dandelion leaves are often served as substitutes, or can bo mixed with the spinach. Cost, on an average, 2d. or 3d. per pound, but may reach 4d. or 6d. (See Dressed Yegi-taiii.ks for Purees.) Spinach, Boiled. — This is a common Euglish method. Take a good pailful (for a dish) of young, freshly gathered spinach; take away the stalks, and after washing as above described, give a minute for the grit to settle at the bottom of the pail, drain, and put the spinach in a sauce- pan, with no other moisture than that which clings about it; add a sprinkling of salt, and boil until tender, from ten to fifteen minutes; then drain, and press well in a colander, chop it up, and put it in a clean, dry saucepan, with an ounce of butter, and a little salt and pepper; stir for a few minutes, then press it in a hot dish, and garnish with croutons. Another way.—Add half a pint of boiling water and a teaspoonful of salt to a good-sized saucepanful of spinach; say one of a gallon capacity ; boil and finish off as directed above. Or, for quite a plain dish, nothing need be added; the spinach may be dished as soon as pressed. ■ Another way.—Use plenty of boiling water, just as if boiling cabbage; when done, strain and press, and finish off by either of the foregoing I methods. As to the best way of cook- ing spinach, there is a great difference of opinion. Some cooks assert that the first method is the only correct one; others declare that the flavour is too strong unless plenty of water be used, as in the last method; again, many very good judges are of opinion that there is practically no difference in the flavour of the spinach, whether water is added or not; and that very few could detect any difference. Where so many disagree, it is, perhaps, better not to attempt to decide; the various methods are easily tried, and our readers can form their own opinion as to their relative merits. (See next chapter.) Spinach and Rice. — Almost any aish of rice eats well with spinach. For a maiyre dish, a selection can be made from those dishes given under Rice, made from vegetable stock, &c.; while those who desire rice, plus animal j uices, may make trial of such dishes as most commend themselves to their notice, either by virtue of their flavour or their cost. We may remark that most people will like any into which tomatoes enter; these with slight flavourings of ham, choose, or curry, are also suitable for combination with spinach. Rice Sauce is also very nice with a dish of spinach and hard-boiled eggs. Spinach with Eggs (American method).—Required ; spinach, eggs, seasoning, &c., as below7. Cost, about lOd. to Is. After boiling and pressing the spinach, put it back w7ith a little butter, pepper and sugar; beat until hot, then turn it into the dish, and cover with an egg dressing, made by mixing the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, an ounce of dissolved butter, a dessertspoonful of cream, and ono of lemon juice. Spread this smoothly over the vegetable, and garnish with the whites of tho eggs cut into rings. These quantities are enough for a good-sized dish of spinach. This is a nice dish for serving separately. Squash.—Tho squash is of the gourd family ; there are two sorts, tho summer squash, or cymbling, and tho winter squash ; the last named takes longer to cook. When very tender, squash need not bo pared; and when necessary to pure it, care should bo taken to remove nothing but the hard, outer rind. The seeds should be656 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. removed, and tho vegetable cut into quarters, or a greater number of pieces, according to size. Winter squash is often mashed; the recipes under Vegetable Marrow and Turnips can he followed ; squash can also be used in the same way as pumpkin, for pies and puddings, but it is not so rich in flavour. Cost uncertain, but not expensive generally. Succotash. — This is imported from America; it is a mixture of corn and beans; directions for use will be found on the tins. It is a very whole- some preparation, and furnishes a very welcome change from ordinary dishes of vegetables as served in England. (See Succotash Soup and Succotash Salad, also Lima Beans.) Cost, about lOd. for a tin of nearly two pounds Succotash, Curried. - This is a good dish, not much trouble or cost. Required : a tin of succotash, a table- spoonful of cooked apple or tomato pulp, three or four times as much cookod onion, a toaspoonful each of curry paste and powder, half an ounce ef corn-flour, milk, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. Id. Turn tlie succotash into a saucepan with the apple, onions, and curry; the latter mixed with milk, stock, or water to a paste ; add the corn-flour, stir to the boil, and simmer until the flavours are well blendod. The onions may be fried for a more savoury dish. Season, and add a little vinegar or lemon juice. Servo with or without rice. Any of tho adjuncts added to meat and other curries may be introduced, and butter or cream is an improvement. A cooked carrot is thought by some to be the making of this dish. A little cooked celery also goes well with it. Summer and Winter Sa- voury.—These herbs arc used for seasoning purposes, and possess a very pleasant tasto and aroma. They should be gathered in July and August, and dried for winter use. Tho winter savoury has a more woody stalk ; both kinds are common in kitchen gardens. Mixed herbs and aromatic seasoning mixtures generally contain one of these. Tarragon.—This is closely allied to the well-known aromatic plants— common wormwood and southern wood; but, unlike those, its leaves are divided. Its uses are similar to those of chervil; the two are often combined in the same dish. Tarragon vinegar is very use- ful ('sec the chapter on Seasonings). “ Shredded tarragon ” is a term fre- quently used in all works on cookery ; it refers to the leaves cut into strips with scissors; they should not be used whole. Tarragon is a dangerous tool in the hands of an unskilful cook, owing to its strong flavour ; but judi- ciously employed, it is valuable. Many flavoured butters and cold sauces are greatly improved by it, and all the ordinary methods of utilising it are explained in pur recipes. Cost, a few pence per bunch on an average; never very cheap so far as its first cost, but is economical in use owing to the little required. Thyme.—This is one of our com- monest herbs, but an extremely useful ono ; its odour and taste are strong, pungent, and aromatic. Three varieties are used in cookery—viz., common thyme, and orange and lemon thyme ; orange thyme is ready for drying in June and July ; the others are a little later. It must be borne in mind that an overdose of this plant is disagree- able, as it imparts bitterness to the dish; when dried, double the quantity is wanted; fresh thyme, like all other herbs, is the nicer. Cost, about Id. per small bunch. Tomato. — The virtues of the tomato, or love apple, are now fully recognised both in the raw and cooked condition. It has been said that Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz has made chops and tomato sauce immortal; but only within recent years have we found out that tomatoes arc excellent and whole- some in almost any way. To stuff a tomato, is, in the opinion of Sir Henry Thompson, mischievous meddling car- ried to the highest pitch; and simplePLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 657 cookery is alone admissible. To a great extent, we agree with him ; but we cannot forget that much deponds upon the skilful admixture of the several ingredients, and that those who serve tomatoes almost daily at their tables in some form or otherare generally glad of a new method. Indeed, we think the popularity of the tomato is due in no small degree to the changes that can be rung upon the modes of serving it. Still, it has a very distinct and in- dependent flavour of its own, which needs neither enhancement nor di- minution, and the delicious sub-acid must not be destroyed by spices and herbs—only developed. There are many varieties of the tomato; the best kinds have fine, smooth skins. English-grown ones, when just ripe, are very inviting in appearance, the red ones being of a very beautiful colour. For the purpose of loosening the skins of tomatoes for peeling, boiling water is recommended; but its use should be discouraged; if properly ripe, the peel can be removed without any soaking. For a great number of dishes of the ordinary class, it is not necessary to remove the peel; but for high-class dishes of cold dressed tomatoes it is an improvement. Then the pips: it is common to meet with recipes, no matter how plain the dish, in which the words “ throw away the pips ” occur. Here discretion is wanted; for one cannot take away the pips without a good deal of the pulp adhering; when they are removed, therefore, by way of making room for stuffing, or simply from choice, the pulp should be sieved, that only the seeds may be wasted. Another point to be borne in mind is the fact that the cooking should never be prolonged further than necessary ; beyond this the tomato suffers in flavour. Cost, about 2d. fo 4d. per pound for im- ported, and Gd. to Is. for English- grown tomatoes, except early in the season. Of the imported, the red plum tomatoes are very good. Of the round varieties, the small ones are best for salads and garnishing purposes; and for ordinary dishes, the medium size are usually better than very large ones. Tomatoes, to Bottle.—This is an American method. Some wide- necked jars are to be made hot, by letting them lie in boiling water, or as nearly boiling as possible, then drain them when ready to fill. Take ripe tomatoes, equal in size, and scald them to loosen the skins ; take them off, and with the scalding water drain off any liquor that will run easily from the tomatoes without pressure. Put them in a jam kettle, and stir with a wooden spoon until they boil; then give them a good boil for ten or fifteen minutes: pour into the jars while boiling, and finish off in either of the following ways, but do not lose an instant, and be sure to fill to such an extent that the juice runs over; the jars should be set upon plates. The first and best way is to have jars with “grooved” necks and metal tops ; screw the tops on tightly, and as the contents cool, give another screw now and then, but before putting on the covers wipe the necks of the jars. When cold, wipe all the jars clean, and dry them, then put them in the coolest, driest, and very darkest place in the house. To save time, th'o tomatoes may be bottled thus without skinning; if not even-sized, the large ones should be broken up. Boil rather longer than above directed, and pour off a little of the moisture before filling the jars. The next way to finish off the bottles is to cork and wax them, and if this is done, the corks should bo soaked for a time in some of the boiling liquor from the fruit. Under the name of the “Climax” Bottle, a glass jar has boon specially manufactured which is admirably adapted for the preservation of toma- toes. It has an air-tight glass cap, the contents thus come in contact with the glass only; thoro is no trouble of corking, sealing down, or bladdoring; a great saving of timo is thereby effected. A strong glass top fits on the wide, open mouth, and presses658 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. upon an elastic Land, which rests upon a rim outside the hottle mouth. Thb metal screw ring then fits over this glass top, and presses it hard down upon the elastic-covered ring, thus making the jar absolutely air-tight, without wax or bladder. To prepare the tomatoes for these bottles is very simple, and either of the following methods may *be adopted. Put the fruit in whole and unskinned, and cook in a pot of water over the fire until the tomatoes look tendor; the bottles must bo wrapped round with hay or old lags,' and they must be raised from the bottom of the boiling-pot by means of a trivet on legs, or a meat dish set upon a weight, or some other device; a baking-sheet answers the same purpose, if raised by means of four pieces of wood at the corners. In this mode, the glass stoppers must be provided with a vent hole for the escape of the steam (these cost a trifle more per ' dozen). When done, the holes are filled up with bits of cork (sent with the bottles), and want a spot of wax on each. They can cool in the water or on a board; the first is the better way, and there is no foar of the bottles cracking. The next plan is to cook the to- matoes as directed above, first mode, or bake them in a jar in the oven; in either case, drain off some of the watery liquid. Fill the jars while hot (tho jars being lioatod first), and screw down. When cold, try if they can bo screwed a little tighter. For this way, stoppers without vent holes answer. The rubbers can bo renewed when worn. Tomatoes, to Preserve in B cine (Italian Method). — Choose sound, ripe fruit: wipe it with a cloth, and reject any broken or over-ripe. Take the stalks off. but do not skin. Make a brine by boiling a tablespoonful of salt in half a gallon of water until reduced to two-thirds the quantity. Skim a few times. Put the fruit in dry jars, pour the brine over, and put something in the necks to prevent floating; small plates or saucers arc useful; no metal will answer. When cold, cork and wax the jai'S, or tie down with bladder. This can be used like fresh fruit, if rinsed and wiped, and the skins removed. It answers for soups, sauces, &c. It is a good plan to soak it, and for all dishes less salt will be wanted. Tomatoes, Baked. — Take the green stalks from some tomatoes, ripe, and even in size ; allow two ounces of butter or clarified fat for eight medium- sized ones; put it in little bits about them, and cook in a moderate oven from twenty minutes upwards. Serve with roast meat, &c. If split through, cook tho cut side up. Tomatoes may be sliced for baking if large; put them in a single layer on a baking tin, first groasing it; brush them over with butter or dripping, and dredge with , salt and pepper; and if they are not fully ripe, a pinch of sugar. Give them from seven to ton minutes, and serve hot. When eaten as a separate course, add a little stock or gravy to tho liquor in the pan, and boil it up, then pour it over the tomatoes. When eaten with meat, &c., just pour the liquor over them as it is. Cost, about fid. per pound when in full season. Another way.—Put a little mustard with the seasoning named above, with any herbs that may be preferred; use it for halved or sliced tomatoes, and cook as directed. Cayenne pepper or grated nutmeg, a suspicion of either, may also be uddod ; and a finely-minced onion, distributed over half a dozen tomatoes, give additional piquancy. A little lemon juice, squeezed over just before serving, will develop the flavour to perfection. Tomatoes, Baked, with Onions.— Required : a pound of tomatoes, the same weight of Spanish onions, four ounces of cheese, reason- ing, &c. us below. Cost, about lOd. to Is. Bake the tomatoes after wiping and cutting them in halves (see above); bake or fry the onions, and chop themPLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 659 up. Put tho tomatoes, cut side up, on a dish for serving; cover eacli half with a thin slice of cheese, and put some onions on tho top ; season nicely, then spread some bread-crumbs over; these must be browned in tho oven or fried (see BitEAn). Grate a little cheese over, and serve hot. Another way.—Use half the quantity of onions given above, then put some small whole ones about the dish; they are nicest fried or stewed. Another way. — Dish each half tomato on a little round of hot, buttered toast, or fried bread, and use onion sauce in place of onions. These dishes are tasty, and when tomatoes are in full season, at three or four pence per pound, are very cheap. Tomato Conserve. — This is one of the most useful forms of preserved tomatoes, as it is simply pulp without skins and seeds, and is un- flavoured ; therefore, it is practically the same as the pulp of the fresh fruit. It is handy for sauce, purees, and other purposes to which tomatoes in tho fresh state can be applied, and can be flavoured as required. The price varies considerably, as does the quality ; about 6d. per half-pint tin is an average price. Conserve in bottles is a little dearer. French conserve is considered good, so is the Italian. When English is bought, it should bear the name of the manufacturer or importer. Very low-priced stuff, bearing no name, should be regarded with suspicion, or is better avoided; for it i3 probably not pure tomatoes at all; or else a small proportion of tomato pulp is mixed with that of some other vegetable, coloured to resemble the genuine article. The difference in tho price of various samples, allowing for all possible variation in the quality of the fruit, is sufficient to justify this impression. This will not keep long, and as soon as a tin is opened it should be turned out into a jar or bottle for use, and kept in a cool place. It will be good for a few days in cold weather, but soon “turns” in warm weather. (See Tomato Catsup and Tomato Store Sauce in a later chapter on Pickles, &c.) Tomatoes a la Diable.—Slice, coat with butter, a little mustard, and cayenne and black pepper, then grill, or bake sharply. Tomatoes, Fried,—Unless to- matoes are coated and fried as directed under Dressed Vegetables, they arc better whole than cut, and should be rather small. The frying medium may be oil, buttei, or clarified fat, or bacon fat used after bacon has been frieth; it must be quite hot, and only a little is needed, the tomatoes being turned about with a wooden spoon or skewer until done. Take care not to use a fork, or the juice will escape; they must not be over-ripe or bruised, for the same reason. In ten minutes or thereabouts they will be ready. Supposing a dish of fried bacon to bo ready for breakfast; by frying tomatoes in the fat, it becomes more wholesoiVio as well.as more economical, especially if some bread be fr ied in tho same fat and dished with the rest. Cost, about Gd. per pound. Tomatoes, Grilled. — These should be small, ripe, and whole, then coated with any fat described above, and grilled over a clear fire, on a greased gridiron, for five to ten minutes. If cooked in a Dutch oven before the fire, i.c. broiled, they are almost as good, and less trouble. They may also be cooked in the baking tin before the fire while a joint is roast- ing ; the}’ should be put at the coiner, that tho fat may not drop on them ; in this way they are generally called “roasted tomatoes.” Cost, as above. Tomatoes, Grilled, Ameri- can. — Cut thin slices, coat with butter, mustard, and a pinch of salt and sugar, and grill in the usual way. Tomato Puree.—A very cheap puree may be had from tinned tomatoes. Put the contents of a quart tin in aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 660 lined saucepan, with half an ounce of butter, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar. Cover, and simmer slowly; then, either take away the loose skins and beat the rest up to pulp, adding a little thickening, or, what is better, rub it through a colander or coarse hair sieve. The thickening may be flour or corn-flour, mixed with water or stock to a paste. For better pur6es, see the next chapter. If liked, add a little cooked carrot. Cost, about 8d. When very liquid, evaporate by quick boiling. Tomato Sauce.—-(See Sauces.) Tomato Soup.—(See Sours.) Tomatoes, Steamed.—Choose small tomatoes; cook in a single layer in a potato steamer, turning them once; they will take from ten to twenty minutes, and may be served with meat or fish. If brushed with butter the appearance is improved. Cost, as above. Tomatoes, Stewed.—Slice as many tomatoes as may be wanted, after taking off the stalks, and peeling them if liked. For a pound, allow a couple of ounces of butter, with a little seasoning. Cover, and cook softly in an enamelled saucepan until done— about twenty minutes. If more con- venient, cook the tomatoes thus in a covered jar or dish in a moderate oven. For any dish of this sort, uso a wooden spoon, or an enamelled one, in pre- ference to iron. For a cheaper dish, use dripping. Another way. — After melting the butter at starting, add an ounce of flour; stir until smooth, then put in a gill of plain stock or water. This will do for two pounds of tomatoes. Finish as directed above. Small tomatoes can be stewed whole. Tomatoes, Tinned.' — The quality of these varies greatly; the best and most expensive being the whole tomatoes in upright tins, im- ported from Franco; these are perfect in colour and flavour. Then there are the so-called whole ones, in the ordinary tins of a quart or so each, but, as a rule, they are more broken than whole. Noxt come the tins of the same size ; about od. or 6d. being the average price. These are broken very much; but they are extremely useful for soups, purees, sauce, &c., when further boiling is necessary, and the ingredients are sieved; in such cases, of course, it would be folly to give the increased prico for the whole fruit. But there is a vast difference even in those; some brands arc very pale and watery, and comparatively flavourless; others are of good flavour, consistence, and colour. Almost every grocer’s shop contains a choice of brands, and when one is found to be satisfactory, note should be made of it. In our recipes, when “ a tin of tomatoes ” is mentioned, one of the latter class, of the ordinary size (about a quart) is intended. In dealing with the whole tomatoes, the liquor must be drained off, and the fruit allowed to slide out on to a plate; the thing is to avoid breaking it. For hot dishes, it must be gradually heated (as it is already cooked), either in the oven or before the fire, with a little butter; or it may be simmered in gravy or stock; or heated in a potato steamer. Then there are certain preparations called “ tomato pur6e,” “ stewed ” or “evaporated tomatoes;” the leading feature being their freedom from skin, pips, and hard cores; some are flavoured a little, others are plain. These range in price from 8d. to 9d. per tin, some- what larger than tho ordinary size, and are very useful for the quick prepara- tion of soups and stews ; or they may be heated and turned into a vegetable dish, and served with meat. Most of these hail from America; ono or two firms have a wide reputation for goods of this class. By adding any coeked cereal or pulse, a more satisfactory dish is obtained; and with eggs, a little bacon, or a flavouring of cheese, a good meal may bo had at small cost, and in a short time. When served alone, if desired thick, any thickening may bePLAIN VEGETABLE COOKERY. 661 added; or the preparation may simmer for a time in an uncovered saucepan, for some of the moisture to evaporate. Tomato, Various Dishes of. —(See Salads, Pastry, Garnishes, Pukles, &c.) Truffle—This is the most dis- tinguished member of the fungi family, for which pigs and dogs are trained to hunt, as there is nothing on the surface of the ground to indicate the presence of the truffle below. There are three kinds—-red, white, and black ; the last- named are best and most used. Truffles are found in England; but those of France are superior. The truffles of Perigord are famous for their odour. Lightness in weight in proportion to size, combined with elasticity, are signs of goodness. To have truffles in perfection, they must be eaten in the fresh state, as the preserved ones lose much of their aroma. They are considered stimulating, and not very digestible. Forcemeats, sauces, sausages, and gravies which are en- riched by truffles are much esteemed generally; but the taste is an acquired one. Owing to their costliness, the most should always be made of the scraps; for example, when fancy shapes have been cut for garnishing purposes, the remnants wiil serve for other dishes; the liquor from bottled ones should always be used up in gravies, &e. Fresh truffles are to be bought in the winter; but they are costly, and many people who use bottled one3 regularly have never tasted a fresh truffle. Cost of bottled truffles, from about eighteenpence to a sovereign, according to size and quality. For recipes, see next chapter: also Index, as truffles are mentioned in various chapters. Turnip. — This is a favourite vegetable, but not very nourishing, owing to its high percentage of water. There are many varieties; the best are finely grained, juicy, smooth, and sound. The liquor from turnips will keep but a short time, especially in warm weather; turnips boiled with onions will correct tho strong flavour of the latter. The peel of turnips, if well washed, can be used for flavouring soups, &c. For serving w'hole as a vegetable, small turnips are best; when very large and old they become stringy and strong in flavour ; In this condition they are better mashed; in the opinion of some, turnips of moderate size are best so treated. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. per bunch, sometimes cheaper. Turnips, Boiled.—Peel turnips rather thickly when they have attained any size; they are pithy and indigestible if this is not done; young ones need only thinly paring. Very young ones sometimes have a little of the green tops left on. Put them in slightly- salted water, and boil gently until done. Young ones will take from twenty to thirty minutes ; older ones, from forty-five minutes to an hour and a half ; these may be halved, or a couple of cuts can be made across without diriding them. Always keep them in cold water until ready to cook, to preserve their colour. Drain thoroughly, and send to table at once. White Sauce can be poured over, or served in a tureen; or, if to be served with boiled mutton with caper sauce, some of tho latter may be used in the same way. Boiled turnips may be made more tasty by grating a little nutmeg over them in the dish, and adding a morsel of mustard (French for choice) to the sauce or melted butter that is poured over. This way is nice if for serving with boiled beef, either fresh or salted. Turnips, French.—These are more inclined to tho shape of English carrots than turnips ; their flavour is very superior to that of ordinary t urnips, and when used for flavouring purposes only should be added cautiously, or tho taste may bo too “ tumipy.” They take some time to cook, much longer than might bo thought, judging from appearances only. Wo ought to say that a good deal of the flavour lies in tho peel; therefore, when used for662 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. flavouring, they should be washed and scraped, not peeled. Cost, about 6d. per bunch, but very variable ; dearer than English turnips; although, taking into consideration the slight amount of waste when a small quantity for garnishing is required, it is quite worth while to buy these in preference to home-grown ones. Turnips, Mashed. — When tender, take the turnips up, and inash with a fork, or pass them through a colander or sieve; put them back into the saucepan, emptied and dried, with a morsel of butter, salt, pepper, and sugar; a grate of nutmeg or dash of mustard is an improvement. Stir for a minute or two, then serve. A little flour stirred in the butter, which should be first melted in the pan, makes the turnips less watery; a spoonful or two of thick white sauce has the same effect. Some persons wring them in a cloth to get rid of some of the water. Cost, about -Id. per vegetable dish. Although it is usual to boil turnips previous to mashing, we wish to re- commend steamed oneR in preference; any watery vegetable is nicer steamed than boiled. They may be cut in quarters or halves, according to size. Turnips, Various Dishes of. —(See Tuunip and Vegetable Mar- row recipes in the next chapter.) Turnip Tops (or Turnip Greens). —These should be freshly cut; their slightly bitter taste recommends them to many ; to others it is objectionable. All decayed leaves should be removed, also the tough stems; the tops only are to be usod. Wash them well, and boil in plenty of water salted as for Cabbage, with the lid off the pot. In about twenty minutes they will be tender. After draining, they are nicer if chopped up, and heated with a little butter and seasoning. For better dishes, a puree should be made spinach fashion. Cost, generally low; about Id. per pound. Turnip tops are very wholesome, and those with whom greens agree, will do well to cat them whenever they have an opportunity. Vegetable Fats and Oils.— (See Oils and Fats, Vegetable.) Vegetable Marrow. — This vegetable may be dressed in a variety of ways, and is wholesome and excellent in all. Various recipes Are given below. It comes into season towards the end of summer, and even after it is cut, if it is hung by the stalk in a cool, dry place, it will keep for some weeks. Very small marrows are likely to be deficient in flavour. Very large ones will bo full of seed. Cost, about 2d. to Cd. each. Vegetable Marrows, Boiled. —Vo. 1. Feel the marrows, free them from seed, cut them into six or eight pieces, and put them into boiling water, salted a little; let them boil gently till tender. Lift them up carefully with a slice, put them on toast, pour melted butter or white sauce over them, and serve. Vo. 2. Put the marrow whole and without skinning it into boiling water. Let it boil until tender. Take it up, halve, pare, and seed it, lay the halves on toast, with the hollow part uppermost, and fill them with sauce as above. Vo. 3. Pare and seed the marrows, divide them into quarters, and the quarters into halves. Trim them neatly. Rub the inside of a saucepan with butter. Lay the pieces of marrow in it, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, and pounded sugar. Pour upon them some weak white stock, to moisten, and boil gently till tender. Lift them upon a dish ; add to t he gravy the juice of half a lemon and a little piece of butter; pour it over tho marrow, and serve. If liked, the marrows may be stewed in milk instead of gravy, and they may bo seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Time to boil: ten to twenty minutes, if boiled in slices ; if boiled whole, longer, according to age and size.663 Plain VegEtABIe cookery. Vegetable Marrow, Broiled. —This is a good wav to re-heat some boiled marrow ; cut it in pieces,and lay them before the fire in a tin, witha little butter or dripping, and some seasoning; dredge with raspings and a little cheese, and brown up well at a quick fire. Herbs may take the place of cheese. Vegetable Marrow, Steamed.—" Boil your marrow by steaming it,” says a writer, “ and don’t take the skin off, unless yon wish to deprive it of its best properties ; cook it in the state that Nature pre- sents it, and prepare it for table afterwards.” Being of so watery a nature, this needs care; while the marrow itself is firm, but the skin soft — remember to put the pieces skin downward in the steamer—rub off the skin with a clean cloth, and cut the pieces again to a suitable size for serving: transfer them to a baking tin, and finish off in a moderate oven ; this drives off the excess of moisture, and improves the flavour. Only quite young marrows can be treated thus; and in cutting them first it is well to only halve or quarter them; or very small ones can be put in the steamer- whole, if care be taken to turn them well about. After peeling, they must be cut as above, and the seeds removed before baking. This way, they will be more fully flavoured, and will come as a pleasant surprise to those who may hitherto have eaten marrows peeled and seeded, and boiled, perhaps almost to a pulp, and have condemned them as almost flavourless, with very good reason. The fault, however, lies more in the cooking tlian the vegetable- very often. Note.—The marrow can bo sent to table in pieces with the peel on, if dished peel down ; thero is then no danger of breaking or disfiguring it. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed. —Required : materials as below. Cost, varies with the stuffing and size of marrow. The ways of stuffing vegetable marrow are numerous ; by varying the stuffing, very tasty and also substantial dishes may be concocted at small cost. A nice dish is made simply by mixing bread-crumbs with seasoning, a little Fig. 110.—Stuffed Marrow. cheese grated, and milk to moisten the mass. Or crumbs, with cooked onions and sage, with seasoning and milk. Under Foucemeats will be found very many varieties; those without suet are the best for the purpose ; a plain herb or mushroom forcemeat will be found very good; and where the marrow is to be served instead of meat, a sausage meat stuffing may be employed. One thing must be borne in mind in making the selection; that is, the size of the marrow ; it would be no use putting a solid forcemeat (one of the sausago meat variety) into a very small mar- row ; or, to get the interior cooked, the marrow would be overdone; therefore, fair-sized marrows are wanted when this sort of stuffing is preferred; and it should bo made hot before putting it in the marrow; if put in cold, the chances are that the marrow would break up by the time the filling was done. Having then prepared the stuffing, and peeled the marrow very thinly, proceed as follows:—Cut the marrow through, and scoop the seeds out; tho usual way is to tako the knifo straight through, but wo think that tho way shown in the illustration is better; thero is less tendency to slip, both in cooking and after dishing. If the marrow bo tender, it need notUNIVERSAL COOKERY ROOK. 664 be poeled. Alter filling, tie with tape, not siring, twice round, a little way from the ends ; then put more tape in a place or two to connect these pieces, and so prevent their slipping off at the ends. The marrow may then be boiled or steamed until done ; or it can be parboiled, and finished off in the oven. In dishing, remove the tape, and pour over some sauce or gravy ; the kind of stuffing must be a guide as to the sort. Time, ac- cording to size; a thin skewer or trussing needle should go easily into the marrow when ready to dish. We have reserved mention of a very homely form of stuffed marrow until last, but it deserves a trial. Mix together some bread - crumbs with about half their weight of cooked fat bacon, and a small quantity of cooked liver, chopped up; season well with herbs, and moisten with a little milk ; no eggs or other fat will be wanted, the bacon is sufficient. Then, for another that will be liked by vege- tarians, try bread-crumbs moistened with oil and seasoned with herbs, salt, and pepper, and a hint of garlic. Onion Sauce goes well with this, so does Egg Sauce. Note.—In heating sausage meat or any other stuffing for the marrow, put it in a jar and set that in boiling water to half its depth, until well heated through. Vegetables, to Sweat. — A better term for this process would, perhaps, be “ steaming in butter; ” but sweat is the one commonly used. Although simple, a few points in connection with this process must be remembered, or failure is sure. A very clean pan is wanted, and it must lie free from burnt or adhering par- ticles of any sort. A fire-proof china one, or an enamelled one is best where copper is not to be had; the butter used must be free from the slightest suspicion of taint; or instead of the flavour which sweating is considered to impart, a very unpleasant one will be given that no after-cooking can eradicate. The vegetables that are most improved by sweating are such as are of an insipid kind; turnips or Jerusalem artichokes may be instanced. Naturally, the thing to guard against in all of the white varieties is the acquiring of colour; therefore, the contonts of the pan must be watched, and shaken now and then. Whether the vegetables are to be left in the butter for a few minutes only, as they are for many soups, &c., where cook- ing is completed in the liquid, or simmered in it for purees of the rich sorts that are to be served as entre- mets, it must be remembered that sweating and frying are not the same; in fact, they are quite distinct. This mode of treating vegetables is far more universal and better understood abroad than in England, but it is particularly deserving of attention, for few have any idea of the improve- ment that may be made in vegetable dishes of all sorts until they have made trial of it. In our recipes directions are given as to the time the vegetables are to he left in the butter; but one rule holds good for all: put them in as soon as the butter is melted, and before it is really hot or has taken any colour. Then let the heat be gentle and uniform until the end. Those to whom this is an un- known mode are advised to make a few experiments. They will be astonished at the complete transfor- mation in many a dish at a very slight increase of time and trouble. Vegetarian Curries, Indian. —These may be described as “ Bhah- jees,” “ Chahkees,” and “ Dhall ” Curries. The first word means “ to fry,” and the dishes are excellent and simple when the method is under- stood. Small cucumbers answer ex- cellently for frying. They should be split through lengthwise after peeling, all the pulpy part scooped out, then sliced, and steeped in a mixture of curry powder and salt, with a little vinegar or lemon juice; or instead of curry powder, turmeric is sometimes665 PLAIN' VEGETABLE COOKERY. used, with a little cayenne popper. After steeping, the cucumber must be drained, and fried crisp in smoking oil or butter. For a “ chahkee,” some mixed vege- tables should be selected; pumpkins, potatoes, peas, cauliflowers, tomatoes, and many others may be used; they should all be prepared with care. Supposing enough to fill a quart measure, put two to three ounces of clarified butter, or oil, in a pan; when hot, add a tablespoonful of curry powder, nearly as much onion, chopped and pounded, a fourth as much garlio, salt, and vinegar, and lime or lemon juice to make a paste; stir well until there is a very savoury odour, then add a bit of brown sugar, and the vegetables drained and dried; all are to be cut up conveniently for serving. Go on stirring until all are coated with the mixture, then cover, and shake the pan while they fry. Add about half a pint of liquid, either water, milk, or vegetable stock ; to either of which some cocoa-nut infusion may be put with certain advantage. Con- tinue the cooking until the vegetables are soft, then serve with rice, plainly boiled, or either of the savoury pre- parations given under Rice may be used. Another dish of this class owes its foundation to tomatoes; they should be treated as above described, but some tamarind water is wanted, say a gill, with the same measure of stock to a pound of tomatoes. For English tastes this will be improved by the admixture of some other vege- table, as marrow, artichoke, or carrot, to reduce the extreme acidity of the dish. Of the “ dhall ” curries, one of the most popular is the one made from “ musson dhall; ” this is red, and something like Egyptian lentils, but of a nicer flavour. This has to be soaked. Some finely-shredded onions are fried, then taken from the fat while the dhall is fried (first drained and dried). Some curry, garlic, onions, and vinegar, as above detailed, are then stirred in, with the same sort of stock, &c., only just to cover; the whole being gently cooked until done. The fried onions are sprinkled over just before serving. This is eaten with rice or bread; or both can be served with it. Cost varies with the season, but the dishes am inexpensive on the whole. Vegetarian Irish Stew.— Required : a pound of potatoes, half a pound of onions, a couple or three leeks, half a pound of haricot beans, seasoning, a little oil, and a small turnip. Cost, about 6d. Peel and quarter the potatoes; cut up finely the onions and leeks, and slice the turnip ; add salt and pepper, and a pint of boiling water; stew for an hour or more, then add the beans (which have been px-eviously boiled); cover, and cook for a quarter of an hour longer. The oil should be added with the beans. In this dish, the beans take the place of the meat used in Irish stew of the usual kind; the oil making up for the deficiency of fat. If the water from the haricots is not wanted for soup, use it for the stew. Green or red haricots, as well ns white, may be used for this. Peas or lentils furnish another variety of the same class of stews. Boiled macaroni or rice can be sent to table. A few cloves and allspice berries, and a bay leaf, should be stewed with the above when a very savoury dish is desired; and the addition of a little store sauce or ketchup is optional. Walnut,—This nut is cultivated very extensively throughout Europe. On the continent it is looked upon almost as a necessary of life. The oil, while fresh, is but little inferior to that of tho olive, but soon turns rancid. Tho refuse matter, after the extraction of the oil, is eaten by the very poor in some parts of Switzerland. A very favourite pickle is made from unripe walnuts, also a ketchup. In some parts, walnut jam is elevated to the rank of a pleasant domestic medicine, and is considered laxativeUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. G66 and cooling. A salad from young nuts is popular in France. The nut in the ripe condition is said to be in perfection when the skin parts easily from the kernel. Cost of wal- nuts in the green state, about a shilling per hundred when plentiful, but may reach double that amount. Ripe nuts are from three or four pence per pound on an average. (See Index for recipes for Pickled Walnuts, &c.) Watercress.—This herb is pos- sessed of valuable medicinal properties, and by most persons may be eaten freely. It is, perhaps, most largely eaten with salt, as an accompaniment to bread and cheese, or butter; it makes, with other materials, excellent salad; is most useful as a garnish ;. and can be cooked and served like spinach. Watercress is said to be the most popular and wholesome of all the salad plants; its dietetic value is great, owing to the mineral matter, aromatic oil, and other minor ingredients. In preparing cress for table, great care is necessary to free it from adhering animal matter; plenty of water, with a little salt is needed; and after the last rinsing, the sprigs should be well shaken, and drained in a cloth before dishing; never serve sodden or drip- ping. Sometimes, nothing but the coarse stalks need bo removed; at others, fibrous matter clings about the stalks, then the leaves must be picked off neatly in little bunches. Cost, about Id. or 6d. per pound. Watercress, Boiled.—Boil as spinach, sorrel, &c.; or add a little to any other green puree. It is also very good in soups; it may be thrown in in leaves, or chopped and added like chervil, tarragon, &c. It takes but a short time to cook, and is almost always acceptable to the palate. Watercress enters into many dishes in this work; viz., Sandwiches, Salads, Savouries, &c. Yam. — Yams are now to be had of dealers in Indian produce in Lon- don ; they cost about three shillings per cask of fourteen pounds. The same firms sell sweet potatoes at the same price. Yams, American.—This dish is much liked; slice and cut the yams into rounds; wash and dry them; put them in a well-buttered saucepan, with a little salt and nutmeg; just moisten with water, and stew them, closely covered, until done. They should bo turned sometimes. Some white sauce should be served with them; it may be sweetened, or seasoned with salt only. Yams, Baked.—A writer says that “ although excellent when boiled, yams are best baked in their skins, in the embers of a wood fire if possible. They want nothing more than salt and a morsel of butter; besides being the best way, it is also the least trouble; but for variety, they may be prepared in any of the ways in which potatoes are familiar. Potato eaters are sure to like yams.”Plate VI. MACEDOINES IN CASES WITH ASPARAGUS,DRESSED VEGETABLES. (See also Entrees, Souffles, Omelets, Fritters, Salads, Pastry, &c. &c.) In this chapter are dishes of vegetables for serving with meat that are entitled to rank above the commonplace, either by reason of the trouble involved in their preparation, or the'costliness of the adjuncts. Here also will be found the dishes known as entremets, or as they are some- times called, second course dishes; the latter term is hardly correct at the present time, ns many nice dishes of vegetables are served as a second entree. Considerable attention has been given of late to this branch of the cuisine, and rightly so; and there is not the slightest reason for people who do not dine late, or who do not partake of the number of courses that constitute a high-class dinner, to debar themselves of dainties of this kind. There is no question that the only way to enjoy and appreciate the delicate flavour of many vegetables is in the form of entremets; and their preparation is in many instances far less troublesome than it appears on paper. The first step to success is, we think, a right understanding of the initial preparation of the vegetable, whatever its kind; and for this reason those who serve plainly cooked vegetables in perfection will be likely to succeed with the dishes we are now considering. The rules for vegetable cookery generally are given in the preceding chapter, and to repeat them here would waste space. Of the iced vegetable dishes, which are just now fashionable—more fashionable than wholesome, some consider—only a few examples are given ; but others can be evolved by any intelligent cook. A number of the sauces that are served cold are just as nice iced as the kinds singled out for treatment, and almost any vegetable is sure of a welcome if perfectly cooked and left to get cold, then served in a tasty form with a good cold or iced sauce. But the dainty service of such dishes is important. It is not necessary that all should be elaborately garnished; but it is not enough to “ bundle ” them on a dish in any fashion, and it is just at this point that so many people break down; the finishing touches are completely ignored. We would call attention to the fact that many of the dishes here may do double duty; that is, they will by a very little alteration serve as salads; in fact in some instances it is rather difficult to draw a line between vegetable entremets and salads ; the latter term is now so elastic. We have already spoken of the uses of tinned vegetables, but perhaps they are never more handv than for little dishes of dressed vegetables, especially when a few of several kinds are required. Artichoke Bottoms Puree.— 1 Tut the cooked artichoke bottoms Required : artichoke bottoms, stock, in a saucepan ; the tinned ones answer and sauce as below. Cost, if tinned I well; add a little good whito stock, and vegetables, about Is. Cd. to Is. 8d.; of cook fora short time, then rub them fresh ones, uncertain. | through a wire sievo; put the pur6e in668 UNIVERSAL COOKERY rook. a saucepan with a small quantity of sauce herbace, or sauce verte (see pages 102 and 104); stir until hot. Artichoke Bottoms with Chestnuts.—Required: a tin of artichoke bottoms, chestnuts, stock, butter, cream, bread-crumbs, and gar- nish as below. Cost, about 2s. 3d. Slake a tin of artichoke bottoms hot. Put the liquor from the tin in a stew- pan, with a pound of chestnuts that have been roasted and peeled; bring to the boil, add a little white stock to make about half a pint of liquid altogether, and an ounce of butter. Simmer gently until the liquid is absorbed, then take up the best of the chestnuts, and put one on each arti- choke bottom; pass the rest through a sieve, add a little thick cream, and re-heat, then pour it over the whole chestnuts. Sprinkle some fried crumbs over, and set in the oven for a minute or two before dishing. Garnish with fancy croutons masked with Tomato Butter. Artichoke Bottoms with Iced Sauce.—Required : artichoke bottoms, celery puree, sauce, and gar- nish as below. Cost, varies with the kind of sauce and garnish. The combinations that are possible are too numerous to mention ; but the following ways ai'e recommended both for the appearance and flavour of the dishes. Drain a tin of artichoke bottoms from the liquor, and dry them in a cloth. Put them on ice to cool, then arrange them on the dish for serving, and put in the centre of each a little pile of rich celery puree (page 677); this is also to be first cooled; round the celery lay tiny squares of Sauce a la Barhe, that has been frozen in a shallow mould and coloured a rather deep pink. Place them on a dish paper, and serve at once. Another way of serving, which is very pretty, is to freeze the sauce in a very shallow tin and stamp it in rounds when firm, and lay one on each artichoke bottom ; the latter should be the larger, and they should be placed en couronne on a dish, with the celery puree in the centre; this may be garnished with the trimmings of the sauce, cut up finely; a few leaves of cress or chervil, here and there between the sauce, will improve the appearance. Another way.—Make some Sauce a la Dresue, and cut it in rounds when frozen. Lay one on each artichoke bottom, so that the two colours that compose the sauce show alternately ; arrange as in the preceding recipe, but with a mixture of artichoke bottoms and beetroot in dice in the middle; moisten these with oil and vinegar, and season with mignonette pepper; garnish with the trimmings of the sauce and some plain mayonnaise. Artichoke Creams.—Required: an artichoke puree, spinach, cream, stock, eggs, and seasoning .os below. Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 3s. The illustration shows the kind of Fio. 111.—Artichoke Mould. moulds required. They are very use- ful for many purposes, and are made small enough to serve one to each person. Make a puree of artichoke bottoms (page 667) ; add to a pint a tablespoonful of cooked sieved spinach, twice tho measure of thick cream and strong stock, and when the mixture is cool, the yolks of three eggs; beat well, then season with salt and pepper, and a dash of cayenne and nutmeg. Then whip the whites of the eggs and stir in, and three-parts fill the moulds with the mixture after buttering them with clarified butter. Bake in a pan of water, or steam, and turn out as soon as firm. Serve as a second course dishDRESSED VEGETABLES. 669 with a little good gravy or sauce, or send to table with braised joints, steaks, Arc. For separate service, dish on a rice or potato border, or a ring croustade. Serve as hot as possible. Another way.—This is a good cold dish. Required: a pint of puree (made by passing cooked artichoke bottoms through a sieve while hot), a gill of mayonnaise, the same of strong aspic, a tablespoonful of whipped cream, twice the measure of chicken stock, the same of cooked chicken, pounded, and a little green colouring.' Cost, about 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. The ingredients mentioned should be put to the puree by degrees, and the mixture stirred over ice until on the point of setting; then, if not firm enough, a little more chicken and aspic should be added, as in warm weather it is likely to need this. Fill the moulds, and level the surface with a palette knife, and set them in a cave, or imbed them in ice until cold and firm enough to turn out. For a more ornamental dish, the moulds may be lined with pale green aspic. Artichoke Puree.—Required: Jerusalem artichokes, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about lOd. to Is. This is rich, and is very nice with cutlets, &c.; it can be put in the centre, or may be served in a dish, or round a small braised joint. After boiling the artichokes, mash them with a fork, then rub through a hair sieve. Put the pulp in a stewpan, and add to a quart an ounce of butter, and a little salt and pepper, with a couple of table- spoonfuls of cream. Stir to the boil, and serve hot. There are several ways of varying this. Any rich sauce that will suit the meat is used in place of cream. White mushroom, or good parsley, or any that would be suitably poured’over the vegetables in the whole state, answers. With veal, white sauce flavoured with grated cheese is often liked. After dishing the purfe, some chopped truffles or parsley, or grated ham, may be sprinkled over the surface; or it may be left quite plain. Artichokes A la Barigoule. — Required: artichokes, forcemeat, butter, stock, thickeniiTg, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to 2s. fid., varies with the season and kind of forcemeat. Take half a dozen globe artichokes; wash and trim them, and remove the chokes. Fill the vacant spaces with a veal forcemeat, or one of veal and ham; a little chopped mushroom may bo added if liked (see Forcemeats). Mix and bind with beaten egg, then, after filling, tie the artichokes into shape with tape. Fry them a little in a covered pan, then pour off the butter, and add some good brown stock to j ust cover them. Cook gently for about forty minutes, and serve with the stock thickened a little, poured round them. Stock that would be suitable for good clear soup is required for these; it should be of a good colour and flavour. Another way.—Put the artichokes in a stewpan, with a few chopped mixed vegetables at the bottom ; lay a slice of bacon over, and cook covered for a short time, then drain, and cook in another pan with stock as above directed. By some, the flavour of the bacon is preferred to that of butter. Artichokes a l’ltalienne.— Required : artichokes, sauce, and garnish as below. Cost, about 4d. to fid. each inclusive, but variable. Wash and trim some globe arti- chokes, and quarter them; boil until soft, and take the chokes out; arrange them on a dish, leaves outwards, and garnish with watercress and slices of lemon. Pour some rich white sauce, that has been flavoured with mush- rooms, all over the artichokes. Any good sauce does, and about a table- spoonful of white mushroom puree will flavour half a pint sufficiently for this dish. Artichokes A la Lyonuaise. —Required : artichokes, sauce, butter, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. fid. Wash and trim some globe arti- chokes; put them on to boil just for a minute or two, then drain and dry670 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them. Put two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan for each half dozen ; add the juice of half a lemon, a pinch of salt and popper, and a grate of nutmeg. Sweat them in this very Boftly for about twenty minutes. Then drain them, and set them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. Add half a pint of good white stock (for six artichokes) to the pan, with a glass of light wine, and a slight thickening- of flour; boil up, and put the artichokes in; the sauce should only come half-way up them ; cover, and serve in ten minutes with the sauce round them. Artichokes with Brown Sauce.—Parboil some Jerusalem artichokes; cut them as desired (see page 607); then leave them to get cold. Roll them in beaten egg and fine crumbs, or crushed vermicelli, and fry them golden brown and crisp. Put them on a dish, and garnish with friod parsley, and serve a good brown sauce with them. It may be ordinary bl own sauce, or one of the best brown stocks can be thickened with roux and glaze to the consistence of thick cream. Thoy may also be dished each on a crouton, and sent to table with a puree of grec-n vegetables in the centre. This can be garnished with braised ham or tongue, and some fried or poached eggs. Cost of artichokes, from 3d. to 4d. each. Total cost, variable. Artichokes with White Sauce.—Both globe and Jerusalem artichokes are excellent with bechamel, supreme, veloute, Dutch, or any of the good sauces of the white class. It may be poured over, or sent to table separately, and the vegetables may be dished in various ways. If served as entremets, they should be put on croutons, or garnished with them, or with something of a contrasting colour. Jerusalem artichokes look nice with fancy shapes of cooked beetroot, or strips of glazed ham or tongue. Another nice dish is mado of a puree of some green vegetables, with arti- chokes, cut pear-shaped, placed round it. Eggs also go well with them. Oiled But-run or rich Melted Butter is very good with artichokes, and some prefer it to any other sauce. Asparagus & la Supreme.— Required: asparagus, sauce, cream, fowl, stock, and seasoning as below. Cost, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d., exclusive of the asparagus. This is a very excellent entree, if carofully prepared and cooked. Take fifty heads of asparagus and cut off the points as soon as done; they are to be boiled plainly; continue the cooking of the stalk parts until all but the extreme ends will pass through a sieve; sieve the heads also. Pound up the breast of a fine boiled fowl, and add it Fio. 112.—Asparagus Mould. proportionately to the two separate purees; mix in also two tablespoonfuls of Supreme Sauce, and the same mea- sure of rich chicken stock; then to each add a gill of whipped cream. Season the preparations pleasantly but deli- cately. Butter a mould like the ono shown, and put in part of the green puree to one-fourth its depth ; then mix the rest of the green with half the white puree, and put in the mould ; the white puree is finally added, to imitate the stalk ends of the asparagus. Cover tho mould with a stout sheet of white paper, very thoroughly buttered, and steam it for about forty minutes; tho water must boil at the first, but only simmer afterwards; see that it is firm before turning out; slip it gently on to a hot dish and fill tho centre of the mould withDRESSED VEGETABLES. 671 asparagus heads, separately cooked, and pour more sauce round the base. If preferred, some chicken quenelle mix- ture may be used in place of the cooked chicken, but longer time is required for the cooking. Veal, either raw or cooked, may be used, and bechamel or other good white sauce may take the place of supreme. Before putting the three mixtures in the mould, note their colour, and, if needed, add a little green colouring or spinach j uice to the first one; the second should be a neutral or mixed tint. The resemblance to the vegetable is then very perfect when cooked. For a more substantial entree of the sort, a larger proportion of chicken can be added to the white puree; then rather more cream and sauce should be used. Medium-sized asparagus is intended. This will serve a good number. If the white of an egg be added, the pre- paration will he firmer, and cook in a trifie less time. Asparagus Cakes.—Required : a pound tin of asparagus, crumbs, eggs, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. Take the asparagus from the tin, and cut it into half-inch lengths ; add two eggs beaten well, and a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and parsley, or marjoram; mix in bread-crumbs by degrees until the mass can be moulded into small balls, then flattened into cakes of half an inch thick and a couple of inches in diameter. About eight ounces of crumbs will be wanted. When all are shaped, let them stand for a time, then brush them over with the white of an egg, and roll in bread-crumbs ; fry a nice brown, and drain well. Garnish with fried parsley. This is a vegetarian recipe; non- vegetarians will like the addition of an ounce or two of chopped ham. The liquor from the tin should be mixed with milk, and thickened with flour and butter for sauce. (See recipes for White Sauce.) Asparagus Crotites.—Re- quired : asparagus, butter, cream, seasoning, eggs, parsley, and bread. Cost, from Is. Gd. to 2s. on an average. Cook the asparagus plainly, then chop up the tender stalk part, reserving the tips. Put a quarter of a pint or thereabouts of the chopped part in a saucepan; add an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a little salt and pepper, and a dust of nutmeg; stir until hot, then add the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a tablespoonful of bechamel. Have ready some rounds of fried bread, the size of a crown piece, pile the'mixture neatly on them, leaving the edges clear; arrange them on a dish, and garnish the tops alternately with hard eggs, both sieved yolk and chopped white, and scalded and chopped parsley; this is for the edges only; now put in the middle of all a little pile of the tips, that have been warmed in readiness between two plates. This is a very delicious little dish ; it can bo varied by using Hutch or any similar sauce in place of the one named. The dish should be gar- nished with fried parsley. Asparagus, Iced,—(See Iced Vegetaules, page 683.) Asparagus Puree.—After boiling and sieving the white part of the asparagus, put it in a stewpan, and treat it as directed for Artichoke Poree. Pile in a dish, and garnish with the points. This looks nice in the centre of a ring of cutlets. For variety, the points can be piled in the centre, and sieved egg yolk over the rest. Stick fancy croutons round, and serve hot. Cost, varies with the season. Asparagus with Iced Sauce. —After cooking a bundle of asparagus, drain and lay it on a dish, and set on ice or in an ice cave for a time. Slake some Sauce a l’Alceste, about half a pint for a bundle of fifty heads of asparagus; cut the stalk ends of the latter into tiny pieces, and mix in with the sauce before freezing; the heads should bo left with the tender green part-attached. When ready to servo, either turn the border of sauce in aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 672 dish and fill up tho middle with the asparagus, or arrange the asparagus round a dish, and cut up and pile the sauce in the middle. Or a rice block can he used for tho centre of the dish, tho asparagus put round it, and the sauce cut up and placed at the base. Another way.— Use Sauce A la Baube, and pound the inferior part of the asparagus, then mix it with the other ingredients before freezing. After turning out the border of sauce, pack the asparagus close together in the centre, the heads stahding up above the border. If preferred, omit any asparagus in the sauce, and use asparagus tips only (fresh or tinned) in the centro. Or use Sauce A la Guernsey in place of the foregoing. This is preferably left all pink for this dish, and the tips of the asparagus only are wanted. Peas can be used in the same way, so can French beans. The cost of the above varies with the season. (For cost of sauces, see the recipes.) Asparagus with Sauce Verte.—Make the sauce by either of the recipes, except the last, on page 114. After mixing, put it in the dish in a pile, and set it to get cool, then put a small quantity of white mayonnaise round the base, and stick the asparagus, freed from the extreme ends, round it; that is, the ends of the asparagus are to he inserted in the white mayonnaise. The dish should then be served at once; hut the asparagus is to be set on ice for a time before adding it to the sauce. Total cost, variable. Asparagus with Vinaigrette Sauce.—Make the sauce as directed on page 115, but omit the sugar. Boil the asparagus, and serve in the usual way, with the sauce in a boat. Or send it to table with cold asparagus, with which it is excellent. The vege- table should then be set on ice, or in a cave, until cold. It may be dished alone, or with a ring of beetroot; the points of the asparagus should meet in the centre of the dish. Total cost, variable. Aubergines Farcies. — Be- quired : aubergines, onions, seasoning, mushrooms, parsley, bread - crumbs, eggs, and oil as below. Cost, exclusive of aubergines, about 9d. Total cost, uncertain. Take three medium-sized auber- gines ; cut them through lengthwise, and scoop out a portion of the inside, leaving the rest adhering to the skin; sprinkle them with a little salt, and leave them on a sieve. Chop up a couplo of onions, add the portion taken from the aubergines, but first let the onions brown in a little butter; then add some chopped mushrooms and parsley, with an equal amount of bread-crumbs; stir for a few minutes, then draw the pan from the fire, and put in the yolks of a couple of eggs. Stuff the halves with this, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs. Arrange them in a baking tin, and pour some good olive oil over; bake in a gentle oven to a delicate brown. Another way.—Take some small auberginos, and cut the stalks off; remove some of the inside through tho opening with a scoop or spoon-handle; make tiny incisions in the skins, and insert some thin shreds of onion or shalot. Chop up the inside with raw meat, or add sausage meat, and a small proportion of boiled rice, with a good seasoning of salt and pepper, and herbs. Fill up the aubergines with this; dip them into hot oil for a second, then drain, and bake with more oil; or pour a little tomato conserve over, and baste with it during tho baking. Serve very hot. Cost, very variable. Beans a la Jersey.—Required: beans, stock, wine, butter, mushrooms, parsley, seasoning, meat, &c., as below. Cost, about 2s. to 2s. 3d. Either broad beans or haricots can be used; they must be boiled, and then treated as follows:—Take a gill of the liquor they have been boiled in (it should be good white stock of any kind) for a quart of beans; add to it the same measure of white wine, and boil with a teaspoonful of fine rice673 DRESSED VEGETABLES. flour; stir in a good tablcspoonful of chopped mushrooms cooked in butter, a fourth as much paisley, the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, the same bulk of chopped bay leaf and tarragon mixed, and a small chopped onion that has been fried brown. Give a few minutes’ cooking, then put in an ounce of butter, a bit of glaze the size of a small nut, and seasoning to taste. Have some thin slices from a hot braised or boiled tongue, either calf's or sheep's; form a ring with these and some croutons the same shape; mix the beans in the sauce, and pour them in the centre; then serve hot. This is a good luncheon dish. Beans a la Ponlette, Vege- tarian.—Required : beans, seasoning, butter, eggs, thickening, &c\, as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. Boil some small broad beans; they cannot be too young for this dish; drain them, and put them in a sauce- pan, with two ounces of butter to each quart; add a dust of sugar, and salt and pepper to season nicely ; shake in a tablespoonful of flour, stir to the boil, then draw the pan back and beat in the yolks of two eggs ; go on beating just below boiling point for a minute. Serve with a squeeze of lemon juice or white vinegar over, and as hot as possible. By adding chopped shalot or very mild onions, a tablespoonful to the quart, and some mixed herbs in place of plain seasoning, the dish becomes a la Bourgeoise. A few spoonfuls of vegetable stock can be put in the pan, and the quantity of flour slightly increased. The onions should be fried a little first of all. Beetroot Purde.— Required: beetroot and other materials as below. Cost, varies with the adjuncts used. Boil some beetroot, and make a purde of it in the way directed for artichokes or turnips ; or add some brown sauce to it, with a few drops of carmine to make it a rich colour. It is very useful on account of its appearance, as it forms a pleasant contrast to dishes of white meat. A still prettier dish is made by dividing tho beetroot puree into sections by means of chopped white of egg, or the sieved yolk, or some green puree from a bag and pipe. A pretty effect is also got by putting rows of the above, with turnip or other white puree in stripes, from base to point, or in rounds, until a pyramid is formod. A puree of onions or celery can bo used in this way, and the dish improved in taste as well as appearance. Broad Beaus with Brown Sauce.—Required: beans,sauce, ham, eggs, and bacon as below. Cost, about 9d. to Is. If quite young beans are used, this is a very good dish. Boil them until the outer shells can bo removed, then put them in a saucepan, with enough browm sauce to cover them; add a tablespoonful of chopped ham to each pint of beans, and, when hot, serve with a squeeze of lemon last thing. Garnish with hard eggs in slices to form a ring, and rounds of fried bacon in between; or with croutons and eggs. Either of the piquant brown sauces may be used similarly. Small fried onions are sometimes used as garnish to the above ; or some fried sliced onions may be put in the sauce. Broad Beans with Bgg Sauce.—The beans are to be boiled and husked, then covered with Egg Sauce, and left for a few minutes. After dishing, garnish with ham, boiled or fried, and cut in dice. This is a very tasty and favourite dish. Cost, if a quart of beans, about Is. 3d. Broad Beans with Tomato Chips. — Required: beans, sauce, tomatoes, macaroni, Ac., as under. Cost, about Is. to Is. 3d. Boil and husk tho beans; they should be young; pile them up, and pour a pint of good Melted Butteh over each quart. Sprinkle thickly with Tomato Chips, and a little shredded tarragon. Garnish with little heaps of the chips, alternated with boiled macaroni; sprinkle tarragon over the latter. This goes well with boiled ham.674 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Broad Beans witli White Sauce.—These are served with any good white sauce (see recipes for tur- nips, Jerusalem artichokes, and other white vegetables). Purees of broad beans can be made as directed for white haricots. Good Parsley Sauce, or any kind with a nice seasoning of herbs, is particularly good with beans. Cost, varies with the kind of sauce. Brussels Sprouts with Cheese Sauce.—Required: sprouts, sauce, croutons, cheese, ham, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. for a dish of two pounds of sprouts. Boil and drain the sprouts, and pilo them in a dish in circles; there should be one sprout only on the top, and that is to be left as it is. Over the rest, pour some cheese sauce (sec page 94). Round the pile put some small croutons, glazed and sprinkled with grated cheese, then with grated liam; put a little brown sauce over. Serve very hot. If wanted more substantial, some strips of cooked ham may be put between the croutons. This is a very nice dish. Brussels Sprouts with To- mato Sauce.—Proceod as above, using a sauce made from the pulp of some ripe tomatoes, thickened with roux to the consistence of custard, and seasoned. Or the sauce of page 106 may be used. On the top of the sprouts put some cooked macaroni, and a border of it round the base. Use croutons as above, in addition, and the dish will have a very pretty appearance. Cardoons, Boiled.—Choose a few heads of sound white cardoons. Cut them into pieces about six inches long, remove the prickles, and blanch them. Scrape off the skin and tie them in bundles. Cover them with nicely-flavoured stock, and boil till tender. Drain them, and serve on toast, with plenty of good melted butter. Half a dozen will make a dish. Cardoons, Fried. — Proceed as above, and when the cardoons are tender, melt a little butter in a pan, drain the cardoons, dredge a little flour over, and fry them till they arc nicely browned. Send good melted butter to table with them. Cardoons en Ragout.—Pre- pare the cardoons by boiling as above until nearly done. Then lay them in a stewpan with enough stock to cover them; it should be rich bi’own. Just before dishing, add half a glass of sherry, and half an ounce of glaze to each half pint of gravy. Salt and a pinch of cayenne are the only condi- ments required for the seasoning. Cost, too variable to give an average. Carrot Cutlets.—Required: two or three carrots, egg, bread, garnish, and sauce as below. Cost, about 9d. or lOd. Large carrots are wanted for this dish. Slice them lengthwise after boiling, or, better still, braise them until nearly done, then egg and crumb, and fry brown. Cut them out with cutlet cutters, either plain or fluted; coat half the number with sieved egg yolk and chopped parsley, and dish them in a ring, with the plain alter- nately ; they should rest on a ring of fried bread. Cut up the trimmings into small pieces, put them in the centre of the dish, and pour a little thick white sauce over—Bechamel, or any similar. Carrot Puree.—See the recipe for Carrot Sauce, page 92. Cook as therein directed, but let the carrots cook in the butter longer; sieve them, and add brown sauce only—no stock. If colour is an object, add a little yellow colouring; or, instead of brown sauce, use a good white one, and beat in tho yolk of an egg to each half pint of carrots. By using grated carrots as directed, a full-flavoured puree is ob- tained; but a very good one can be got by braising or stewing some carrots, and sieving them; the pulp thus obtained may be enriched with a little brown or white sauce, according to the purpose for which it required, or butter or cream may be used. Chopped capers or parsley will give a nice flavour, orDRESSED VEGETABLES. 675 the puree may be left plain. Young carrots produce the mildest puree. Cost, varies with the mode of cooking the carrots and the season—about 6d. to 9d. per pint. Carrots, Braised.—Required : carrots, stock, butter, seasoning, &e., as below. Cost, varies with the season and stock. For a first-rate dish, use stock No. 16 or 17. Prepare the carrots as for Buttered or Fried Carrots, or cut the red part in slices lengthwise, then divide it into strips or any shapes preferred. Bring the carrots to the boil in water to cover, then dry them ; to a quart add two ounces of butter, sweat them for ten minutes, then add a gill and a half of stock as above, or a plainer stock for a less expensive dish. Cover, and cook for thirty minutes to an hour, according to shape and thick- ness. Baste often, and add more stock if required. When tender, dish in a pyramid, and pour the gravy over after seasoning to taste. These go well with rich braised meats. Carrots, Buttered.—Boil some carrots; slice them, and cut into dice about half an inch square; they should be barely done when taken up. Put them in a stewpan with a few ounces of butter to a quart; sweat them in this for ten minutes, shaking the pan ; add salt and pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The butter should adhere to them. Then serve in a pile in the centre of cutlets, fillets, &c. The water from the carrots will make nice soup. For a better dish, use the red part only, and make the dice smaller. Shapes as below can also be buttered. Cost, about 8d. or 9d. Carrots a la Flamande.— Required : carrots, seasoning, butter, eggs, cream, and parsley. Cost, about Is. Take a bunch of young carrots, which alone are suitable, wash them well, cut off the heads and points, and place them in boiling water for five minutes. Take them out, drain, rub off the skin with a coarse cloth, cut them into very thin slices, and put' them into a saucepan with a gill of water, a little salt and pepper, and a piece of butter the sizo of a small egg. Cover them closely, and simmer gently for twenty minutes, shaking the pan occasionally that they may be equally cooked. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a gill of cream, and a dessertspoonful of finoly-chnpned parsley'. Draw the pan from tlu lire for a couple of minutes, taking off the cover, put a tablespoonful or two of the liquid with the eggs and cream, then pour the whole gradually into the saucepan. Stir the sauce until it thickens, and serve the carrots with the sauce poured over them. Carrots, Fried.—Plainly-sliced carrots may' be fried; but they look nicer treated as below. Boil them in stock until done; when cold, cut tho thick ends into slices an inch thick; cut these into shapes like the section of an orange; season them plainly, or with herbs, then dip into beaten egg and crumbs, and fry a good brown. Thus fried, they' look nice as a pile in the centre of cutlets. The thin ends should be fried whole, and used for garnishing. Or, for a separate dish, they can be coated with grated cheese before frying, and served with a good white sauce. Cost, about the samo as the above. Carrots, Glazed.—Use medium brown stock to cook the carrots, after preparing them as for Cauiiots, Braised. They' may be whole if young, or in any shape if large. During tho end of the cooking, let the stock boil rather fast, and, just before dishing, add a morsel of glaze, just to give stickiness, not to make the stock thick; coat them with this, add a pinch of sugar, and dish. Or tho carrots can be drained from tho slock, and brushed over with glaze prepared as for meat; the stock should then be poured round them. Ordinary boiled carrots can also be glazed and usod as garnish ; they should bo dried in a doth before tho glaze is put on.676 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. Carrots a la Kurrachee.— Required : carrots, butter, stock, glaze, curry, sherry, cocoa-nut, gravy, rice, garnish, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. Boil a pound and a half of young carrots in a small quantity of water until they are almost done, then lay them in a cloth and dry them. Put a couple of ounces of butter and a pinch of sugar in a stewpan, and lay the carrots in ; turn them about for a few minutes, then pour over them the water they were boiled in; add brown stock to make up a pint, a bit of glaze, a teaspoonful of curry paste, the same of grated cocoa-nut, a teaspoonful of sherry, and the same of lemon juice. Simmer for ten minutes, taking care the carrots do not break, then add a little browned flour to make the gravy rather thick; take the carrots up and glaze them; sprinkle half with chopped parsley, and the rest with sieved egg yolk ; place them alternately round a dish, and fill the centre with half a pound of boiled rice, then pour the ravy over it and serve at once. The ish looks nice if a little of the white rice is put in the middle and garnished like the carrots. For a very piquant gravy, add a little hot chutney. Cauliflower Aigrettes.—{See directions for Cheese Aigrettes.) Required : a small cauliflower, sauce, batter, and seasoning as below. Cost, about Is., but variable. Boil some cauliflower, and break it into sprigs; season them, and coat them with cheese sauce (page 94), and leave until cold. Then coat them with frying batter (see Index) mixed with an ounce of grated ham, and a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley to each half pint. Fry, and serve in a ring with fried parsley in the centre. This is a very good savoury ; it has a nice appearance, owing to the feathery shapes of the sprigs. Cauliflower in Butter.—The cauliflower should be a good firm one, neatly broken into sprigs, and cooked until half done in boiling water and salt (see Cauliflower, to Boil). Then drain it well, and put it in a stewpan with a couple of ounces of dissolved butter; more if a very largo one, but a moderate-sized is best; add the juico of a small lemon, the same measure of pale stock, and a pinch of cayenne. Cook until done, strain the mixture from the cauliflower, add it to half a pint of good Melted Butter or White Sauce, pour over the cauliflower, and serve very hot. Cost, about Is. Another way.—Pour Dutch Sauce over, or Cream Sauce is delicious. A small vegetable dish should be used, and the vegetable piled lightly in, with sauce between the layers, plenty being reserved for the top. Cost, about Is. Cauliflower au Gratin.—Re- quired : cauliflower, sauce, and cheese as under. Cost, from 8d. to lOd. on an average. This is an old favourite ; cheese and cauliflower seem to blend peculiarly well. After a cauliflower has been boiled and drained, put it, flower up, in a dish that will just take it. Mask it with Cheese Sauce ; for a good dish, make it by the rich recipe; sprinkle with grated cheese, and finish it in the oven; if not brown, finish with the salamander. Some cooks use white sauce, first sprinkling the cauliflower with cheese, then grating more cheese on the surface of the sauce, together with bread-crumbs, and finishing as above. Cauliflower, Moulded. — Re- quired : cauliflower, milk, bread, cream, eggs, seasoning, butter, and lemon juice. Cost, about Is. 3d., exclusive of sauce. This is a Brittany dish, and a very good one. Break up the cauliflower (one medium or two small) into sprigs, and, after washing well, boil them in milk until almost done. Drain and weigh them, and add an equal weight of bread-crumbs, then mix them up with a gill of milk, half as much cream, the yolks of four eggs, about a tea- spoonful of salt, half as much white pepper, and a pinch each of cayenne and ground mace. Last of all, stir in twoDRESSED VEGETABLES. 677 ounces of clarified butter, and a table- spoonful of lemon juice. Butter a plain mould, and fill with the mixture; bake in a slow oven until firm, and serve in the mould with a serviette pinned round it. Sauce is optional; if served, it should be white. If the crumbs be allowed to soak in the milk and cream for a short time before baking, the dish is all the better. The milk is to be taken from that in which the vegetable is boiled; the surplus milk, with the stalks of the cauliflowers, will come in handy for soup. For a richer dish, use less crumbs, and add one or two more eggs. Bake in a fancy mould, and serve with Dutch Sauce or Rich Melted Butter. Celery, Braised. — Required : celery, carrot, onion, butter, parsley, stock, glaze, and seasoning. Cost, about 8d. for celery. Total cost, variable, according to richness of stock, kc. Take a couple of heads of celery, and wash it well, then trim away the hard root part; lay it in a pan with a few bits of carrot and onion, and a small sprig of parsley; add a couple of ounces of butter, and cover the top with a buttered paper; put in also the part of the root that was removed, after cutting it in shreds; it will assist in flavouring the braise. In about twenty minutes, after shaking the pan from time to time, add a pint of good brown stock, and cover the pan; cook the celery very softly for an hour and a half to two hours; take it up when done, and cut the heads through lengthwise into four or six parts, flatten them, and roll them up; place these rolls on a dish and keep them hot over boiling water; boil the gravy fast for a short time, add a little glaze and seasoning, and pour it round or over the celery. If for serving with steaks, or braised beef, or other meat, it is now complete; but for a separate dish, add a few croutons, or fancy shapes of glazed ham, with a spinkling of sieved egg yolk if liked. Any stock that is suitable for clear soup may be used for this. The above quantity of stock will serve for three small heads. Another way.—Take the root of the celery right off, cut the rest up in pieces of a couple of inches, and tie them up to keep them in shape. Add the root and some of the green tops to the stewpan. Cook as before, taking care the celery does not break and become ragged-looking; it wants very slow cooking to avoid it; after taking the tapes off—always use tape in preference to string—dish the pieces upright, close together round the dish, and fill the centre with any nice green vegetable puree, and pour the sauce round the base. Or the dish can be filled up with any whole vegetables of a contrasting colour; small tomatoes, cooked nicely, answer admirably. The sauce must be strained to keep back the tops. Celery, Curried.—The recipe for curried vegetables (page 680) may be followed, omitting chutney and tamarinds, and reducing the apple, as the celery flavour should predominate. Another good dish is to be had by making some Curry Sauce, and adding- some celery—that has been braised as above directed, in a very little stock— to make it as thick as may be desired. Or the sauce may be poured over some cooked celery. Rice is optional. Cost, for a dish of two heads of celery, from lOd. to Is. or more. Celery Pur6e. — Required: celery, butter, thickening, seasoning, and stock or milk as below. Cost, from Is. to Is. 3d. on an average. For a good puree, put the white part of two or three heads of celery in a saucepan (the green part should bo removed), after cutting or chopping up; add two or three ounces of butter; for three largo heads, four ounces will be wanted; cover, and sweat for a quarter of an hour; the butter must not brown, and the pan must be shaken often. Then cover with good white stock or milk, cook to a pulp, and rub through a sieve. An onion or a bay leaf may be used to flavour the puree,Universal cookery book. G78 and a few white peppercorns and a little salt should be added. Now return it to the pan, thicken with a few spoonfuls of good white sauce, or with cream and a little arrowroot. It should ho delicate both in colour and flavour. [Sec Celeuy and Celery Sauce; the latter, made thicker, serves as a puree.) Celery with Iced Sauces.— {See the recipes for asparagus and other vegetables in this chapter.) Celery with Rich Hot Sauces.—The sauces suitable for this are the same as for asparagus, or sea- lcale. The more delicate the sauce, the better will the flavour of the celery predominate. Chartreuse of Vegetables.— Dishes of this sort are very artistic in appearance, and may be made in a number of ways. Wo give directions for a cold and a hot one. The principal thing to remember is that whatever is used for the filling must bo of a stiff nature, that there may be no super- fluous liquid to run, and spoil the appearance of the dish ; for although called a chartreuse of vegetables, the interior is composed of moat, or game, or poultry. First a hot one, which is the more troublesome of the two. Take a plain mould, and line it with buttered paper; do not spare the butter, and see that every part is covered with it. Now take some cooked vegetables of two colours; they must be rather under- than overdone; carrots and tur- nips, or artichoke bottoms and carrots, or the stems of a cabbago or lettuce can be used with some carrot. Then measure the depth of the tin, and cut the vegetables either into long strips to fit it, or make square blocks, which are prettier; about an inch square is the size for a mould of three to four inches in depth ; arrange so that the pieces shall just lit the mould. Then place them in close together, alter- nately, the closer the better, so that they do not break ; go on the same way until the mould is full, the colours alternating each row, so that the whole looks like a chessboard. The filling may be any meat that has been nicely cooked and seasoned—poultry or game, or sweetbread with veal, &c.; but let it bo noatly cut up in rather small pieces, and dip each into a little thick gravy, or, better still, into glaze, as this will hold the whole together, and if the meat has been braised it will not be dry. Before putting in the meat the top of the mould is to be coated, and for this a green puree is often used; one of spinach looks nice, or cabhage does, or the appearance is improved, if the mould be a round one, by using a green pur6e with one of carrots, hoth very thick, and putting them in in four quarters. Brush over with glaze before the meat goes in, then, after the meat, put another layer of the puree. The tin is now set in the oven until hot through, the contents turned out, and the paper carefully removed. The process is really much simpler than it appears on paper; hut it requires patience. The base of the mould can be garnished with some little heaps of vegetables in blocks, or they may he in shreds or fancy shapes, and gravy can be served in a tureen. We may add that a very elegant but costly dish is made from a combination of truffles and carrots, or truffles and turnips. For a cold dish, proceed as follows:— Line a mould with aspic as pale as possible, and arrange the vegetables in the same way; or, if strips are pre- ferred, there can he three colours— say, carrots, turnips, and either of the green vegetables above mentioned; instead of turnips, hard whites of egg can be used, and these need not be so thick as for the hot dish. Set these with another layer of aspic. For the filling, we suggest cither of tho following, and there are dozens more : A mixture of macedoines and minced chicken, moistened with a little good white sauce and enough aspic to set it. Or, mayonnaise aspic in place of tho sauce and aspic. Or game with the same mixture, or sweetbread, or veal— the poultry of course being omitted. A glanceat thesection on Cold Entrees will suggest other fillings. The top ofDRESSED VEGETABLES. 679 the mould may be lined with aspic only, and the filling allowed to show through; or it can bo coatod with a puree such as tomato, or anything that will form a nice contrast to the sides. For a very superior dish of the sort, some asparagus stalks (with the points removed) and strips of tomato look nice for the side decoration. The garnish should con- sist of the asparagus points, with chopped aspic and tomato chips. For a more elaborate garnish, use a greater variety of vegetables and aspic of two colours. Cost of these dishes is very variable. Note. —In hot weather, set the mould on ice after lining, and again after filling, and let it be quite firm before turning out. This principle may be applied to small moulds with equal success. Chestnut Puree.—For a very good one, see the recipe for Beef with Chestnuts, page 236. Or follow the directions for either of the Chestnut Sauces, decreasing the amount of liquid. "When a rich white puree is required, add eggs, &e., as for the rich potato puree (page 689). Chicory a la Cream.—Whore chicory is cultivated for the table, there are many ways of preparing it. A favourite dish in Normandy is made by boiling, pressing, and chopping it; then putting it in a saucepan with a little butter, in which it is tossed until the butter coats it. A little hot cream is then added (or good white sauce takes its place), and the chicory served on hot toast. Cucumber a l'Espagnole.— Required : a medium-sized cucumber, stock, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 3d.—more or less, according to season. Peel the cucumber, cut it in pieces two inches long and an inch or less wide; remove the seeds, sprinkle with salt, place between two plates for an hour, then drain. Cover with good brown stock, and cook gently until done, then pile on a dish, and pour somo brown sauce ovor; a spoonful of sherry is an improvement. Cucumber a la Poulette.— Required : two small, quickly-grown cucumbers, seasoning, stock, butter, cream, and eggs as under. Cost, about Is. Cut the cucumbers as above, or in slices half an inch thick if preferred; cook until half done in a little water seasoned with salt and lemon juice, then drain. Blend in a saucepan an ounce and a half of butter and an ounce of flour; add a pint of nice white stock, stir to the boil, and simmer for a quarter of an hour with the cucum- bers, or more or less as required. When tender, add the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of thick cream, and the juice of half a lemon with seasoning. Re-heat and serve. Cucumbers with Onions.— Required: cucumber, onions, stock, glaze, seasoning, thickening, and toma- toes. Cost, about Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. This is a good ragout; allow a pound of cucumber to half a pound of mild onions (or half shalots), other in- gredients as below. The onions are to be shredded and fried lightly. Peel the cucumbers, and slice thinly ; add them to the onions in a clean stewpan, pour over enough stock (No. 6 or 7) to cover; add a bit of glaze the size of a nut to every gill of stock nsed, and simmer until nearly done. Towards the end, season with lemon juice and tarragon or tomato vinegar, salt and pepper, and thicken with brown roux. Lay a slice of fried bread on the dish for serving ; put the ragout on, and put a border of onions fried as above, mixed with Tomato Chips. Note.—In such dishes, it is advisablo to draw off some of tho cucumber juice. This eats well with many “ made dishes ” of meat. Cucumbers with Sauce Verte.—Required: cucumber, force- meat, sauce, &c., ns below. Cost, varies with tho stuffing; from 2s. to 2s. Cd. inclusive is tho average.UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 680 This is a very nice entree. Stuff a nice straight cuocmber with a quenelle mixture, after taking out the seeds; or use a very good forcemeat or sausage meat of a delicate kind. Tie it up and simmer in enough white stock to cover until done. Remember to make the meat hot before using it, otherwise it takes a time to heat through, and may not be done when the cucumber is. This is done by putting it in a jar, and setting in a pan of boiling water over the fire for a few minutes. Take up and pour Sauce Yeiite (page 104) over —it should be thick enough to mask it; then put a little good white sauce round, and sprinkle with a small quantity of the peel of the cucumber that has been very finely chopped. For such a dish it is more suitable than parsley. In peeling the cucumber, cut as thinly and as evenly as possible. White fish quenelle mixture is some- times used for the interior, then a few shrimps or prawns can be placed at intervals round the white sauce, and the dish has a very pretty appearance. Cucumbers, Stuffed. — Any delicately-flavoured forcemeat may be used, and' the cucumbers treated as directed for vegetable marrows. They may be cooked in any approved fashion; but one of the nicest ways is to fry lightly, then stew in gravy. There are two ways of stuffing them : they may be cut through lengthwise, then tied together, or pieces may be cut from the sides and the seeds removed, and the pieces replaced; when this is done, strips of wide tape should be tied round the replaced portions. For white dishes, it is a good plan to steam until nearly done, after stuffing, then finish off in any white sauce or thickened white stock. Curried Vegetables, Good,— Required : vegetables, curry powder, and other adjuncts as below. Cost, variable, about Is., more or less, according to season, for the following quantities. Take some vegetables cut into dice, enough to fill a pint measure; carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, lettuce stalks, and a morsel of parsnip, with some cauliflower sprigs, and French beans or peas, form a good mixture; but there are others equally good. To the above quantity add a teaspoonful of curry powder, and brown in a little olive oil, then stir in a grated apple, or some rhubarb or gooseberries, or a little tamarind chutney, or some preserved tamarinds; in the latter case tie them in muslin, that the stones and stalks may be kept out. Add a gill, or rather more, of stock No. 11 or 12, and cook until soft and the stock nearly dried up. A bay leaf improves this, so does a hint of garlic; season to taste, and add a little lemon juice. This may be eaten as it is, or served with rice, and garnished with eggs and cut lemons. The stalks of lettuce, &c., should always be parboiled for curries. (See Index for other Curries.) Note The wateriness of the vege- tables must be considered, and the amount of stock increased or reduced accordingly. Flageolet Purde.—The flageo- lets sold in tins make excellent purees, and, being already cooked, want nothing more than heating and sieving. They are then ready, and may be finished off precisely the same as peas ; or the recipes given for the dried green haricots under Pulse can be followed. The beans may be served whole just as peas or French beans. These are exceedingly useful, as they are so readily converted into a puree or soup; for the latter, see page 45. They make good salads, for which see next chapter. French Beans d, la Crdine.— The beans should be cut very thinly, and carefully boiled until almost done; then drain them most thoroughly. For twTo to three pounds of beans, put a good tablespoonful of white roux in a stewpan, with half a gill of veal or chicken stock; stir to the boil, add half a pint of thick cream, and again bring to the boil; mix in the beans very carefully, and put the lid on the pan; before serving, grate in a morselDressed vegetables. 681 of lemon rind, ns much ns would fill a saltspoon, and squeeze in a little juice ; season with salt and pepper, and a hint of nutmeg. Serve hot, and garnish with dice-3haped croutons; some as a border round the beans, and a little pile on the top. French Beans A la Fran- ijaise.—Required : beans, butter, sea- soning, and gravy. Cost, about 6d. to Sd. Cut and boil one pojind of French beans; drain well, and put them into a stewpan over the fire to dry; shake the pan that they may not bum. When quite free from the water, add three ounces of fresh butter, the juice of half a lemon, pepper, salt, and a table- spoonful of good gravy. Keep shaking the stewpan until the beans are quite hot, and serve quickly. French Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Boil some beans as usual, but drain them with care; if moist, the dish suffers. Keep them hot, and put in a saucepan a gill of Sauce Maitre d'Hotel (page 103) for each pound ; stir them in, and let them get hot. If a thin sauce is liked, add a little cream. The beans can be put in a dish, and the sauce poured over the top. Thus served, they are often garnished with eggs. Cost, as above, for a pound of beans. French Beans a la Pro- vengale. — Required : beans, oil, seasoning, and onions. Cost, about 6d., if a pound of beans be used. Fry a few thinly-sliced onions brown in oil; add beans that have been boiled as usual, and a seasoning of chopped thyme, parsley, cloves, and bay leaf. When done, add a little vinegar or lemon juice, and dish. French Beans, Stewed.—Re- quired : beans, stock, thickening, and seasoning. Cost, for a pound of beans, about 6d. This is a good dish to serve with mutton or venison cutlets. Boil and drain the beans well. Put them in a clean stewpan, with a little strong stock from mutton or venison bones and meat, to which no vegetables have been added. This is to just cover them; add a tablespoonful of brown roux, and glaze tho size of a nut to each half pint; season with salt and cajrenne, boil up, and simmer for a few minutes. Green Peas d la Creme.— Boil a good pint or so of newly-shelled, fresh young peas in the usual way. Drain them in a colander until quite dry. Mix an ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of flour smoothly together, over the fire; add a quarter of a pint of good, sweet cream; when it boils, put in the peas for two or three minutes, and sure as hot as possible. Cost, about 9d. Green Peas with Egg Cut- lets.—Required: peas, eggs, croutons, and sauce as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. or more. Take a quart of green peas, plainly boiled; pile them in the centre of the dish. Arrange round them some slices of hard-boiled eggs, cut lengthwise, and crofitons of the same shape, the two being placed alternately. Make half a pint of Dutch Sauce, and put it round the cutlets. Serve very hot. Another way.—Lay each slice of egg on one of hot ham, lean, and the same shape ; place as above, and then put an outer ring of peas, and pour the sauce over them. Put little heaps of dice-shaped croutons at the ends and sides of the dish, and a few on tho centre pile of peas. This is a very- pretty dish, as well as a tasty one. Green Peas, Flemish.— Required: bacon, butter, stock, let- tuces, seasoning, and peas as below. Cost, about Is. 6d., but vni-iable. This is recommended as a decided change from the ordinary methods and very economical, when it is considered that it will take the place of a joint. Take first half a pound or three- quarters of nice streaky bacon, neatly trimmed, sliced, and cut into inch squares, or rather less. Just brown these in butter and put them aside. Into the same pan with the butter putG82 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. half a pint of any plain stock, or bono liquor or moat water—i.e. from boiled moat—will answer. Lot this boil, then put in two or three lettuces broken up, or cut into coarse shavings, with a little salt; boil for ten to twenty minutes, then add a pint and a half of young green peas with a pinch of sugar, and cook uncovered for about twenty minutes more. If the lettuces are tough, they should cook longer before the peas go in. Shortly before serving, thicken to tasto and add the bacon; serve altogether very hot. Although it is an innovation, we can recommend the addition of rice or almost any other cereal to the above, when it becomes a vegetable dish, both nutritious and palatable, made savoury by the bacon. Green Peas a la Fran5ai.se. —Required : a pint and a half of young green peas, an ounce and a half of flour, an ounce of butter, eight to twelve button onions, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. Blend the flour and butter in a stewpan; add three gills of plain white stock, and boil up; then put in a sprig of parsley, a pinch of salt and white sugar, the onions carefully peeled, and a lettuce or two cut in fine strips ; add the peas, cover the pan, and cook softly for twenty-five to thirty-five minutes over a gentle fire. Before serving, the sprig of parsley is to be taken out, and some chopped parsley, with a pat of butter or a spoonful of cream, stirred in. A variation of this is made by using a grated carrot in place of the onions, or of part of them. Another way.—Take freshly-gathered young peas, and put into plenty of cold spring water. For a peck, take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and work them well with the hand until they stick together. Drain them in a colander, and put them into a saucepan, with a little pepper and salt, and a wineglassful of water, if necessary; but young peas seldom require water. Lot them simmer very gently for forty minutes, or until the peas are tender; add two large lumps of sugar dipped in water, and, when they have been taken off the fire a minute or two, the yolk of an egg beaten with a dessert- spoonful of cold water, or, for richer dishes, veal gravy is used. The above can be altered in numerous ways; herbs of various kinds may bo added; chives, leeks, or shalots may take the place of the vegetables named, and a little thick bechamel may be used instead of eggs or cream at the finish. Green Peas au Gratin.— There are a number of ways of pre- paring this dish. An Austrian one is very good; the peas should be young, and boiled nicely, then laid in a flat fireproof cliina dish, after mixing them with butter, and buttering the dish. The surface of the peas is masked with fine bread-crumbs, brushed with oiled butter, and baked a golden brown. This can go to table as it is, or be garnished with rounds of cooked ham, just brushed with thin glaze. Cost, varies with the garnish. Another way.—Butter and strew the bottom of a dish with crumbs; sprinkle a little chopped parsley or chopped cooked mushrooms over, then add a thin layer of peas, more mushrooms or parsley, then pour a very little cream over all just to moiston ; or slightly thickened pale stock answers. Coat and finish as above directed. For Peas and Chicken au Gratin, take some minced chicken, with a fourth its weight of ham, and moiston as above. Then put between two layers of peas. This is a very nice savoury; it should be finished off as above directed. Green Peas Puree.—Required: peas, seasoning, butter, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. to 8d. To get this in perfection, cook the peas in butter; allow two ounces to the pint after shelling, and give them a rinse in cold water, then drain them at once. Cook them as slowly as possible for half an hour or until done, a pinch of sugar and salt should be put683 DRESSED VEGETABLES. in, also a sprig of mint if it is liked, and a morsel of spinach or some parsley juice will improve the colour. Take them up when they are soft, and rub through a hair sieve. Put back in the pan, season to taste, and add a very little thick cream, a tablespoonful or so of the yolk of an egg, or thick white sauce. Beat the puree until hot and smooth, add colouring if needed, then pile it up in the centre of a dish of cutlets, &e., or use it from a bag with a pipe for garnishing purposes. Tinned peas require heating in the butter, and are then easily converted into a puree. It goes without saying that peas cooked as described are very delicious served whole. For ordinary purees, boiled peas are sieved, then finished off as described. When a little additional flavour is required, a spoonful or two of stock is added to the peas at starting. Haricot Puree.—(See Flageo- let Puree.) Haricots with. Curried Macedoines.—Required : haricots, stock, sauce, macedoines, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. For a good-sized dish, boil half a pound of split white haricots in white stock (see page 576). Put them round a hot dish to form a border in the same way that rice is used, and fill the centre with a tin of macedoines that have been mixed with a gill of Curry Sauce. In making the sauce, use the liquor from the tin. Sprinkle the haricots with saffron shreds and a dust of coralline pepper. Put three hard- boiled eggs in slices round the haricots; or use the sieved yolk of one to sprinkle here and there on the top, and put the chopped white in the macedoines. The sauce for this dish is to be as good as possible. Iced Vegetables.—Vegetables maybe dressed with butter or any rich sauce while warm, then, when cool, put in an ice cave until cold, and served on a dish with a lace paper. Or the sauce may be iced, and sent to table in a boat—not frozen into shape like the iced sauces given in Coin Sauces, but simply made icy cold. When butter is used for the dressing, it should be clarified, oiled, and seasoned to taste, and the vegetables w’ell coated with it. A very pretty way of serving is to break up some pure ice, fill a dish, and set it in the centre of the dish of vegetables. The one containing the ice should be smaller and higher ; the one for the vegetables should be an entree dish or any other of a similar shape. A specimen glass, containing a few delicate ferns or other greenery, set in the centre of the ice, adds to the effect. Note. — When no ice cave is at hand, other methods of icing must be followed. (See the chapter on Ices.) Macedoines in Cases with Asparagus and Macaroni.— Required: a tin of macedoines, or a proportionate amount of fresh vege- tables, six to eight ounces of macaroni, eight or nine little cases as below, and some asparagus and sauce. Cost, about Is. 9d., exclusive of asparagus and sauce. Take some rich potato pastry for the cases (page 648). Line some deep patty pans and bake carefully. Cases of rice or fried bread may be used if preferred. The macedoines are to bo heated, and put in the cases after a little sauce has been put in, and this may be of any kind that is usually served with vegetables. The asparagus should be boiled and arranged in the centre of the macaroni, and that is first to be cooked nicely and coated with sauce or heated cream. (For the precise arrangement of the dish, see Coloured Plate, No. 6.) A tureen of the sauce should be sent to table. This dish may be varied by using rice or other grain instead of macaroni, and sea-kale or celery in place of asparagus; in either case, a little green puree of some kind should be placed between tho centre vegetable and tho macaroni. Note.—The main point in tho pre- paration of this and all such dishes is to so time tho cooking of the various materials that thoy may bo served hot,UNIVEESAIi COOKERY BOOK. <384 as, if allowed to become semi-cold, the result is disappointing both with regard to flavour and appearance. Mushroom Croquettes. —Required: half a pound of flap mushrooms, bread-crumbs, eggs, and seasoning as below. Cost, about 7d. to 9d. Prepare and cut the mushrooms into dice; add an ounce of butter, and cook until soft, then add while warm enough bread-crumbs, or half crumbs and half bread panada, to make a stiff paste. Season with salt and pepper, and a morsel of chopped parsley and grated nutmeg; but do not destroy the mushi'oom flavour. When cold, mould into balls the size of chestnuts, and finish off like the asparagus cakes in this chapter. The above is a vegetarian dish ; for a more savoury one, add a few ounces of chopped ham or bacon, or a little cooked game is a very good addition; so is a morsel of liver, either poultry or calf’s. Always stew down the washed parings for flavouring any gravy that may bo served with little savouries of this class; they contain a good deal of flavour. If no gravy is served, they come in for other dishes. Another way.—Take some of the rich mushroom puree given in this chapter, and add a beaten egg and a few bread-crumbs to each half pint. Cut some little rounds of fat bacon, two for each croquette, and lay a small quantity of the mushroom preparation on half the number ; then cover with the rest of the rounds, so that there is no fear of the mince escaping. A little of either of the meats above named can be added to the mixture. Make them a good shape, and roll in crushed vermicelli after egging and crumb- ing ; a good coating of egg should be given after the crumbs. By talcing this precaution with regard to the coating, the interior mince may be made soft, and will eat much nicer than if stiff. Serve on a dish paper, and garnish with fried parsley or with fancy croutons. Mushroom Purse, Brown.— See the recipe for Baow.v Mushroom Sauce on page 97. By making as there directed, adding only as much brown sauce as will make the mixture as thick as good onion or celery puree —or, to bo more explicit, it should just drop from the spoon—a very nice puree is obtained, which is suitable for piling in the centre of a dish of cutlets,&c. But for a puree to be served in a sauce boat, or for pouring round a dish of meat of any kind, it should be rather thinner than this ; the manner of service must always determine the precise consist- ence of all purees. By many persons the flavour of the mushroom in its native simplicity is desired; then a very nice puree is made by sweating the mushrooms in butter, two ounces to the pound; when nearly done, a tablespoonful of good brown stock may be put in, but it must not be flavoured with other vegetables ; in such cases, a dash of extract of meat and a morsel of glaze come in handy; but this addition will spoil it for many, and nothing more than a little salt and popper and a few drops of lemon juice are wanted; the butter should brown unless a drop of browning is added. Grated ham (and sometimes beef as well) is added to purees of the more savoury kinds. Cost, about Is., when a pound of mushrooms are used. Mushroom Puree, White.— The thing to avoid here is the colouring of the mushrooms; this is especially necessary when they are to be mixed with chicken or oysters for patties and other dishes. The whitest mushrooms should be chosen, and perfect washing is needed. The addition of lemon juice helps to whiten as well as give flavour ; and the pan must be very clean. The mushrooms are to be added to the butter as soon as it is melted, and two ounces to the pound, unless cream is added, is a fair amount to allow; or a snoonful of white stock and less butter may be used ; then, as soon as they begin to draw down, a little cream should be added (see White MushroomG85 DRESSED VEGETABLES Saucb on page 97 for further dotuils). To these purees, some finely minced thicken or veal is often added if the puree is to bo used for the garnish- ing of other vegetables of an insipid kind. A pound of mushrooms, a couple of ounces of chicken, the same of butter, an ounce of fine bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of cream, the same of bechamel, and a little seasoning mako a very delicious puree ; the addition of a suspicion of scalded onion or shalot is a matter of taste, and the same may be said of parsley and nutmeg. This, by reducing or increasing the crumbs, is suited to a number of purposes, and is referred to in many of our recipes as Kick 'White SIushboom Puree. Cost, as in the preceding recipe. Mushrooms, Baked, & la Mascotte.—Required: mushroom puree as below, flap mushrooms, eggs, crumbs, seasoning, oil, sauce, and crou- tons. Cost, about Is. 3d. to Is. Gd., according to season. First make a puree of chopped mush- rooms, half their measure of chopped ham, thyme, and parsley to season, with a little black pepper and salt and a dash of grated lemon rind; this is to be stirred in a stewpan over the fire, with enough melted ham or bacon fat to keep it from burning; when cool, two raw eggs are to be beaten in the mixture. About half a pint of the puree will make a nice-sized dish. Then take some flap mushrooms, about the size of the top of a tumbler, and prepare them in the usual way; the stems can be used up in the foregoing puree. Put in them a few fried crumbs, then some of the puree, making it high but smooth; add crumbs to cover, and bake in a flat fire-proof ch;na dish, basting with a little oil now and then, for about twenty minutes. At the moment of serving, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the mushrooms, and garnish with fancy croutons that are glazed and covered with chopped ham, mixed to paste with thick brown sauce. This is a very tasty dish. Mushrooms, Braised and Glazed.—This is a good way to cook mushrooms for garnishing purposes. Tako them even in size, selecting large or small as best suited to the dish. Seo that they are very carefully dried, then fry them in a little oil or butter to a nice brown until partly cooked; then drain and put them in a stewpan, with a little good, strong brown stock or gravy, just to keep them from burn- ing ; finish tho cooking, basting a few times, then dish and keep the mush- rooms hot while the stock is reduced by quick boiling; dissolve a morsel of glaze in it and pour it over the mush- rooms. If not convenient to braise tho mushrooms separately, they can be so cooked with any meat with which they are to be served ; then taken up in time and brushed over with glaze and put in the oven or before the fire for a minute; if wanted very brown, give a second coating. Baked or fried mush- rooms can be glazed in the latter way. Cost, about Is. inclusive, for a pound of mushrooms when plentiful. Mushrooms with Fine Herbs. — Required : mushrooms, herbs, seasoning, oil, garlic, onions, and bread-crumbs. Cost, if made from half a pound of mushrooms, about Gd. to 8d. Take some large fresh mushrooms, peel and wipe them, break them up into pieces, lay them on a dish, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, olive oil and chopped garlic; leave them for an hour or two. Chop some onions and parsley, fry them a little, then fry the mushrooms in tho same pan, first skimming out tho onions and parsley ; take a fire proof dish, press in the mushrooms, &c., smooth them, then pour over the oil in which they first s >akcd ; cover with bread-crumbs, and heat tho dish through. When very hot, send to table, with some lemon juice sprinkled over last thing. This is an Italian dish, and very savoury. Good oil is needed, or it will he a complete failure. Instead of using garlic, it will bo enough to rub tho dish with a morsel, or add a drop of686 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. garlic vinegar to the lemon juice, for some tastes. Mushrooms au Gratin. —Required: mushrooms, onion, herbs, seasoning, bread, &c., as below. Cost, from 9d. upwards on an average. This is a very good dish, and may he served as an entree. Flap or cup mushrooms are best, and should be about two to two and a half inches in diameter. Peel with care, so as not to break the mushrooms, and scoop out the inside of the cup, to make it hollow. The stalks are to be cut out quite close to tho cup ; then peel the stalks and chop them up with the scooped-out part, and add a bit of chopped onion the size of a walnut for a dozen mush- rooms; put in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a fourth as much fresh thyme, or half as much dried thyme, and fry the mixture in a frying-pan, with a little butter, for a minute; season with salt and pepper and a dash of grated lemon peel or juice, then stir in some fine bread-crumbs to make a moist paste, and fill the cups with tho mix- ture, making it smooth but dome- shaped. Then dredge some fine pale raspings over, and bake in a tin, with a little oil or butter, until the mush- rooms are done; but take care they do not break. Take them up with a slice and drain from the fat; put them on a hot dish and garnish with fried parsley. For this, and all dishes that are served as entrees, use an entree dish if con- venient ; or one of plain white is the next best, and the fancy-shaped ones look nice ; many answer for salads or hot dishes of vegetables. The seasoning for the mushrooms can be varied to taste; some chopped ham or remnants of game or poultry may be put in, and other herbs than those named. The filling is often fried in scraped bacon fat, and some will like a more highly-seasoned mix- ture than others; the principle is tho thing, and there are few more delicious dishes if ordinary care be taken. Mushrooms a la Merritt.— Required: mushrooms, brains, butter, seasoning, ham, sauce, &c., as below. Cost, about 10d., exclusive of the brains. Take somo mushrooms, even in size, about the circumference of the top of a sherry-glass; lay them in a buttered tin, season them a little, and cover with a buttered paper; cook in a moderate oven. Boil some brains, calf’s or lamb’s (see Index), and beat them up while hot; to about two large tablespoonfuls add a pinch of salt and cayenne, a salt- spoonful of grated lemon peel, tho same of chopped thyme and parsley, a table- spoonful of chopped ham (cooked), a dash of French mustard, and a table- spoonful of rich white sauce or cream. The stalks of tho mushrooms should be chopped up and added to this mix- ture. Fill the mushrooms while hot, making tho surface level (not convex), sprinkle with fried bread-crumbs, and put in the centre a fancy-shaped morsel of cooked ham. Place them on a tin, and set for a few minutes in the oven over a second tin of hot water. Arrange nicely on a dish. Should any of the brain mixture be left over, spread somo tiny croutons with it, and dot them about the dish. The above mixture wall fill about nine mushrooms. Mushrooms a la Parmesan. — Required : mushrooms, seasoning, parsley, cheese, sauce, and bread- crumbs. Cost, about Is. inclusive. Take, for a nice dish, about nine flap mushrooms, of medium size, and pre- pare them carefully; pour a little oil and lemon juice over, with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and cover them up for an hour. Then pour off the oil into a baking-tin (it should just cover the bottom), lay the mushrooms in a single layer, and bake until done, bast- ing sometimes; then put them in a second tin (without oil), dredge with grated Parmesan, and give them a minute more in tho oven. Dredge again with fried bread-crumbs, and serve hot, each on a crouton a little larger than tho mushrooms, and gar- nish with fried parsley. If sauce is served, it should be a good CheeseDRESSED VEGETABLES. 687 Sauce ; or rich Melted Butter, fla- voured with lemon juice and grated cheese, is very good; any good whito sauce may he finished off in the same way. (See Mushrooms a la Soyer, on this page.) Mushrooms sur le Plat.— Required : mushrooms, seasoning, some croutons, and any pastry trimmings. Cost, for a dish of four to six ounces, about 4d. when plentiful. This is one of the best of the mush- room dishes, and the trouble is not great. Put small flap mushrooms on a plate that will stand the fire, and lay a morsel of butter in each; add salt and pepper, a squeeze of lemon, and a drop of water, and then press a strip of paste round the rim of the plate; the mushrooms must be in a single layer only. Press a second plate over, pressing it well into the paste; this is to keep in the flavour. Then bake in a good oven for twenty to thirty minutes. Take the top plate off and remove the rim of paste; put in the place of it some croutons, of any desired shape and size, sufficient to cover the rim of the plate. Any trimmings of pastry answer for this; if none are handy, a morsel of flour and water paste should be made for the purpose. The strip is to come well over the edge of the lower plate, and should be thick, so that when the upper one is pressed in, it may not cut through it. Mushrooms a la Soyer. — Required: mushrooms, toast, cream, and seasoning. Cost, about 4d. to 6d. on an average. Toast a square slice of bread to a delicate brown, lay it on a dish, and put on it four freshly-gathered mush- rooms. The toast should be spread with Devonshire cream, and the mush- rooms should be filled with it; or, if this is not at hand, ordinary cream or butter may be used in place of it. A little salt and white pepper are to bo dredged over the mushrooms. Next put a common tumbler over each mush- room, leaving a little &pacc between, and sot the dish beforo the fire, turning it about continually, that the glasses may not break. In about twenty minutes the mushrooms should be done; the glasses will be filled with vapour, and a minute should elapso after removal from the fire before they are taken off the bread. This dish is attributed to M. Soyer, who is said to have invented it while visiting Devonshire. Onions, Fried, Superior.— Required: onions, crumbs, flour, eggs, stock, &c. Cost, from 6d. per pound, inclusive. These are nice as a separate dish, or with meats of a savoury kind; small onions are best for the purpose. Peel and parboil in water, then drain and dry, and cook in a little brown stock until done; again dry, and leave for some time to get cold; then dip them in flour, then in beaten egg, and next into fine biscuit-crumbs. A few seconds in hot fat will crisp and brown them. In many cases the stock they were boiled in comes in for gravy to serve with them, or it can go into the stock- pot or be used for soups, &c. Onions fried thus eat well with sausages, kidneys, &c. Onions, Glazed. — The onions may be fried in the usual way (see p. 636), or they can be stewed in a very little brown gravy after parboiling. They should be taken up at the last, and kept hot while the gravy is boiled fast with a little glaze; it should look like thin treacle, and stick to them when poured over; or ordinary glaze, as used for meats, can be brushed over them. Remember a pinch of sugar in frying the onions. A little soy is often added to the glaze for onions. Onion Puree, Rich.—(SeeOsmx Sauce, page 98 ; follow the recipe for the “richer” sauce, but use loss liquid, as tho puree should be thick; about a third loss milk will bo right. See also Sauoe Sourish.) This makes a very good puree by reducing tho cream, stock, and bechamel, or increasing tho onions in proportion, Tho recipesUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK 688 abovo referred to give full instruc- tions for the preparation of thvonions; but it is well to remember that a puree cannot be too white, and it can hardly be too mild for serving with very delicate meats. Onion Puree, Rich, Brown. -—Fry some onions in thin slicos, and chop them; let them drain well, then simmer them in good brown stock, to cover, until they can be sieved. Put back in the pan, and add brown roux and a little glaze or extract of meat; boil for a few minutes ; it should be so thick that the spoon will almost stgnd in it, and must be constantly stirred. It may be made thinner and served as Brown Onion Sauce. For a piquant puree, add a little flavoured vinegar of any kind. A small proportion of celery is thought an improvement by some, and a bay leaf is often added. Onions with Macaroni.—Re- quired : onions, macaroni, glaze, gravy, cheese, croutons, &c., as below. Cost, about 4d. per pound inclusive. Select onions equal in size, about four or five to the pound is large enough ; bake them until tender (page 635), then twist some hoiled macaroni round and round, beginning at the bottom, until all but the top is covered. Before doing this brush the onions over with glaze, and when done coat the macaroni with glaze or good brown gravy. Servo on a flat dish, with a round crouton on the top of each onion, and some fancy-shaped croutons, sprinkled with grated cheese, about the dish. In preparing this a little care is needed to make the macaroni adhere. While twisting with one hand, it must be pressed into shape with the other; and it must not be over-cooked, or is liable to break. Another way of finishing off consists in dredging with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, after brushing over with butter, then brown- ing- up in a sharp oven. These may bo served alone, or with moat. Onions, Stuffed.—Required: onions, butter, gravy, forcemeat, bread- crumbs, and apple sauce. Cost, about 10d., for a dish of a pound or rather more. A very nice dish is mado by taking the centres from some parboiled Spanish onions, and filling tho centres with sausage meat, flavoured with sage; then put them in a baking-tin, with a little brown gravy, and cook them until nearly done, and the sausago meat is cooked. Pour the gravy off, and finish the cooking, basting with a little butter ; then dish the onions, and serve with tho gravy, thickened and boiled up, round them, and a tureen of apple sauce. Before putting the sausage meat in the onions, some bread-crumbs should bo put in. The cores of the onions may bo fried and put about the dish, if not wanted for any other purpose. Another way.—Use largo onions, par- boil and core them, and put half a sheep’s kidney in each; chop up the onion cores and add to some brown gravy, in which the onions may be stewed, or they may be baked brown. Many cheese preparations may be used for stuffing onions. (See Cheese.) Potato Border, Rich.—Re- quired : potatoes, butter, cream, eggs, and seasoning. Cost, 3d. to 4d. for a small border. Bake the potatoes in thoir skins, and sieve them while hot. For every potato of medium size (such as go four to six to the pound), allow a quarter of an ounce of butter, or a proportionate quantity of cream, a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and nutmeg (and for very savoury dishes cayenne) ; and for every four potatoes allow the yolk of an egg. To be well beaten : the mix- ture should be a smooth, rich-looking paste; the finer the sieve the better. This can be used for baking in a bor- der mould, or it can be moulded by hand when quite cold on a board ; the less flour the bettor, just a dust is wanted. For ordinary borders, roll with tho hands into a round as thick as a thin rolling-pin, or, say, tho cir- cumference of a half crown. Join theDKESSED VEGETABLES. 689 ends very neatly ; it is well to rub them over with egg-yolk, and then make an oval or round border as do- sired. It can bo marked with a fork, then egged over, and baked a nico brown ; or it may be baked minus ogg, and glazed afterwards. If more convenient, the border can be flattened, to look as if baked in a plain border mould. This is best done with a palette knife, dipped in warm water, before egging the border. Potato Cakes, Rich.—Prepare a mixture as for borders, flatten into thin round cakes of any desired size, then finish as for croquettes below. Potato Croquettes, Rich.— The preparation is the same as for Potato Border, Rich. The mixture is then made into cork or ball shapes, and may be fried, after egging and crumbing, and served plainly; or herbs or grated cheese may be added. Another way is to hollow the centre, and insert a little rich, thick mince; various recipes are given for rissoles and patties (see Index); or any purees of game or liver may be used. The ball is then made compact, and well coated with egg; a second coating is desirable, and they are nicer if left for an hour before frying. The garnish should be fried parsley, and a hot dish paper or serviette placed under them. The best kinds are served as entrees. Potato Puree, Rich, Creamy. —Required: for each half-dozen pota- toes (about the size of a large duck egg) one ounce of butter, a little salt and pepper, a large tablespoonful of cream, and the same of milk, and a dust of cayenne and nutmeg. Cost, about 3d. to 4d. Bake the potatoes in their skins, and sieve while hot. Melt the butter in the milk, add it while warm, then put in the cream, cold, and the seasoning, and beat well to make the mixture both light and white. This is useful in many ways. It can be forced from a bag with a plain pipe, or a leaf or rose pipe, or piled up as a pyramid in the middle of a dish of cutlets, &c. It does well for masking anything in scallop shells. Potato Puree, Rich, with Eggs.—Omit the milk and cream, add the yolks of two eggs, with other ingredients as above, then beat the whites stiffly, and stir them in at the last minute. This will be a rich colour, and will rise considerably if put on to a hot dish and set in the oven for a short time. It should brown delicately. If to be served in a vegetable dish, the dish or plate on which it has been baked may be set in it if small enough ; but if for an entree dish (with meat, &c.) the pyra- mid must be slipped on to it by means of a vegetable slice or palette knife. In forming the above for the oven, use a bag and pipe, or arrange it in spoonfuls, tapering towards the top. Cost, a little more than the above. Potato Pyramid, Italian Method. — Required : potatoes, croutons, cheese, gravy, butter, eggs, &c., as below. Cost, about 8d. Cook and slice a pound of pota- toes. Put some croQtons round a dish to form a border, or make a ring crouton. Put in a saucepan a tablespoouful of veal gravy, an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces and a half of butter, a large table- spoonful of lemon juice, a good seasoning of salt, pepper, and nut- meg, with the yolks of three esrgs. Whisk over the fire until hot and thick, and nearly boiling. Form a pyramid, pouring some of the sauce over each layer of potatoes. On the top put grated cheese, and bread- crumbs over the last layer of sauce; bake a nice brown, and serve very hot. This is a very good dish. Potatoes ilia Bonne Bouche. —Required: half a dozen medium- sizod potatoes, a shalot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a fourth as much celery-salt, the same of powdered thyme, a little tarragon, two ounces of butter, seasoning to taste, and tho juice of a lemon. Cost, ubout 6d. Steam tho potatoes until throe-690 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. fourths done, slice them and squeeze a little of the lemon juice over, add the herbs and a dash of seasoning; leave them to got quite cold, taking care to cover them. Chop the shalot and sweat it in the butter, then add the potatoes, and shake the pan until the contents are cooked; add more lemon juice and seasoning at the end. These are very good alone, or with steaks and chops; they should be pale in colour, and the shalot may be kept out if preferred. Sometimes a hint of shalot juice (obtained by pounding) or a few drops of any flavoured vinegar is used to heighten the flavour, and by some lemon juice only is employed. Potatoes a la Duchesse.— (See the recipe for Rich Potato Pukee, with Eggs, on page 689.) Make some in the same way, but add an extra white of egg—that is, three whites to two yolks. Half fill some greased deep patty-pans, and bake in a sharp oven. The mixture should taper at the top in putting it in the patty-pans. Detach very carefully, and dredge with chopped parsley or coralline pepper, or a little sieved egg-yolk. Serve with a good mince or hash, or other dishes as pre- ferred. Potatoes, Fried, Superior.— There are various names for this dish —Potatoes, Fried a la Souffle is one ; Puffed Potatoes is another. Those who would eat fried potatoes in perfection should try it. First slice or cut kidney potatoes into shapes like the sections of an orange; after washing, dry them ; a floured cloth is used by some, but flour is not needed. They must then be fried in fat to cover, not hot enough to colour them, only to cook them, and when soft they must be taken up ; they may take five minutes or more, and a frying-basket should be used. The fat should then be made very hot, the potatoes being kept warm meanwhile; they are then put in the basket and again plunged in. If the fat be right, they will puff out; the basket should be gently moved, and must be taken out as soon as the potatoes are a golden brown. Drain well, sprinkle with salt and, if liked, with chopped parsley or cayenne. They are an excellent ac- companiment to game, beef steaks, &c. Note.—If not dried well, or the second fat is not hot enough, the dish is not a success. Potatoes, Minced, and Sauted. -New potatoes are nice thus; boil them whole until half or three-parts done. When cold, cut them in dice, and finish the cooking in butter; they should be delicately coloured and kept soft; old potatoes can be so treated if not a very mealy kind. Maitbe d’HGtel Sauce or Butteb is often served with these, or any good white sauce is equally nice. Cost, about 3d. or 4d. per pound when plentiful, including adjunct* Potatoes with Puree A la Brough. — Required : potatoes, a purSe as below, and some croutons. Cost, about Is. Cloanse and boil some new potatoes, and turn them into a hot soft cloth as soon as done. They must be even in size or the dish does not look well. Make a puree as follows for a pound of potatoes:—Put in astewpana table- spoonful of brown sauce, the same of fresh tomato pulp, an ounce of fresh butter, a half tablespoonful of sherry, a morsel of glaze the size of a nut, a little salt and cayenne, a dash of French mustard, and a few drops of carmine. Stir these to the boil, then add a tablespoonful of grated ham, the sieved yolk of a hard egg, and the white first chopped, then sieved. Add more colouring if needed; the mixture should be a pretty pink; now put some small oblong croutons on a dish, one for each potato ; lay them on, and mask with the sauce ; the croutons are to be large enough to show a rim nil round the potatoes. Another way of serving, when a rather more substantial dish is wanted, is made by laying a slice of hot ham on each crouton before putting the potatoes on ; mask with a little brown sauce, then finish off as directed. TheDRESSED VEGETABLES. C91 puree answers equally well for other vegetables. It is excellent with young turnips or Jerusalem artichokes, to which it gives a very pleasant piquancy. Potatoes with. Puree a la Christie.—Required : potatoes, and a puree as below, with garnish, &c. Cost, rather more than the above. Prepare the potatoes as above, but after peeling them trim with a “root knife,” to give a ridged appearance. (See Vegetable Knives.) Make a puree as above, but add a tablespoon- ful of cooked game livers, pounded and sieved. (See recipes in the chapter on Game.) This is to be more highly seasoned, and if liked, the wine may be increased and the tomato pulp re- duced a little. Croutons may be used as above, or some rich potato cakes (page 689). If the latter, glaze them. Garnish with fried parsley and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Rose.—Re- quired : a potato puree and some arti- choke bottoms. Cost, if a small tin of artichokes, about Is. 9d. to 2s. with sauce. Prepare a puree (see page 689) and colour part of it pale pink; put this into one side of a forcing-bag with a rose pipe, and the plain, uneoloured part into the other side. Have a hot dish ready, on which some artichoke bottoms, previously heated, have been placed. Force out the potatoes to form a rose on each. Do this near the fire, the dish being set over boiling water; a cloth must be used over the forcing- bag. This can eifher go to table as a separate course, with a little good sauce, or be served round any nice made dish of fillets, kidneys, sweetbreads, &c. It is very pretty and has many uses. Potatoes Stuffed (a Chinese dish).—Required : potatoes, steak, &c., for the filling as below, and somo butter. Cost, about 8d. per pound, inclusive. Parboil some potatoes of even size, and let them get cold; take a morsel from one end, and scoop out the interior. Prepare the following mixture for filling the vacant places:—Pass some tender steak thi'ough a mincer, add a small onion to each half-pound, a couple of chillies, a morsel" of garlic, a little salt and mixed spice, with somo herbs; pound up finely in a mortar. Cook ail in a little butter; then, after filling the potatoes, replace the ends, and bake in a tin, with butter, to a golden brown. The potatoes must be thoroughly done without being broken. Drain and serve very hot. Another icay.—Use any white meat for the filling; cook it in a spoonful or two of white stock in place of butter, and flavour with herbs and spices; enrich it with cream, and thicken the mince with boiled rice carefully" pounded. This is a delicate dish. Another variety is made by using a little curry, cream, and lemon or lime j uice to flavour and enrich the meat. Potatoes a la Supreme.— Required: potatoes and sauce, egg and crumbs. Cost, about 8d. for a dish of a pound, including fried parsley for garnish. Steam the potatoes and leave to cool, mask them with the Sauce Supreme, then crumbs, then eggs and crumbs again; quarter them if largo. Fry and drain, and serve very hot. Puree a la Zouave, in Cases. —Required : half a pint of sauce, eggs, potatoes, and croustades as below. Cost, exclusive of the sauce, about Gd. or 8tl. Make the sauco as directed (page 107), but instead of adding meat to it, make it thick with cooked, sieved potatoes. Fry croustades, ono for each person (sec Garnishes), boil four eggs hard, and slice them, put a slice in each croustade, thon sauce, and a slice of egg on the top. If more egg bo liked, put slices round the sides. Servo hot, and dredge the tops with fried crumbs. Salsify & la Creme—Tako the roots, after boiling; dry them with a soft cloth, cut them into lengths of an inch or moro, and lay them in enough692 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. cream sauce just to cover them (see page 94). Dish in a pile and serve hot. Salsify can be re-heated in good melted butter or other sauces. Cost, variable. Salsify, Fried.—Cut the boiled salsify into long pieces, or cut it short if preferred, and moisten with thick sauce that will cause them to adhere, and form little rolls when cold. Then coat with beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry brown. Add a drop of an- chovy to the beaten egg. Garnish with fried parsley. Cost, variable. Salsify, Scalloped.—Boil the salsify till tender, and rub it through a sieve. Put it into a bowl, which is placed in a larger one half filled with boiling water. This is to keep the salsify hot. Work into the pulp a little butter and cream, and season with salt and pepper. Add a pinch of celery salt, if it is at hand. Butter some scallop-shells, cover them with grated bread-crumbs, and fill them with the puree. Cover with crumbs, and plaee little pieces of butter here and there, and bake a nice brown. This is a favourite way of serving. Chopped parsley is sometimes added, and a little anchovy essence is an im- provement ; the two combined, with a grate of lemon peel and nutmeg, give an excellent flavour. Cost, variable. Spinach Croquettes.— Required: spinach, game, potato pastry, eggs and crumbs, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. to 9d. per dozen, but variable. This is a good dish for any meal, and as remnants come in for it it is not costly. Take some cold spinach puree and make it into little balls the size of a large walnut. Hollow the centre and put in a morsel of game puree, or one of the livers only (see recipes under Game). Close up and cover with a thin layer of potato pastry, and fry as directed for croquettes generally. Or instead of this, a coating of beaten egg and bread-crumbs, or crushed ver- micelli can be used. Those are to bo well drained, and served with a little game gravy or sauce. Another way.—Use a little grated cheese, moistened with a spoonful of white sauce to every four ounces, and season nicely; theso cam be served plainly or with Cheese Saucb. There are many mixtures given in the chap- tor on Cheese, &c., that will furnish an improved variety of these. Any green puree can be used up thus. Spinach Croutes. — Required: croutes (see Gaulishes), eggs, cream, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, about 6d. per dozen. This is a pretty dish, and any other “green” of a similar kind may be used instead of spinach; nettles, dan- delion, endive, and others are just as good. After cooking the vegetable, and pressing it well, put it in a sauce- pan with a little spice and the yolks of an egg or two, to form a sort of paste ; add a little cream and stir, then fill some hollow croutes, size and shape according to taste; see that they are fried a delicate brown only. On the top of each put a slice of hard-boiled egg, sprinkle somo with chopped pars- ley and somo with coralline pepper; or use a pinch of fried bread-crumbs. Serve as a separate course or for garnishing meats. Spinach Croutes with Ham. —Prepare the croutes as above, and lay on each a little slice of nicely broiled ham, nearly the size of the croute ; it should show just a margin of spinach ; brush over with thin glaze or good gravy, and put a tiny pile of hard-boiled egg, sliced and cut into very small dice on the top. A morsel of parsley or chervil completes the dish. Serve very hot. Cost, 9d. to Is. per dozen. Spinach Custard.—Required: six tablespoonfuls of cooked spinach, sieved, half a pint of milk, the same of cream, the yolks of five eggs, and a little seasoning. Cost, about Is., with- out spinach. Put the sieved spinach in a bowl, add the strained yolks of eggs, and beat well, then the milk and cream heated together; add them by degreesDRESSED VEGETABLES. 693 and beat hard; season and set by to cool, then till any little fancy moulds, buttered, and cook thorn until firm. Either set the moulds in a potato steamer, or in a stewpan with boiling water round them, but see that it sim- mers only. A buttered paper should be laid over the motdds. Turn out very carefully. A dessertspoonful of arrowroot or potato flour, mixed with the milk, and boiled before adding to the spinach, will ensure the moulds turning out firmly, but they will eat rather less delicately. Or the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, sieved, and an extra raw yolk may be used if liked. These are useful as a garnish; they look pretty round a dish of mince or hash (of a superior kind); they go well with sweetbreads, whole or sliced, veal cut- lets, and made dishes generally. Or they can be garnished with strips of poultry, ham, tongue, &c., heated in a little good sauce, and served separately. With other vegetables cut into fancy shapes, they are suitable for putting round a braised joint. Spinach. Puree {see page 654). —The finer the sieve through which the spinach is passed the better. For a very good dish, return the sieved epinach to the saucepan, with half a gill of thick cream to a quart, and stir until hot. This is nice for using from a bag and pipe. Another good puree is made by beating in the sieved yolk of a hard egg to the above quantity, with a little cream or butter, and seasoning to taste. A puree of spinach pressed into a mould or basin, turned out, and coated with thick bechamel or other good sauce, and garnished with fancy shapes of glazed ham, slices of hard eggs, and croutons, is a very nice dish. A good puree of onions or celery may be used instead of sauce with the spinach. Cost, varies with the adjuncts employed. Tomato Chips. — For cooked chips, take the outer part, with the skin adhering, and see that the toma- toes are sound and fully ripe ; cut up into chips, and fry or cook them quickly, so ns to retain their shape. They nre a ready and effective gar- nish for many colourless vegetables, also rice, &c. For raw chips, simply cut them in the same way, and season them ; they may be left plain, or sprinkled with chopped parsley or other green meat; if oil be used, with tarragon, &c., they are useful for salads of many sorts. A sharp knife is wanted, and if the fruit be over-ripe and “pappy ” the chips are a failure. Tomato Rolls, Italian.—Re- quired : tomatoes, seasoning, stock, cream, ham, chicken, eggs, crumbs, and vermicelli. Cost, about Is. 8d. Take four ripe tomatoes, the size of a medium orange, or a proportionate number of smaller ones. Break them up and rub through a sieve; no seeds must go through, and it saves time to use a little warm stock to moisten them. Chop a teaspoonful each of parsley, onion, and basil and thyme mixed; add these to the pulp with three ounces of chopped ham, the same weight of chicken (the white part of a braised or boiled one), as much bread as the two meats combined, to be soaked in stock or cream, and squeezed dry first, and pepper and salt to taste. Add as much beaten egg as is required to bind the mass, then put it by in a cool place for a few hours. Shape it on a floured board the thick- ness of ordinary sausages, and two inches long, if for garnishing; but for separate service they may bo longer. Brush them over with law egg yolk, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs; set aside for an hour, then egg again and roll in crushed vermicelli. Fry in plenty of hot fat, to a delicate brown. Another way. — Omit the herbs named above, and season with chopped chervil and tarragon, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Tomatoes au Gratin. — The recipe for mushrooms (pago C8G) may be followed so far as the filling of the tomatoes is concerned. Tho pulp must bo removed with a small spoon; aUNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. 694 portion of it, freed from the seeds, can he mixed with the mushroom preparation used for the filling. A round should be cut in the stalk end for the removal of tho pulp, and this must be filled up with fried crumbs or a little crouton. Many ways of preparing this dish are given ; the following is simpler than the above:—Slice some tomatoes, lay them in a flat dish, buttered and covered with bread-crumbs, then strew some chopped mushrooms over, with a little ham; or use herbs and ham, or chopped onions ; moisten with a little browm sauce, cover with more crumbs, add a few bits of butter, and bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. Cost, about 9d. per pound. Note.—In filling up the holes with crumbs (first recipe), to prevent their falling over the other part of the toma- toes, take a bit of paper, and cut a hole in it the right size; lay it over the tomatoes, and fill through the hole ; any loose crumbs will then be caught by the paper. Tomatoes with Iced Sauce. —There are many ways of serving these; a good one is as follows:— Halve some ripe tomatoes and core and seed them ; the skins may be removed or not as preferred. Make some Sauce a la Dkesde, and cut it in tiny dice shapes, then fill the halves with it and lay each in a fancy paper case. Arrange them on a dish covered with a lace paper and garnish with green salad. Another way.—Prepare the tomatoes in the same way, and put in each half a tiny mould of Sauce a la Cal- cutta. Instead of using paper cases, dish them in a bed of green salad; the effect of the three colours is very pretty. For a quicker method put the sauce in the tomatoes instead of in moulds; level it with a palette knife, and set in an ice cave to get firm, then dish as before. Another tray.—Make some Sauce a l’Alceste, by the second method; arrange it in a mould with a layer of thinly-sliced tomatoes in the middle, so that when turned out there shall bo two layers of sauce with toma- toes between. If a border mould, turn out and fill the centre with toma- toes in dice, mixed with ordinary mayonnaise, a little of which is pre- ferably coloured green for garnishing the surface. A plain mould can be used, and the sauce cut up into squares : these can be piled in tho middle of a dish, and the tomatoes as above but in pink mayonnaise, put all round. The latter is the prettier way of serving. Cost, variable. Tomatoes, Moulded. — The moulds illustrated below can be used for a number of purposes, both for hot and cold entrees, salads, and for the garnishing of a variety of dishes. With whatever they may be filled, it Fig. 113.—Tomato Mould. is important that the two halves of the mould are pressed firmly together, and that the marks on each side the mould are exactly opposite each other, or their appearance when turned out will be disappointing. For Tomatoes a la Supreme, line the moulds with Tomato Aspic, first adding to it a tablespoonful of whipped cream and the same of cooked chicken, pounded and sieved, to each half-pint. When firm, fill up with a puree made from chicken as above, mixed with cream and rich chicken stock, two tablcspoonfuls of each to half a pint of the chicken ; then add half a gill of Sauce Supreme, and mix very thoroughly ; this should be put on ice695 DRESSED VEGETABLES. and be on the point of setting before it is put into the moulds. Set them in an ice cave or on ice for about half an hour and turn out, either on a border of aspic or rice, or on a dish paper ; use parsley or other green material as garnish. The chicken for these is to be delicately seasoned. For Tomatoes a la B£chamel, use sauce of that name for the one given above, and for an economical dish cooked veal or rabbit can be used in place of chicken. Tomatoes a la Tyrrell.— Required : tomatoes, butter, jelly, store sauce, brown sauce, crumbs, egg, seasoning, &c., as below. Cost, very variable, according to the ad- juncts named below. Take good-sized tomatoes for this dish, as even in shape and size as pos- sible ; use the centre slices only, and cut them about a quarter of an inch thick; take the skin off, the hard core out, and the pips away. Mix in a basin a couple of ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, the same of store sauce and mushroom ketchup mixed, a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, the same of salt and castor sugar, and a tablespoonful of brown sauce. These are the pro- portions ; the quantity must be regu- lated by the weight of the tomatoes; this mixture does for about a pound. Brush a baking sheet over with butter, put the tomatoes in in a single layer, brush the upper side with beaten yolk of egg, then with the mixture above ; put in a sharp oven, and when half- done dredge with crumbs, preferably lightly-fried ones; finish the cooking,- then put the white of the egg on in tiny spots round the edges of the slices; it must be beaten to the stiffest possible froth first; brown up in the oven, or with the salamander. These are now ready for serving as a separate dish on round croutons, or they may be used as adjuncts to other dishes. As a breakfast dish they may be garnished in the centre with bacon or ham cut in dice and mixed with • thickened gravy or brown sauce. Or some sausages can be sliced and piled up in the same way. The remains of any of the rich sorts of pates in tins are also very handy, and by using with them some meat or poultry a little goes a long way. All the minces of liver of game and poultry of the most savoury sorts, as given in the chapter on Game and Poultrt, answer ad- mirably ; but delicately - flavoured minces are not suitable. Then there are various ways of garnishing with forcemeat or eggs. {See Index.) Truffled Tomatoes.—Required: tomatoes, truffles, sherry, stock, crumbs, glaze, croutons, and brown sauce. Cost, about 8d. to lOd. per pound, without truffles. Take some fully-ripc tomatoes of moderate size, cut them through ; re- move the skin and pips and the hard core from the centre; mince a few truffles, moisten them with sherry, and add them to an equal bulk of bread- crumbs that have soaked in rich stock ; season a little and mix well, then add a little brown sauce just to make a moist mass. Fill the tomatoes with this, level each half, then press to- gether in their original shape ; put each in a round china case and steam them until the tomatoes are done; then brush the tops with thin glaze and lay a fancy crouton on the tops ; stick tiny triangular croutons all round the edges, and serve hot. Truffle Fur6e,—Wash, brush, and peel half a pound of fresh truffles. Pound them with an ounce of butter and press them through a hair sieve. Put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce, and let them boil for ten minutes. Just before serving the puree, dissolve an ounce of glaze and an ounco of butter in a little stock, and add to it. Cost, variable. Truffles h l’ltalienue.— Cleanse thoroughly, dry, and pare eight truffles, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a baking-dish with696 ■UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. a quarter of a pint of Lucca oil, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, another of powdered mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them bake gently nearly an hour, squeeze the strained juice of half a lemon over them, and serve very hot. If liked, a clove of garlic may be minced and put with them. Cost, very uncertain. Truffles in Madeira.—Re- quired : a dozen tine fresh truffles, Madeira to cover them, a couple of cloves, a pinch of cayenne and mig- nonette pepper, salt, an ounce of butter, and half an ounce of glaze. Cost, variable. After the truffles are washed and prepared they must be kept cool until wanted. Put them in a saucepan with the wine and seasoning, and cook until tender; then add the glaze, and keep the truffles hot while the wine is boiled quickly for a few minutes; add the butter, pour the whole over, and serve the truffles at once. Truffles, Potted.—Wash, brush, peel, and slice six ounces of fresh truffles. Dissolvo a pound of fresh butter; skim it carefully, pour it into a basin, and let it stand two or three minutes, then pour the pure oiled part away from the thick, milky substance which will have settled at the bottom. Put the sliced truffles into a delicately- clean stewTpan, and pour the butter gently over them. Let it stand until it is set, then put the saucepan on a slow fire, and stew tho truffles very gently until they are tender. Lift them into dry preserving jars, cover them with the butter, and store them in a cool and perfectly dry place. They will keep for months, and will be a most acceptable addition to the break- fast or luncheon table. The butter which remains after tho truffles are thoroughly covered, so as to exclude the air, may be potted separately, and may be used for flavouring sauces and various delicate preparations. Time to stew the truffles, thirty minutes, or more. Cost, variable. Truffles a la Serviette.— Required: truffles, bacon, wine, gravy, herbs, &c., as below. Cost, uncertain. Wash and brush the truffles to free them from dirt and grit, using many waters; drain well, and put them in a stewpan lined with thinly-sliced bacon; pour veal gravy over with aglass of white wine; add a bunch of pars- ley, a sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a clove or two, and a little celery. Cover closely, simmer until done, and let them cool in the liquid. When re- quired for table, re-heat, and drain, and dish in a folded napkin. Send to table with cold butter. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Another way.—After washing and brushing the truffles until quite clean, dry them, and wrap each separately in a buttered paper, then bake them in a good oven, or before the fire in a Dutch oven, turning them that they may be equally and thoroughly cooked. Take off the papers, wipe the truffles with a soft warm cloth, and serve on a prettily-folded napkin. Time, about an hour. Truffles, Stewed in Cham- pagne.— Select the finest truffles for this dish, reject an}- that have a musty smell. Wash and brush them well with cold water only, change it several times, and when they arc perfectly clean line a stewpan with slices of sweet bacon; put in the truffles w'ith a bunch of parsley, green onions, and thyme, two or three bay leaves, two cloves, and a little sweet basil; pour in sufficient rich veal gravy to cover them, with half a pint of champagne. Boil them very softly "for an hour, then draw them aside and let them cool in tho gravy. Heat them afresh in it when they are wanted for table; lift them out and drain them in a very clean cloth, and dish them neatly in a white napkin, which shall contrast as strongly as possible with the dark hue of the truffles. Tho above amount of champagne is for two pounds. Bottled truffles may be used in the same man- ner ; their liquor should be used in697 I) ItESS ED VEGETABLES. place of some of the stock, and the champagne may he reduced; or, for a less expensive dish, light wine of good quality may be used instead for the stewing, a glass of champagne being added near the end. Turnip Balls or Marbles. — Prepare some nice young turnips, by cutting them into balls the size of a common marble; blanch them, then cook in white stock until tender, if to be coated with white sauce. Turnip Cups. — These are re- ferred to in several recipes. Boil and halve some turnips; scoop out the centres, and fill with peas, carrots in dice or pea shapes, beans, or beetroot; anything, in short, that will form a pleasant contrast in point of colour. These can be put round a dish of lamb or veal. The scooped-out part can be used for a puree, and, if liked, the cups put round it. Before filling the cups, coat them with white sauce; caper or parsley is also suitable. Turnip Puree, Rich.— Required : turnips, cream, sauce, butter, seasoning, and garnish, as below'. Cost, 4d., exclusive of the turnips. When French ones are used, the puree is much more expensive. Boil and sieve the turnips; to a quart of the pulp add a tablespoonful each of cream and Bechamel, or other rich sauce, and half an ounce of butter; season nicely,and stir for some minutes. Very white turnips are best for this— French ones are sure to be of good colour if properly cooked. This may be served plain, or sprinkled with chopped parsley, or shreds of cooked carrot or beetroot may be put round the base, with a few chopped capers; but this must depend upon the nature of the dish it is to be served with. Mote.—If wanted stiff, a little flour should be dredged over the turnips before any liquid is added, after they are sieved. Turnip Furde, with Bread.— This is called Fkexck PchIsb, or Turnip and Bread PcbHe. It is recommended as being rather more substantial than the above. To make it, take the sieved pulp, preferably of French turnips, and put it in a sauce- pan with its bulk of bread-crumbs that have been soaked in cream as for sauce. Boil for a few minutes—it should be thick; then season and serve. Cost, rather less than the above. Turnips au Beurre. —Young turnips are required; they are lo be shaped, according to taste, in olives, pears, &c. Sufficient butter is then to be melted in a stewpan; it should j ust cover them in a single layer, and the cooking should be gentle, or they are liable to break. They will take from thirty to forty minutes. A great im- provement in the flavour is effected by parboiling them in white stock. Serve as they are, or sprinkled with chopped parsley or capers. They are nice with lamb or veal. Turnips, Fried.—After boiling in white stock until nearly done, dry and finish off as directed for Onions, Fried, Superior. They are nice- for garnishing, and may be in balls or olives, slices, dice, or like the sections of an orange. If served with fried tomatoes the appearance of the dish is improved. Turnips, Glazed.—Boil until nearly done, then dry and fry in a little hot fat, turning them about until golden brown; brush with thin glaze and serve. Vegetable Marrow, Mari- naded.—By treating as follows, the vegetable is greatly improved :—After paring, seeding, and cutting up the marrows into suitable pieces for serving, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, then pour over them a mixture of half a gill of olive oil, a tablespoon- ful each of brown vinegar and herbal vinegar, and a teaspoonful of spiced or chilli vinegar; this will servo for a good-sized marrow, or two small ones ; after coating with the above, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over thorn, and leavo for awhile, covered. Take698 UNIVERSAL COOKERY BOOK. them up and drain them, then stew them in brown gravy, or steam them, and pour thick sauce over. The marinade can be used up in plain vegetable salads. Vegetable Marrow Shapes or Cups.—(See Turnip Cups.) Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed (see recipes in preceding chapter).—By using a rich forcemeat, and serving with a good white or brown sauce or gravy, very nice dishes are obtainable. The marrow may also be cut in pieces after boiling or steaming, then scooped out into boat shapes or any similar, the hollows filled with a white or brown mince of meat, poultry, or game, and served hot. (See Index for various minces and purees.) Tur- nips may be treated similarly if cut through, and scooped out into cup shapes. Vegetables for Garnishing. —The preparation of vegetables for the garnishing of soups, and various dishes of the cold savoury class, in- cluding salads, entrees, &c., requires considerable care, or they will be most disappointing as regards their colour. This is particularly the case when they are intended for the decoration of aspic borders, or jelly in any other form ; and to bring about the desired results the following points may be empha- sised :—They must be most thoroughly rinsed at starting, after the preliminary cleansing ; the water they are boiled in should be plentiful and well skimmed, and the vessel must be scrupulously clean; they must be well cooked, but not over-done; and this is a rather • difficult task when very small shapes are in question—for a moment too long, and they break; still, if not done, not only are they practically un- eatable, but the colour and general appearance are quite different; this is especially the case with turnips. As soon as done, they should be strained and rinsed with clean cold water, then put, each vegetable separately, in glasses of cold water until wanted; in this way any imperfection can be readily do- • tected. Each colour must he boiled in a separate vessel, and the freshest and best vegetables only should be us <1. After putting them in the glasses, cover to keep out the dust. Vegetables, Iced.—(See Iced Veoetaiiles.1Camden Libraries and Arts Department