The University Library Leeds ☆ ☆☆ | LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: 0JOKER/ i\ m 0106 0112 2569 Ir'V.O \ -1- ENGLISH HOUSEWIFERY, \ EXEMPLIFIED IN Above Fou?' Hundred and Fifty Receipts, GIVING DIRECTIONS IN MOST PARTS OF COOKERY; » AND HOW TO PREPARE VARIOUS SORTS OF SOUPS, PICKLES, JELLIES, MADE DISHES, CAKES, MADE WINES, PASTES, CREAMS, &c. &c. &c. WITH ELEGANT CUTS, For the orderly placing the dilhes and courfes; alfo bills of fare for every month in the year; and an alphabetical index to the whole. A book neceflary for miflrefles of families, higher and lower women fervants, and confined to things uleful, fubftantial, and fplendid, and calculated for the pre- fervation of health, and upon the meafures of frugality, being the refult of thirty years prattice and experience. BY ELIZABETH MOXON. WITH AN APPENDIX, Containing upwards of Eighty Receipts, of the most valuable kind. TO THIS EDITION IS NOW ADDED, AN INTRODUCTION, Giving an account of the times when River Fifh are in fcafon ; and a table, Ihowing at one view the proper feafons for Sea Filh. A NEW EDITION IMPROVF.D. LONDON: PRINTED FOR J. BRAMBLES, A. MECG1TT, AND ], WATERS, SV H. MOZ1EY, GAINSBOROUGH, 1808.jtm UNIVERSITY Library, L£6D&PREFACE. IT is not doubted, but the candid reader will find the following book in correspond- ence with the title, which will supersede the necessity u) any other recommendation that might be given it. As the compiler of it engaged in the undertaking at the instance and impor- tunity of many persons of eminent ac- count and distinction, so she can truly assure them, and the world, that she has acquitted herself with the utmost care and fidelity. And she entertains the greater hope that her performance will meet with the kinder acceptance, because of the good opinion she has been held in by those, her ever honoured friends, tv ho first excited her to the publication of her book, and who have long been, eye-witnesses of her skill and behaviour in the business of her calling. OV INTRODUCTION/ jyj A NY friends to this publication having repeatedly expreffcd their defires of knowing the particular months when river-fifh fpawn, and are mod in feafon ; the Editor of this work, ever ready to attend to the kind hints which are offered for its improvement, and imprefled with the deeped fenfe of gratitude to the public, for their favourable reception of the very nu- merous imprefiions of the umrk, fubmitsto their can- dor, the heft anfwers, as fuited to the rivers Aire and Wharfe, which he hath been able to procure to their requeds; and the bed information, in fuch other par- ticulars, as, he apprehends, may be ufeful. BARBEL.—Thi fifh fpawns at the latter end of April, or in the beginning of May; begius to be in feafon about a month after, and continues in feafon till the time of fpawning returns. It is very bony and coarfe, and is not accounted, at any time, the beft fifh to eat either for wholefomenefs or tade ;* but the fpawn is of a very poifonous nature. When it is full of fpawn, in March and April, it may be-fo eafily midaken for Tench, if the barbs or wattels, under the head, are carefully cut off; and (if the fame art is taken to difguife it) its fine cafe and hand- fome diape, during the red of the year, give it fo * Hawkins, the editor of Walton’s Complete Angler, ob- ferves, p. 217, Note, T hat ‘ though the fpawn of Barbel is « known to he of a poifonous nature, yet it is often taken, by • country people, medicinally, who find it at once a moft « powerful emetic and cathartic. And, notwithstanding what 1 is faid of the wholefomenefs of the flefh, with fomc conftitu- ‘ tions it produces the fame eflefts as the fpawn. About the * month of September, in the year 1754, a fervant of mine, * who had eaten part of a Barbel, though as I had cautioned • him, he abflained from the fpawn, was feized with fuch ‘ a violent purging and vomiting as had like to hare coft him ‘ his life.’INTRODUCTION. v near a refemblance to Grayling, that it is very com- mon to impofe it upon the public, for the one or the other, as the different feafons give the proper oppor- tunities. The public, therefore, cannot be too much warned of the danger attending Inch deceit ; and the prudent matron, hou ekeeper, or cook, cannot ex- amine with too much care, whether me (kin, under the chaps of Inch filh as are purehafed for Tench or Grayling, be perfe&ly whole ; fince, if they are Bar- bel, there will be four flight wounds under the head or chaps of each fifh, by the barbs or wattels being cut off. For if it is ferved up to the table foi Tench, the fpawn may prove fatal to the perfon who eats it ; and, at the belt, whether it is dreffed as Tench or Grayling, the tree eating of the FLEd HI (if we may be allowed the exprefiion) may be attended with dif- agreeable, if not dangerous chnfequences. It will appear below, that Bench fpawn in July, we mull, therefore, remark further, that if any filh is fold for Tench in March and April, and proves to be full of fpawn, it cannot be Bench, but is a cheat upon the purchafer, and mull be Barbel. BLEAK.— Bhe time of its fpawning is very un- certain, and the fifh is very little regarded at any time. BREAM—fpawns in the beginning of July, but is molt in feafon in June and September. CARP.—This filh is faid to breed two or three times in a year, but the chief time of fpawning is in May. Jt is, indeed, rather a pond, than a river fifh ; and a well fed lifh is at all times a delicate difh. CHUB—fpawns in March, but is bed in feafon about Chriltmas. The (pawn is excellent, and very wholcfome. A 3Vi INTRODUCTION. DACE—fpawns about the middle of March, arc in leafon about three weeks after ; they are not very good till about Michaelmas, and are the bell in February.f EELS—are equally in feafon all the year. The bright Silver Eels, which are bred in clear rivers and fti earns, are in great efteem. Thofe which are caught in ponds, or waters of a flow courfe, whofe bottoms are rather inclined to earth and flime, than gravel, are at the belt infipid, and very frequently talte of the very mud in which they have been bred. GUDGEONS—I pawn in May, and once or twice more during the fummer. Are in feafon all the year, except two or three weeks after every fparvning time. GRA YLING or UMBER.—This excellent filh fpawns in May, is in feafon ail the year, but in the greateft perfection in December. See the obferva- tions upon Barbel. PERCH.— This nutritious and wholefome filh is in feafon all the year, but molt fo in Augult and Sep- tsmber. § •j- The people who live not far from the rivers where Da re or Roach arc caught, have a method ofarciling the larger fort, which, is faid, renders them very pleafant and favonry food ; it is as follows ; without icaling the filh. lay them on a gridiron, as fpon after they are taken as you can, over a flow fire, and drew on them a little flour; w^icn they begin to grow brown make a flit, not more than fk:n deep, in the hack, fmm head to tail, and lay them on again ; when they are broiled enough, the (kin, fcales and all will peel oil, and leave the flclh, which will have become very firm, perfectly clean, then open the belly and take out the inlidc, and ufe anchovies and butter for fauce. § The following receipt for drefling a large 1 rout or Perch in the Ycrklhirc manner, is eftcemcd an excellent one; 1 akeINTRODUCTION. vii POPE, or RUFF, or BARCE.—This fifh fpawns in April, and is in feafon all the year; no filh that fwims is of a pleafanter tafte. PIKE—The time of breeding or fpawning is ufually in April; he is in feafon all the year, but the fatted and belt fed in autumn, though in moff general ufe in the fpring. RO \CH—fpawn about the latter end of May, when they are feabby and unwholefome, but they are again in order in about three weeks, and continue in feafon till the time of fpawning returns. The fpawn is excellent. For the manner of drolling, fee Dace. SALMON—is in feafon from the middle of No- vember to the middle of Augult. SALMON-SMELT—is in feafon all the year. TENCH.—This pleafant tailed filh fpawns in Ju- ly, is in feafon all the year, but moll valued in the fix winter months. See the obfervations upon Barbel. TROUT-—Thisbeautiful and deliciousfilh fpawns in O&ober and November, and is not of any value till the latter end of March, but continues afterwards in fealoti till the fpawning time returns. It is in the highelt perfedion, and of the moll delicate tafte, in May and June. For the method of drefiing, fee Perch. the filh as loon as polTible after they are caught, wipe them well with a loft dry cloth, wrap a little of the cloth about your finger, clean out the throat and gills very well, (you mud not fcule or gut the fifh, or ufe any water about them) then lay them on a gridiron over a Clear fire, and turn them fre- •quently. When they are enough, take off their heads, to which you will find the guts have adhered, then put a lump of butter, feafoned with fait, into the belly of every filh ; fo fet ve tnem up. Mod people cat them with their own gta'vy ; hut if you ulc any faucc, ferve it up in a boat.A TABLE TO SHOW WHEN- PISH ARE IN SEASON. NAMES. Brett Brill Cod Cole-Fllh Cockles Crabs Dabs Flounders Gurnets Haddocks Herrings Lobllers Ling Mackerel Mufcles Oyfters Plaice Salmon Soles Shrimps Sturgeon Skate Thornback Turbot (Whitings Sea Smelt Conger Lei Ian Kc» via. Vp. Ma ' June ft * * « * ft >? * ft «* ft ft ft * ft ft ft •ft * ft * ft ft * ft 4 * ft ft * *• ft * ft ft * * ft. ft * ft * ft ft ft ft ft * ft ft ft ft ft ft ft ft ft * * * ft * * ft ft ft * ft ft * * * » ft * * ! ft ft ft | * ft * 1 ft ft ft I | ft ft ft | * ft ft '■ ft • « ft ft ft * ft ft ft ft * 1 * * * 1 ft ft f ft ft ft * ft ft 1 • ft 1 ft • « ft ft O1!. 1 Ror. « ! * * f • • * ■ i * The Stars fignify when the Fiili are in Scafon, anJ the Blanki when they are notENGLISH HOUSEWIFERY, 1. To make Vermicelli Soup. npAKE a neck of beef, or any other piece, cutoff fome dices, and fry them with butter till they arc very brown ; wadi your pan out every time with a little of the gravy ; you may broil a few dices of the beef upon a gridiron ; put all together into a pot, with a large onion, a little fait, and a little whole pepper ; let it flew till the meat is tender, and flcim, off the fat in the boiling; then drain it into your dilh, and boil four ounces of vermicelli in a little of the gravy till it is foft. Add a little dewed fpinage ; then put all together into a did), with toads of bread ; laying a little vermicelli upon every toad. Garnifh your difh with creed rice and boiled fpinage, or carrots diced thin. 2. Cucumber Soup. Take a houghill of beef, break it fmall, and put it into a dew-pan, with part of a neck of mutton, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a little fait; co- ver it with water, and let it dand in the oven all10 night, then ftrain it and take off the fat; pare fix or eight middle-fized cucumbers, and (lice them not very thin, ftew them in a little butter and a little whole pepper ; take them out of the butter and put them into the g'ravy. Garnilh your dilh with rafpings of bread, and ferve it up with toafts of bread or French roll. 3. To make Hare Soup. Cut the hare into fmall pieces, wafh it and put it into a ftew-pan, with a knuckle of veal ; put in it a gallon of water, a little fait, and a handful of fweet herbs ; let it itew till the gravy be good; fry a little of the hare to brown the loup ; you may put in it fome crulls of white bread among the meat to thick- en the foup ; put it into a diih, with a little Hewed fpinage, crifped bread, and a few force-meat balls. Garnifh your dilh with boiled fpinage and turnips, cut in thin fquare dices. 4. lo make Green Peas-Soup. Take a neck of mutton, and a knuckle of veal, make of them a little good gravy ; then take half a peck of the gteenell young peas, boil and beat them to a pulp in a marble ntortar ; then put to them a lit- tle of the gravy ; ftrain them through a hair lieve to take out all the pulp ; put all together, with a little fait and whole pepper; then boil it a little, and if you think the loup not green enough, boil a handful of fpinage very tender, rub 'it through a hair lieve, and put it into the loup, with one handful ot wheat flour, to keep it from runni <g: you mull not let it boil after the (pinage is put in, it wiil difcolour it ; then cut white bread in little diamonds, fry them in11 butter while crifp, and put it into a difh, with a few whole peas. Garnifh your di(h with creed rice, and red beet-root. You may make afparagus foup the fame way, only add tops of afparagus, indead of whole peas, 5. To make Onion Soup. Take four or five large onions, peel and boil them in milk and water wliilft tender, (fhift them two or three times in the boiling) beat them in a marble mortar to a pulp, and rub them through a hairfieve, and put them into a little fweet gravy : then fry a few dices of veal, and two or three flices of lean ba- con ; beat them in a marble mortar as fmall as force- meat; put it into your dew-pan with the gravy and onions, and boil them; mix a fpoonful of wheat flour with a little water, and put it into the foup to keep it from running ; drain all through a cullender, feafon it to your talle; then put into the difh a little fpinage ftevved in butter, and a little crifp bread ; fo ferve it up. 6. Common Pcas-Soup in Winter. Take a quart of good boiling peas, which put into a pot with a gallon of foft water whillf cold ; add thereto a little beef or mutton, a little hung beef or , bacon, and two or three large onions ; boil all toge- ther while your (oup ts thick ; fait it to your talle, and thicken it with a little wheat flour; drain it thro’ a cullender, boil a little celery, cut it in fmall pieces, with a little crifp bread, and crifp a little fpinage as you would do parfley, then put it in a difh, and ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with rafpings of bread.12 7. To make Peas-Soup in Lent. Take a quart of peas, put them into a pot with ai gallon of water, two or three large onions, half a dozen anchovies, a little whole pepper and fait: boil all together whilft your foup is thick; ftrain it into a itew-pan through a cullender, and put fix ounces of butter (worked in flour) into the foup to thicken it; alfo put in a little boiled celery, Hewed fpinage, crifp bread, and a little dried mint powdered ; fo ferve it up. 8. Craze-Fish Soup. Take a knuckle of veal, and part of a neck of mutton to make white gravy, putting in an onion, a little whole pepper and fait to your talte; then take twenty craw-fifh, boil and beat them in a marble mortar, adding thereto a little of the gravy ; drain them and put them into the gravy ; alfo two or three pieces of white bread to thicken the foup ; boil twelve or fourteen of the fmalleil craw-fi/h. and put them whole into the difli, with a few toalls, or French rolls, which you pleafe ; fo ferve ic up. You may make loblter foup the lame way, only add into the foup the feeds of the lobiler. Q. To make Scotch Soup. Take an houghill of beef, cut it in pieces, with part of the neck of mutton, and a pound of French barley; put them all into your pot, with fix quarts of water; let" it boil till the barley be foft, then put in a fowl ; as foon as it is enough, put in a handful of red beet leaves or brocoli, a handhil of the blades of onions, a handful of fpinage, waflied and flired very fmall ; only let them have a little boil, elfc it13 will fpoil the greennefs. Serve it up with the fowl in a difli, garnilhed with rafpings of bread. 3 0. To make Soup without TViter. Take a fmall leg of mutton, cut it in flices, feafon it with a little pepper and fait; cut three middling turnips in round pieces, and three fmall carrots fcrap- ed and cut in pieces, a handful of fpinage, a little parfley, a bunch of fweet herbs, and two or three cabbage lettuces ; cut the herbs pretty fmall, lay a row of meat and a row of herbs; put the turnips and carrots at the bottom of the pot with an onion, lay at the top half a pound of fweet butter, and clofe up the pot with coarfe pafte ; then put the pot into boiling water, and let it boil for four hours ; or in a flow oven, and let it Hand all night; when it is enough drain the gravy from the meat, Ikim off the fat, then put it into your difh with fome toafts of bread, and a little Hewed ipinage ; fo lerve it up. \\. To stew a Brisket of Beef. Take the thin part of a brifket of beef, fcore the Ikin at the top ; crofs and take off the under fkin, then take out the bones, feafon it highly with mace, a little fait, and a little whole pepper, rub it on both fldes, let it lay all night, make broth of the bones, fkim the fat clean oft, put in as much water as will cover it well, let it itew over a flow fire four or five hours, with a bunch of fweet herbs and an onion cut in quarters; turn the beef over every hour, and when you find it tender take it out of the broth and drain it very well, having made a little good llrong gravy. BA ragout with fvvect-breads cut in pieces, pallets tenderly boiled and cut in long pieces ; take truffles,, morels and mufhrooms, if you have any, with a little: claret, and throw in your beef, let it (lew a quarter of an hour in the ragout, turning it over fometimes,. then take out your beef, and thicken your ragout: with a lump of butter and a little flour.—Garnifhi your difh with horfe-radifh and pickles, lay the ra-- gout round your beef, and a little upon the top; foi lerve it up. 12. To stew a Rump of Beef Take a fat rump of young beef and cut off the fag end, lard the low part with fat bacon, and (luff the other part with Aired parfley ; put it into your pan with two or three quarts of water, a quart of clartt,, two or three anchovies, an onion, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, and a bunch of fweet herbs; (lew it over a flow fire five or fix hours, turn- ing it feveral times in the ftewing, and keep it clofe covered ; when your beef is enough take from it the gravy, thicken part of it with a lump of butter and flour, and put it upon the difh with the beef. Gar- nifh 'the difh with horfe-radifh and red beet root. There mull be no lalt upon the beef, only fait the gravy to your tailc. You may flew part of a brifket, or an ox-chcek, the fame way. 13. To make Olives of Betf. Take fome flices of a rump (or any other tender piece) of beef, and beat them with a paile-pin, fea- fon them with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and rub them over with the yolk ot an egg ; make a littleB 2 orccd-meat of veal, beef-fuet, a few bread crumbs, weet herbs, a little fhred mace, pepper, fait, and wo eggs, mixed all together; take two or three lices of the beef, according as they are in bignefs, and a lump of forced-meat the fize of an egg ; lay your beef round it, and roll it in part of a kell of veal, put it into an earthen difh, with a little water, a glafs of claret, and a little onion fhred fmall; lay upon them a little butter, and bake them in an oven about an hour ; when they come out take off the fat, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; fix of them are enough for a fide difh. Garnifh the difh with horfe-radifh and pickles. You may make olives of veal the fame way. 14. To fry Beef Steaks. Take .your beef-fteaks and beat them with the back of a knife, fry them in butter over a quick fire, that they may be brown before they be too much done ; when they arc enough put them into an earth- en pot whilft you have fried them all; pour out the fat, and put them into your pan with a little gravy, an onion fhred very fmall, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little fait; thicken it with a little butter and flour, the thicknefs of cream. Garnifh your difh with pickles. Beef-fteaks are proper for a fide difh. ] 5. Beef-Steaks another way. Take your beef-fteaks and beat them with the back of a knife, flrew them over with a little pepper and fait, lay them on a gridiron over a cleat fire, turning them whilft enough ; fet your difh over a chafing-difh of coals, with a little brown gravy ; chop an onion16 or fhalot as fmall as pulp, and put it amongfl the gravy ; (if your fteaks be not over much done, gravy will come therefrom) put it on a difh and (hake it all together. Garnifli your difh with lhalots and pickles. 16. A Shoulder of Mutton forced. Take a pint of oyfters and chop them, put in ai few bread crumbs, a little pepper, fhred mace, and an onion, mix them all together, and fluff your mutton on both fides, then roafl it at a flow fire, and balle it with nothing but butter ; put into the drip- ping-pan a little water, two or three fpoonfuls of the pickle of oyfters, a glafs of claret, an onion fhred fmall, and an anchovy ; if your liquor waite before your mutton is enough, put in a little more water; when the meat is enough, take up thv gravy, fltim off the fat, and thicken it with flour and butter ; then ferve it up. Garnifli your difh with horfe-radifh and pickles. 17. To stew a Fillet of Mutton. Take a fillet of mutton, fluff it the fame as for a fhoulder, half roafl it, and put it into a flew-pan with a little gravy, a jill of claret, an anchovy, and a fhred onion ; you may put in a little horfe-radifh and fome mufhrooms ; Hew it over a flow fire while the mutton is enough ; take the gravy, fkim off the fat, and thicken it with flour and butter ; lay force- meat balls round the mutton. Garnifli your difh with horfe-radifh arid mufhrooms. Jt is proper either for a fide difh or bottom difh ; if you have it for a bottom difh, cut your mutton into two fillets.B 3 37 18. To Collar a Breast of Mutton. Take a breaft of mutton, bone it, and feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg ; make a little forced-meat of veal or mutton, chop it with a little beef-fuet, a few bread- crumbs, fweet herbs, an onion, pepper and fait, a little nutmeg, two eggs, and a fpoonful or two of cream ; mix all together, and lay it over the mutton, roll it up and bind it about with coarfe incle, put it into an earthen dilh with a little water, dredge it over with flour, and lay upon it a little water ; it will require two hours to bake it. When it is enough, take up the gravy, fkim off the fat, put in an anchovy and a fpoonful of catchup, thicken it with flour and butter; take the incle from the mut- ton and cut it into three or four rolls ; pour the fauce upon the difli, and lay about it forced-meat balls. Garnilh your dilh with pickles. It is either proper for a lide or bottom difli. 19- To Collar a Breast of Mutton another Bay. Take a breaft of mutton, bone it, and feafon it with nutmeg, .pepper and fait; roll it up tight with coarfe incle, and roall it upon a fpit ; when it is enough lay it whole upon the difli. Then take four or fix cucumbers, pare them and cut them in dices, not very thin ; likewife cut three or four in quarters length way., Hew them in a little brown gravy and a liuie whole, pepper ; when they are enough, thicken them with flour and butter the thicknefs of cream ; fo ierve it up. Garuilh your difli with horfe-radifh.]8 20. To Carbonade a Breast of Mutton. Take a bread of mutton, half boil it, nick it acrofs, feafon it with pepper and fait : then broil it before the fire whilft it be enough, ftrinkling it over with bread crumbs; let the fauce be a little gravy and butter, and a few Ihred capers : put it upon the dilh with the mutton. Garnifh it with horfe-radifh and pickles. This is proper for a fide dilh at noon, or a bottom dilh at night. 21. A Chine of Mutton roasted with stewed Celery. Take a loin of mutton, cut off the thin part and both ends, take off the lkin,and l'core it in the roaft- ing as you would do pork ; then take a little celery, boil it, and cut it in pieces about an inch long, put to it a little good gravy, whole pepper and fait, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a lump of butter, fo thicken it up, and pour it upon your dilh with your mutton. This is proper for a fide dilh. 22. Mutton Chops. Take a leg of mutton half l oaded, when it i- cold cut it in thin pieces as you would do any other meat for halhing, put it into a dew-pan with a little water or ftnall gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of claret, two or three ihalots Ihred, or onions, and two or three fpoonfuls of oyller pickle ; thicken it with a little flour, and fo ferve it up. Garnilh your dilh with horle-radifh and pickles. You may do a (houlder of mutton the fame vvay, only boil the blade bone, and lay it i- the middle.19 £3. A forced Leg of Mutton. Take a leg of mutton, loofe the Ikin from the meat, be careful you do not cut the Ikin as you loofen it; then cut the meat from the bone, and let the bone and ikin hang together, chop the meat fmall, with a little beef-fuet, as you would do faufages ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, a few bread •crumbs, two or three eggs, a little dried fage, Ihred parfley, and lemon-peel ; then fill up the Ikin with forced-meat, and lay it upon an earthen difh : lay upon the meat a little flour and butter, and a little water in the difh : it will take an hour and a half bak- ing ; when you difh it up lay about it either mutton or veal collops, with brown gravy fauce. Garnifh your difh with horfe-radi/h and lemon. You may make a forced leg of lamb the fame way. 24. To make French Cutlets of Mutton. Take a neck of mutton, cut it in joints, cut oft the ends of the 'long bones, then fcrape the meat clean off the bones about an inch, take a little of the inflde of the meat of the cutlets, and make it into forced-meat ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait; then lay it upon your cutlets, rub over them the yolk of an egg, to make it flick ; chop a few fweet herbs, and put to them a few bread crumbs, a little pepper •and lalt, and flrew it over the cutlets, wrap and them in double writing-paper; either broil them before the fire or in an oven, half an hour will do them ; when you difh them up, take off the out-paper, and let in the midft of the difh a little brown gravy in a china bafon ; you may broil them without paper, if you pleafe.20 25. To fry Mutton Steaks. Take a loin of mutton, cut off the thin part, then cut the reft into fteaks, and flat them with a bill,, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, fry them: in butter over a quick fire; as you fry them put them into a Itew-pan or earthen pot, whilft you have fried them all; then pour the fat out of the pan, put in a little gravy, and the gravy that comes from the fteaks, with a fpoonful of claret, an anchovy, and an onion or a fhalot Hired ; (hake up the fteaks in the gravy, and thicken it with a little flour; fo ferve them up. Garnilh your dilh with horfe-radifli and Ihalots. 26. To make artificial Venison of Mutton. Take a large fhoulder of mutton, or a middling fore quarter, bone it, lay it on an earthen dilh, put upon it a pint of claret, and let it lie all night: when you put it into your pafty-pan or difli, pour on the claret that it lay in, with a little water and butter : before you put it into your pafty-pan, feafon it with pepper and fait; when you make the pally lie no paile in the bottom of the dilh. 27. Iioxv to brown Ragout a Breast oj Veal. Take a breaft of veal, cut off both the ends, and half roall it ; then put it into a ftew-pan, with a quart of brown gravy, a fpoonlu! of muIhroom-pOw- der, a blade or two of mace and lemon-peel : fo iet it flew over a flow lire while yout veal is enough ; then put in two or three Hired mufhrooms or oyIters, two or three fpoonfuls of white-wine ; thicken up your fauce with flour and butter ; you may lay round your21 veal fome ftewed morels and truffles ; it you have none, fome pallets hewed in gravy, with artichoke bottoms cut in quarters, dipped in eggs and fried, and fome forced-meat balls ; you may fry the fweetbread cut in pieces, and lay over the veal, or fried oyfters ; when you fry your oyfters you mull dip them in egg and flour mixed. Garnifh your difh with lemon and pickles. 28. A Herrico of a Breast of Veal, French Way. Take a breaft of veal, half roaft it, then put it into a ftew-pan, with three pints of brown gravy ; feafon your veal with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; when your veal is ftewed enough, you may put in a pint of green peas boiled. Take fix middling cu- cumbers, pare and cut them in quarters long way, alfo two cabbage lettuces, and (lew them in brown gravy ; fo lay them round your veal when you dilh it up, with a few forced-meat balls and fome flices of bacon. Garnifti your difh with pickles, mufhrooms, oyfters, and lemon. 2.Q. Fo roll a Breast of J'eal. Take a breaft of veal, and bone it, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then llrew it over with fweet herbs fined fmall, and fome flices of bacon cut thin to lie upon it, roll it up very tight, bind it with coarfe incle, put it into an earthen dilh with a little water, and lay upon it fome lumps of butter; llrew a little feafoniug on the outlide of your veal, it will take two hours baking ; when it is baked take off the incle and cut it in four rolls, lay it upon the difh with a good brown gravy faucc; lay about your veal the fweet-22 bread fried, fome forced-meat balls, a little crifp ba- con, and a few fried /oyders, if you have any ; fo ferve it up. Garnifli your difh with pickles and lemon. 30. A stewed Breast of Veal. Take the fatted and whited bread of veal you can get, cut off both ends and boil them for a little gra- vy ; take the veal and raife up the thin part, make a forced-meat of the fweetbread boiled, a few bread crumbs, a little beef-fuet, two eggs, pepper and fait, a fpoonful or two of cream, and a little nutmeg, mixed all together ; fo duff the veal, fkewer the fkin dole down, dredge it over with flour, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it in milk and water about an hour. For the fauce take a little gravy, about a jill of oy- ders, a few mulhrooms Ihred, a little lemon-peel Hired fine, and a little juice of lemon ; fo thicken it up with flour and butter; when you difli it up pour the fame over it; lay over it a fweetbread or two cut in flices and fried, and fried oyders. Garnifli your dilh with lemon, pickles and muflirooms. This is proper for a top dilh either at noon or night. 31. To stew a Fillet of Veal. Take the leg of the bed white veal, cut off the dug and the knuckle, cut the red into two fillets, and take the fat part and cut it in pieces the thickneis of your finger: you mult fluff the veal with the fat; make the hole with a penknife, draw it through and fkewer it round, feafon it with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and Hired parlley ; then put it into your dew-pan, with halt a pound of butter, (without water) and fet23 it on your Hove; let it boil very flow, and cover it clofe up, turning it very often ; it will take about two hours in ftewing; when it is enough pour the gravy from it, take off the fat, put into the gravy a pint of oyflers and a few capers, a little lemon-peel, a fpoonful or two of white wine, and a little juice of lemon ; thicken it with butter and flour, the thick- nefs of cream ; lay round it forced-meat balls and oy- flers fried, and .fo ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with a few capers and fliced lemon. 32. To make Scotch Collops. Take a leg of veal, take off the thick part, cut it in thin dices for collops, beat them with a pafte-pin till they are very thin ; feafon them with mace, pep- per and fait, fry them over a quick fire, not over brown ; when they are fried put them into aftew-pan with a little gravy, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, two fpoonfuls of oyfter pickle, if you have it, and a little lemon-peel; then fliake them over a ftove in a ftew-pan, but do not let them boil over much, it only hardens your collops ; take the fat part of ycur veal, fluff it with forced-meat, and boil it ; when it is boiled lay it in the middle of your difh with the col- lops ; lay about your collops dices of crifp bacon, and forced-meat balls. Garnifh your difli with fliccs of lemon and oyflers, or mufhrooms. 33. Veal Cutlets. Take a neck of veal, cut it in joints, and flatten them with a bill; cut off the ends of the bones, and lard the thick part of the cutlets with four or five bits of bacon ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; ftrevv over them a few bread crumbs, and fweet herbs24 fhred fine ; firft clip the cutlets in egg, to make the crumbs fiick, then broil them before the fire, put to them a little brown gravy fauce ; fo ferve it up. Gar- nifh your tiifh with lemon. 34. Veal Cutlets another way. Take a neck of veal, cut it in joints, and flat them as before, and cut off the ends of the long bones ; feafon them with a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg ; broil them on a gridiron, over a flow fire ; when they are enough, ferve them up with brown gravy fauce and forced-meat balls. 35. Jreal Cutlets another way. Take a neck of veal and cut it in dices, flatten them as before, and cut off the ends of the long bones; feafon the cutlets with pepper and fait, and dredge over them fome flour ; fry them in butter over a quick fire ; when they are enough put from them the fat they were fried in, and put to them a little fmall gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, a fpooniul of white wine or juice of lemon, and grate in fome nutmeg ; thicken them with flour and butter, fo ferve them up. Garnifh your difh as before. 3f). To Collar a Calj 's-Head to eat hot. Take a large fat head, and lay it in water to take out the blood; boil it whiKt the bones will come out ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait ; then wrap it up round with a large lump of forced-meat made ot veal ; after which wrap it up tight in a veal kell be- fore it is cold, and take great care that you don't let the head break in two pieces; then bind it up with toarfe incle, lay it upon an earthen difh, dredge :t25 over with flour, and lay over it a little butter, with a little water in the difli ; an hour and a half will bake it; when it is enough take off the incle, cut it in two length ways, laying the fkin fide uppermofl ; when you lay it upon your difli you mufl lay round it Hew- ed pallets and artichoke bottoms fried with forced- meat balls ; put to it brown gravy fauce, you may brown your fauce with a few truffles or morels, and lay them about your veal. Garnifh your difli with lemon and pickle. 37- To Collar a Gal) 's-IIcad to cat cold. You mufl get a calf’s-head with the fkin on, fplit it and lay it in water, take out the tongue and eyes, cut off the groin ends, then tie it up in a cloth and boil it whilft the bones come out; when it is enough lay it on a table with the fkin fide uppermofl, and pour upon it a little cold water; then take off the hair and cut off the ears ; mind you do not break the head in two, turn it over and take out the bones ; fait it very well and wrap it round in a cloth very tight, pin it with pins, and tie it at both ends, fo bind it up with broad incle, then hang it up by one end, and when it is cold take it out ; you mufl make for it brown pickle, and it will keep half a year; when you cut it. cut it at the neck. It is proper for a lide xor middle difli, cither for noon or night. 38. To make a Calf's-Head Hash. Take a calf’s-head and boil it, when it is cold take one half of the head and cut off the meat in thin flices, put it into a ftew-pan with a little brown gravy, put26' to it a fpoonful or two of walnut pickle, a fpoonful of catchup, a little claret, a little fhred mace, a few capers (Tired, or a little mango ; boil it over a ftove, and thicken it with butter- and flour ; take the other part of the head, cut off the bone ends and fcore it with a knife, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, rub it ver with the yolk of an egg, and drew over a few bread crumbs and a little parfley ; then fet it before the fire to broil whilft it is brown ; and when you difh up the other part lay this in the midft ; lay about your hath, brain-cakes, forced-meat balls, and crifp bacon. To make Brain-Cakes.—Take a handful of bread crumbs, a little fhred lemon-peel, pepper, fait, nut- meg, fweet marjoram, parfley fhred fine, and the yolks of three eggs ; take the brains and (kin them, boil and chop them fmall, fo mix them all together; take a little butter in your pan when you fry them, and drop them in as you do fritters, and if they run in your pan, put in a handful more of bread crumbs. 39- To Hash a Calf's Head lChite. Take a calf’s head and boil it as much as you would do for eating, when it is cold cut it in thin Jlices, and put it into a (lew-pan with a white gravy ; then put to it a little fhred mace, fait, a pint of oyflers, a few fhred mufhrooms, lemon-peel, three fpoonfuls of white wine, and fome juice of lemon, fhake all toge- ther, and boil it over the dove, thicken it up "with a little flour and butter ; when you put it on your difh, you mufl put a boiled fowl in the midil, and a few flices of crifp bacon. Garni fit your difh with pickles anddemon.40. A Ragout of a Calf's Head. Take two calves’ heads and boil them as you do for eating, when they are cold cut off all the lantern part from the flefh, in pieces above an inch long, and about the breadth of your*little finger; put ir into your ftew-pan with a little white gravy ; twenty oy- fters, cut in two or three piece.-., a few Hired mufh- rooms, and a little juice of lemon ; teafon it with Hired mace and fait, let them all boil together over a dove; take two or three fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little Hired parfley, then put it into a ftew-pan ; after you have put the cream in you may fliake it all the while ; if you let it boil it will curdle ; fo ferve it up. Garniih your difh with fippets, lemon, and a few pickled mufhrooms. 41. To roast a Calf's Head to eat like Pig. Take a calf’s head, wafti it well, lay it in an earth- en difh, and cut out the tongue, lay it loofe under the headiri the dilli with the brains, and a little fage and parfley ; rub the head over with the yolk of a:i egg, then drew over them a few bread crumbs and Hired parfley, lay all over it lumps of butter and a little fait, then fet it in the oven ; it will take about an hour and a half "baking ; when it is enough take the brains, fage and parfley, and chop them together, put to them the gravy that is in the difh, a little but- ter, and a fpoonfuj of vinegar, fo boil it up and put it in cups, and fet them round the head upon the difh, take the tongue and blanch it, cut it in two, and lay it on each fide of the head, and fome flices of crifp bacon over the head ; fo ferve it up.28 42. Sauce for a Neck oj' / ’cal. Fry your veal, and when fried put in a little water, an anchovy, a few fweet herbs, a little onion, nut- meg, a little lemon-peel Hired fmall, and a little white wine or ale. then fhake it up with a little butter and Hour and fome cockles and capers. 43. To boil a Leg of Lamb, with the Loin fried about it. When your lamb is boiled lay it in the difh, and pour upon it a little parfley. butter, and green goofe- berries coddled, then lav your fried lamb round it ; take fome fmall afparagus and cut it imall like peas, and boil it green ; when it is boiled drain it in a cul- lender and lay it round your lamb in fpooniuls. Garnifli your difh with gooieberries, and heads of afparagus in lumps. This is proper for a bottom difh. 44. A Leg of Lamb boiled with Chickens round it. When your lamb is boiled pour over it parfley and butter, with coddled goofeberries, fo lay the chick- ens round your lamb, and pour over the chickens a little white fricaflee fauce. Garnifh your difh with fippets and lemon. This is proper fora top difh. 45. - / Fricassee of Lamb white. Take a leg of lamb, half road it, when it is cold cut it in flices, put it into a flew-pan with a little white gravy, a flialol fit red line, a little nutmeg, fait, and a few fhred capers; let it boil over the dove2 9 whilft the lamb is enough ; to thicken your lauce, take three fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two eggs, a little fhred parfley, and beat them well together, then put it into your (lew-pan and (hake it vvhiUl it is thick, but don’t let it boil; if this do not make it thick, put in a little flour and butter, fo lerve it up. Garnifh your difh with muihrooms, oyilers apd lemons. 46. A brown Fricassee of Lamb. Take a leg of lamb, cut it in thin dices and feafon it with pepper and fait, then fry it brown with but- ter, when it is fried put it into your llew-pan, with a little brown gravy, an ancho\y, a fpoonful or two of white wine or claret, grate in a little nutmeg, and fet it over the dove, thicken your fauce with flour and butter, Garnifh your difh with mufhrooms, oy- ilers and lemon. 47- To make Pig eat like La nib in J Vinter. Take a pig about a month old and drefs it, lay it down to the fire, when the Ikiu begins to harden you mud take it ofl by pieces, and when you have taken all the (kin off, draw it, and when it is cold cut it in quarters, and lard it with parfley then roalt it for me. 48. IIow to stew a Hare. Take a young hare, wadi and wipe it well, cut the legs into two or three pieces, and all the other parts the fame bignefs, beat them all flat with a pade-pin, feafon it with nutmeg and fait, then flour it over, and fry it in butter over a quick fire ; when you have fried it put it into a flew-pnn, with about a pint of gravy, two or three fpoonfuls qf claret and c 330 a fmall anchovy, fo (hake it up with butter and flour, you mud not let it boil in the (lew-pan, for it will make it cut hard, then ferve it up. Garnifh your difh with crifp parfley. 49- How to Jug a Hare. Take a young hare, cut her in pieces as you did for ilewing, and beat it well, feafon it with the fame feafoningyou did before, put it into a pitcher or any other clofe pot, with half a pound of butter, fet it in a pot of boiling water, dop up the pitcher clofe with a cloth, and lay upon it fome weight for fear it fhould fall on one fide ; it will take about two hours in dewing ; mind your pot be full of water, and keep it boiling all the time; when it is enough take the gravy from it, clear off the fat, and put her into your gravy in a dew-pan with a fpoonful or two of white wine, a little juice of lemon, fhred lemon-peel and mace; you mud thicken it up as you would a white fricafi'ee. Garnifii your difh with fippets and lemon. 50. To roast a Hare with a pudding in the belly. When you have wafhed the hare, nick the legs in the joints, and ikewer them on both fides, which will keep her from drying in the roalting ; when you have fkcwered her, put the pudding into her belly, bade her with nothing but butter ; put a little water in the dripping-pan ; you mud not bade it with the water at all. When your hare is enough, take the gravy out of the dripping-pan, and thicken it up with a lit- tle flour and butter for the (auce.31 To make a Pudding for the Hare. Take the liver, a little beef fuet, fweet-marjoram and pariley (bred fmall, with bread crumbs and two eggs ; feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, mix all together, and if it be too (lift put 4 in a fpoonful or two of cream. You mult not boil the liver. .5 1. A brown Fricassee of Rabbits. Take a rabbit, cut the legs in three pieces each, and the remainder of the rabbit the fame bignefs, beat them thin and fry them in butter over a quick fire, when they are fried put them into a ltew-pan with a little gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a little nut- meg : then fhake it up with a little flour and butter. Garnifli your difli with crifp parfley. 52. A white Fricassee oj Rabbits. Take a couple of young rabbits and half roafl them ; when they are cold take off the fkin, and cut the rabbits in fmall pieces (only take the white part) when you have cut it in pieces, put it into a ilew- pan with white gravy, a fmall anchovy, a little onion, fhred mace, and lemon-peel, fet it over a itove, and let it have one boil, then take a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, a lump of butter, a little juice of lemon, and fhred parfley ; put them all together into a itew- pan, and fhake them over the fire whilft they be as white as cream ; you mult not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. Garnifli your difh with Ihred lemon and pickles. 53. IIow to make pulled Rabbits. Take two young rabbits, boil them very tender,32 and take off all the white meat, and pull off the flcin, then pull it all in fhives, and put it into your ftew- pan with a little white gravy, a fpoonful of white wine, a little nutmeg and fait to your taftc ; thicken it up as you would a white fricaffe , but put in no parfley ; when you ferve it up lay the heads in the middle. Garnifh your difli with fhred lemon and pickles. 54. To dress Rabbits to look like Moor- Game. Take a young rabbit, when it is cafed cut off the wings and the head ; leave the neck of your rabbit as long as you can ; when you cafe it you mud leave on the feet, pull off the flcin, leave on the claws, fo double your rabbit and fleewer it like a fowl ; put a fkewer at the bottom through the legs and neck, and tie it with a firing, it will prevent its flying open ; when you difh it up make the fame fauce as you would do for partridges. Three are enough for one difli. 35. To make while Scotch Col/ops. Take about four pounds of a fdlet of veal, cut it in fmall pieces as thin as you can, then take a llew- pati, butter it well over, and fliake a little flour over it, then lay your meat in piece by piece, while all your pan be covered ; take two or three blades of mace, and a little nutmeg, fet your Itcw-pan over the fire, tol's it up together till all your meat be white, then take half a pint of ltrong veal broth, which mult be ready made, a quarter of a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs, mix all thefe together, put it to your meat, keeping it tolling all the time, till they juft33 boil up, then they are enough ; the laft thing you do fqueeze in a little lemon. You may put in oyfters, mufhtooms, or what you will to make it rich. 56. To boil Ducks with Onion Sauce. Take two fat ducks, feafon them with a little pep- per and fait, and flcewer them up at both ends, and boil them whillt they are tender ; take four or five large onions and boil them in milk and water, change the water two or three times in the boiling, when tiiey are enough chop them very fmali, and rub them through a hair-fieve with the back of a fpoon, till you have rubbed them quite through, then melt a. little butter, putin your onions and a little lalt, and pour it upon your ducks. Garnilh your difh with onions and fippets. 57. To stezv Ducks either wild or tame. Take two ducks and half roaft them, cut them up as you would do for eating, then put them into a ftev. -pan with a little brown gravy, a glafs of claret, two anchovies, a fmali onion Hired very fine, and a little fait ; thicken it up with flour and butter, fo ferve it up. Garnilh your difh with a little raw onion and fippets, 58. To make a white Fricassee of Chickens. Take two or three chickens, half roaft. them, cut them up as you would do tor eating, and fkin them ; put them into a ltew-pan ,vith a little white gravy, juice of lemon, two anchovies, Hired mace and nut- meg, then boil it; take the yolks of three eggs, a little fweet cream and Hired parfley, put them into your ltew-pan with a lump of butter and a little fait ;34 fhake them all the while they are over the ftove, and be fure you do not let them boil left they fhould cur- dle. Garnilh your difh with fippets and lemon. 59. IIozo to make a hr oxen Fricassee oj Chickens. Take two or more chickens, as you would have your difh in bignefs, cut them up as you do for eating, and flat them a little with a pafte-pin ; fry them a light brown, and put them into your llew-pan with, a little gravy, a fpoonful or two of* white wine, a little nutmeg and fait ; thicken it up with flour and butter. Garnifh your difh with fippets and crifp parfley. 6'0. Chicken Surprise. Take half a pound of rice, fet it over a fire in foft water, when it is half boiled put in two or three fmall chickens truffed, with two or three blades of mace, and a little fait ; take a piece of bacon about three inches fquare, and boil it in water whilft almoft enough, then take it out, pare off the outlides, and put it into the chickens and rice to boil a little toge- ther ; (you muft not let the broth be over thick with rice) then take up your chickens, lay them on a difh, pour over them the rice, cut your bacon in thin flices to lay round your chickens, and upon the breaft of each a flice. This is proper for a fide difh. 6" 1. To boil Chickens. Take four or five fmall chickens, as you would have your difh in bignefs; if they be fmall ones you may feald them, it will make them whiter ; draw them ; and take out the breaft bone before you35 fcald them ; when you have dreffed them, put them into milk and water, wafh them, trufs them, and cut off the heads and necks ; if you drefs them the night before you ufe them, dip a cloth in milk and wrap 'them in it, which will make them white ; you mult boil them in milk and water, with a little fait; half an hour or lefs will boil tliem. To make Sauce jor the Chickens. Take the necks, gizzards and livers, boil them in water, when they are enough ftiairi off the gravy, and put to it a fpoonful of oylter-pickle ; take the li- vers, break them fmall, mix a little gravy, and rub them through a hair-fieve with the back ot a fpoon, then put to it a fpoonful of cream, a little lemon and lemon-peel grated; thicken it up with butter and flour. Let yourfauce be no thicker than cream, which pour upon your chickens. Garnilh your dilh with fippets, mufhrooms, and flices of lemon. They are proper for a fide dilh or a top dilh, either at noon or night. 612. I{o?v to boil a Turkey. When your turkey is dreffed and drawn, trufs her, cut off her feet, take down the breaff bone with a knite, and few up the Ikin again ; ftuff the breaff with a white fluffing. flow to make the Huffing.—Take the fweetbread of veal, boil it, Hired it fine, with a little beef-fuet, a handful of bread crumbs, a little lemon-peel, a part of the liver, a lpoonful or two of cream, with nutmeg, pepper, fait, and two eggs ■, mix all together and ftufl your turkey with part of the Huffing, (the reff you may either boil or fry to lay round it) dredge it36 with a little flour, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it in milk and water. If it be a young turkey, an hour will boil it. Howto make Sauce for the Turkey.—Take a lit- tle fmall white gravy, a pint of oyfters, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little juice of lemon, and fait to your tafte, thicken it up with flour and butter, then pour it over your turkey and ferve it up ; lay round your turkey fried oyfters and the forced-meat. Garnifhyour difh with oyfters, muftirooms, and flices of lemon. 63. How to make another Sauce for a Turkey. Take a little ftrong white gravy, with fome of the whiteft celery you can get, cut it about an inch long, boil it whilft it be tender, and put it into the gravy, with two anchovies, a little lemon-peel fhred, two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little (bred mace, and a fpoonful of white wine ; thicken it up with flour and butter ; if you diflike the celery you may put in the liver as you did for chickens. 6*4. How to roast a Turkey. Take a turkey, drefs and trufs it, then take down the breall bone. To make fluffing for thebreaft.—Take bcef-fuet,the liver (bred fine and bread crumbs, a little lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, a little Aired paifley, a fpoonful or two of cream, and two eggs, put heron a fpit and roaft her before a flow fire ; you may lard your turkey with fat bacon ; if the turkey be young, an hour and a quarter will roall it. l'or37 the fauce, take a little white gravy, an onion, a few bread-crumbs, and a little whole pepper, let them boil well together, put to them a little flour and a lump of butter, which pour upon the turkey ; you may lay round your turkey forcedmeat balls. Garnifh your difh with llices of lemon. 65. To make a rich Turkey Pic. Take a young turkey, and bone it, only leave in the thigh bones and fliort pinions ; take a large fowl and bone it, a little (bred mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, and feafon the turkey and fowl in the inflde ; lay the fowl in the inflde of the low part of the turkey, and fluff' the bread with a little white fluffing (the fame white fluffing as you made for the boiled turkey) take a deep difh, lay a pafte over it, and lay nO pafte in the bottom ; lay in the turkey, and lay round it a few forcedmeat balls, put in half a pound of butter, and a jill of water, then clofe up the pie, an hour and a half will bake it ; when it comes from the oven take off the lid, put in a pint of flewed oyfters, and the yolks of flx or eight eggs, lay them at equal * diflances round the turkey ; you muff not flew your oyIters in gravy, but in water, and pour them upon your turkey’s bre£ft ; lay round fix or eight artichoke bottoms fried, io l'erve it up without the lid ; you muft take the fat out of the pie before you put in the oyffers. 6'6'. To make a Turkey A-la-dauhe. Take a large turkey and tads it ; take down the bread bone and fluff it in the bread with fome ffuff- ing, as you did the roalt turkey ; lard it with bacon, then rub the flein of the turkey with the yolk of an D38 egg, and drew over it a little nutmeg, pepper, fait,, and a few bread-crumbs, then put it into a copper difh and fend it to the oven , when you difh it up* make for the turkey brown gravy fauce, fhred into» your fauce a few oyflers and mufhrooms; lay round artichoke-bottoms fried, ftewed pallets, forcedmeat balls, and a little crifp bacon. Garnilh your difh with pickled mufhrooms, and dices of lemon. This is a proper difh for a remove. 67. Totted Turkey. Take a turkey, bone it as you did for the pie, and feafon it very well in the infide and outfide with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, then put it into a pot that you defign to keep it in, put over it a pound of butter, when it is baked draw from it the gravy and take of! the fat, then fqueeze it down very tight in the pot, and to keep it down lay upon it a weight; when it is cold take part of the butter that came from it, and clarify a little more with it to cover your turkey, and keep it in a cool place for ufe ; you may put a fowl in the belly if you pleafe. Ducks orgeefe are potted the fame way. 68. IIozv to jug Pi geo us. Take fix or eight pigeons and trufs them, f£kfon them with nutmeg, pepper aud fait. To make a fluffing.—Take the livers and fhred them with bcef-fuct, bread-crumbs, parfley, fweet- marjoram, and two eggs, mix all together, tiien fluff your pigeons, fewing them up at both ends, and put them into your jug with the bread downwards, with half a pound of butter ; flop up the jug clofe with k. cloth fo that no fleam can get out, then fet them ib39 ti pot of water to boil: they will take about two hours ftewing; mind you keep your pot full of wa- ter, and boiling all the time; when they are enough, clear from them the gravy, and take the fat clean off i put to your gravy a ipoonfulof cream, a little lemon- peel, an anchovy Hired, a few mufhrooms, and a lit- tle white wine, thicken it with a little flour and but- ter, then difh up your pigeons, and pour over them the fauce. Garnilh the dilh with mufhrooms and llices of lemon. This is proper for a fide dilh. 69. Mirranaded Pigeons. Take fix pigeons, and trufs them as you would do for baking, break the bread bones, feafon and fluff them as you did for jugging, put them into a little deep difh and lay over them half a pound of butter ; put into your difh a little water. Take half a pound of rice, cree it foft as you would do for eating, and pour it upon the back of a fieve, let it ftand while it is cold, then take a fpoon and flat it like pafte on your hand, and lay on the bread of every pigeon a cake; lay round your difh fome puff-pafte not over thin, and fend them to the oven ; about half an hour will bake them. This is proper at noon for a fide difh. 70. To stew Pigeons. Take your pigeons, feafon and fluff them, flat the bread bones, and trufs them up as you would do for baking, dredge them over with a little flour, and fry them in butter, turning them round till all lides be brown, then put them into a dew-pan with as much brown gravy as will cover them, and let them ilevr D 240 while your pigeons be enough ; then take part of the gravy, an anchovy Aired, a little catchup, a fmall * onion, or a fhalot, and a little juice of lemon for fauce, ' pour it over your'pigeons, and lay round them forced- 5 meat balls and crifp bacon. Garnilh your dilh with crilp parfley and lemon. 71. To broil Pigeons whole. Take your pigeons, feafon and Huff them with the fame fluffing you did jugged pigeons, broil them ei- ther before the fire or in an oven ; when they are enough, take the gravy from them, and take off the at, then put to the gravy two or three fpoonfuls of water, a little boiled parfley fhred, and thicken your fauce. Garnifh your difh with crifp parfley. 72. Boiled Pigeons with fricassee sauce. Take your pigeons, and when you have drawn and t ruffed them up, break the bread bones, and lay them in milk and water to make them white, tie them in a cloth and boil them in milk and water; when you difh them up put to them white fricaflee fauce, only add- ing a few Hired mufhrooms. Garnifh with crifp par- fley and fippets. 73. To pot Pigeons. Take your pigeons arid fkewer them with their feet crofs over the bread, to Hand up ; feafon them with pepper and fait and road them ; fo put them into your pot, fetting the feet up ; when they are cold cover them up with clarified butter. 74. To stciv Pallets. 1 akc three or four large bead pallets and boil them41 very tender, blanch and cut them in long pieces the length of your finger, then in fmall bits The crofs way ; fhake them up with a little good gravy and a lump of butter; feafon them with a little nutmeg and fait, put in a fpoonful of white wine, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs as you do a white fricaffee. 75. To make a fricassee of Pig's Ears. Take three or four pig’s ears, according as you would have your difh in bignefs, clean and boil them very tender, cut them in lmall pieces the length of your finger, and fry them with butter till they be brown; fo put them into a ftew-pan with a little brown gravy, a lump of butter, a fpoonful of vine- gar, and a little muftard and fait, thickened with flour ; take two or three pig’s feet and boil them very tender, fit for eating, then cut them in two and take out the large bones, dip them in egg, and ilrew over them a few bread-crumbs, feafon them with pepper and fait; you may either fry or broil them, and lay them in the middle of your difh with the pig’s ears. They are proper for a fide difh. 76. To make a fricassee of Tripes. Take the whiteft feam tripes you can get, and cut them in long pieces, put them into a ifew-pan with a little good gravy, a few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter, a little vinegar to your tafle, and a little muf- tard if you like it; fhake it up all together with a lit- tle fhred parfley. Garnifh your difh with fippets. This is proper for a fide difh. J B 377. To make a fricassee of Veal Sweet-- ; breads. Take five or fix veal fweetbreads, according as you would have your difih in bignefs, and boil them, in water, cut them in thin flices the length way, dip them in egg, feafon them with pepper and fait, fry them a light brown ; then put them into a ftew-pan with a little brown gravy, a fpoonful of white wine or juice of lemon, which you pleafe ; thicken it up with flour and butter, and ferve it up. Garnifh ydur difh with crifp parfley. 78. To make a white fricassee of Tripes to eat like Chickens. Take the whitell and the thickeft feam tripe you can get, cut the white part in thin flices, put it into a ftew-pan with a little white gravy, juice of lemon, and lemon-peel fhred, alfo a fpoonful of white wine ; take the yolks of two or three eggs and beat them very well, put to them a little thick cream, Hired par- fley, and two or three chives if you have any ; Hiake all together over the Hove while it be as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil for fear it curdle. Garnifh your difli with lippets, fliced lemon or mu th rooms, and ferve it up. 7.9. To make a brown fricassee of Eggs. Take eight or ten eggs, according to the bignefs you defign your diih, boil them hard, put them in wa- ter, take off the fhell, fry them in butter whilft they be a deep brown, put them into a ftew-pan with a little brown gravy, and a lump of butter, fo thicken it up43 middle of the difh, then take the other, cut them in two, and fet them with the fmall ends upwards round the difh ; fry fome fippets and lay round them. Gar- nifh your difh with crifp parfley. This is proper for a fide difh in Lent, or any other time. 80. To make a white fricassee of Eggs. Take ten or twelve eggs, boil them hard and peel them, put them in a ftew-pan with a little white gra- vy, take the yolks of two or three eggs, beat them very well, and put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful of white wine, a little juice of le- mon, fhred parfley, and fait to your tafte ; fliake all together over the ftove till it be as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil ; take your eggs and lay one part whole on the difh ; the reft cut in halves and quarters, and lay them round your difh ; you muft not cut them till you lay them on the difh. Garnifli your difh with lippets, and ferve it up. 81. To stew Eggs in Gravy. Take a little gravy, pour it into a little pewter difh, and fet it over a ftove, when it is hot break in as many eggs as will cover the difh bottom, keep pouring the gravy over them with a fpoori till they are white at the top, when they are enough flrew over them a little fait ; fry fome fquare lippets of bread in butter, prick them with the fmall ends up- wards, and ferve them up. They are proper for a fide difh at fupper.44 &2. How to Collar a piece of Beef to eat Cold. Take a flank of beef or pale bone, which you can- get, bone it, and take off the inner fkin ; nick your beef about an inch diftance, but mind you do not cutt through the /kin of the outiide ; then take two ounces of faltpetre and beat it fmall, and take a large hand-■ ful of common fait and mix them together, firft fprinkling your beef over with a little water, and lay it in an earthen difh, then throw over your fait, fo let it /land four ©r five days, then take a pretty large quantity of-all forts of mild fweet herbs, pick and /hred them very fmall, take fome bacon and cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your finger, then take your beef and lay one layer of bacon in every nick \ and another of the greens ; when you have done, fea- fon your beef with a little beaten mace, pepper, fait, and nutmeg ; you may add a little neat’s tongue and an anchovy in fome of the nicks; fo roll it up tight, bind it in a cloth with coarfe inkle round it, put it into a large ftevv-pot and cover it with water ; let the beef lie with the end downwards, put to it the pickle that was in the beef when it lay in fait, fet it in a flow oven all the night, then take it out and bind it tight, and tie up both ends, the next day take it out of the cloth, and put it into pickle ; you mud take the fame pickle it was baked in ; take off the fat and boil the pickle, put in a handful of fait, a few bay leaves, a little whole Jamaica and black pepper, a quart of dale llrong beer, a little vinegar or alegar ; if you make the pickle very good, it will keep five or fix months very well ; if your beef be not too much baked it will cut all in diamonds.45 83. To roll a Breast of Veal to eat cold. Take a large breaft of veal, fat and white, bone it and cut it in two, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pep- per and fait, on one part you may ftrinkle a few fweet herbs, fhred fine, roll them up tight, bind them well with coarfe inkle,- fo boil it an hour and a half; you may make the lame pickle as you did for the beef, excepting the llrong beer ; when it is enough take it up, and bind it as you did the beef, io hang it up whillt it be cold. 84. To pot Tongues. Take your tongues and fait them with faltpetre, common fait and bay fait, let them lie ten days, then take them out and boil them whilft they will blanch, cut off the lower part of the tongues, then feafon them with mace, pepper, nutmeg and fait, put them into a pot and fend them to the oven, and the low part of your tongues that you cut off lay upon your tongues, and one pound of butter, let them bake whilft they are tender, then take them out of the pot, throw over them a little more feafoning, put them into the pot you defign to keep them in, prefs them down very tight, lay over them a weight, and let them ftand all night, then cover them with clari- fied butter. You muft not fait your tongues as you do for hanging. 85. I low to pot Venison. Take your venifon and cut it in thin pieces, feafon it with pepper and fait, put it into your pot, lay over it fome butter and a little beef fuet, let it ftand all night in the oven ; when it is baked beat it in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, put in part of the gravy,46 and all the fat you take from it; when you have beat it put it into your pot, then take the fat lap of a fhoulder of mutton, take off the outflein, and roaft it, when it is roafted and cold, cut it in long pieces the thicknefs of your finger ; when you put the veni- fon into the pot, put it in at three times, betwixt every one lay the mutton acrofs your pot, at an equal diftance; if you cut it the right way it will cut all in diamonds; leave fome of the venifon to lay on the top, and cover it with clarified butter; fo keep it for ufe. 86. To pot all sorts of JVild-Fowl. When the wild-fowl are dreffed take a pafte-pin, and beat them on the breaft till they are flat ; before you roaft them feafon them with mace, nutmeg, pep- per and fait; you muft not roaft them over much; when you draw them feafon them on the outfide, and fet them on one end to drain out the gravy ; and put them into your pot; you may put in two layers; if you prefs them very flat, cover them with clarified butter when they are cold. 87. How to pot Beef. Take two pounds of the flice or buttock, feafon it with about two ounces of faltpetre and a little com- mon fait, let it lie two or three days, fend it to the oven, and feafon it with a little pepper, fait and mace ; lay over your beef half a pound of butter or beef fuet, and let it Hand all night in the oven to ftew ; take from it the gravy and the butter, and beat them (with the beef) in a bowl, then take a quarter of a pound of anchovies, bone them and beat them too with a little of the gravy ; if it be not fea-47 foned enough to your tafle, put to it a little more fea- foning ; put it clofe down in a pot, and when it is cold cover it up with butter, and keep it for ufe. 88. To ragout a Rump of Beef. Take a rump of beef, lard it with bacon and fpices, betwixt the larding, ftuff it with forcedmeat, made of a pound of veal, three quarters of a pound of beef- fuet, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon boiled and Hired well by itfelf, a good quantity of parlley, win- ter favoury, thyme, fweet marjoram, and an onion, mix all thefe together, feafon it with mace, cloves, cinnamon, fait, Jamaica and black pepper, and fome grated bread, work the forcedmeat up with three whites and two yolks of eggs, then fluff it, and lay fome rough fuet in a ftew-pan with your beef upon it, let it fry till it be brown, then put in fome water, a bunch of fweet herbs, a large onion, fluffed with cloves, fliced turnips, carrots cut as large as the yolk of an egg, fome whole pepper and fait, half a pint ol claret, cover it clofe, and let it flew fix or feven hours over a gentle fire, turning it very often. 89- How to make Sauce for it. Take truffles, morels, fweet-breads, diced pallets boiled tender, three anchovies, and fome lemon peel, put thefe into fome brown gravy and flew them ; if you do not think it thick enough, dredge in a little flour, and jufl before you pour it on your beef put in a little white wine and vinegar, and ferve it up hot. 90. Sauce for Boiled Rabbits. Take a few onions, boil them thoroughly, fhifting them in water often, mix them well together with a48 little melted butter and water. Some add a little pulp of apple and multard. 91. To salt a Leg of Mutton to eat like Ham. Take a leg of mutton, an ounce of faltpetre, two ounces of bay fait, rub it in very well, take a quar- ter of a pound of coarfe fugar, mix it with two or three handfuls of common fait, then take and fait it very well, and let it lie a week, fait it again, and let it lie another week, fo hang it up, and keep it for ufe, after it is dry ufe it, the fooner the better ; it won’t keep fo long as ham. 92. IIow to salt Ham or Tongues. Take to a middling ham, two ounces of faltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay fait, beat them together, and rub them on your ham very well, before you fait it on the infide, let your fait before the fire to warm ; to every ham take half a pound of coarfe fugar, mix it with a little of the fait, and rub it in very well, let it lie for a week or ten days ; then fait it again very well, and let it lie another week or ten days then hang it to dry, not very near the lire, nor over much in the air. Take your tongues and clean them, and cut off the root, then take two ounces hf faltpetre, a quar- ter of a pound of bay fait well beaten, three or four tongues, according as they are in bignefs, lay them on a place by fhcmfelves, for if you lay them under your bacon it flats your tongues, and fpoils them ; lalt them very well, and let them lie ns long as the hams with the Ik in fide downwards : you may do a rump of beef the fame way, only leave out the lugar.49 93. To boil a Knuckle of Veal with Rice. Take a knuckle of veal and a fcrag of mutton, put them in a kettle with as much water as will cover them, and half a pound of rice; before you put in the rice let the kettle be fkimmed very well, it will make the rice the whiter ; put in a blade or two of mace, and a little fait, fo let them boil all together, til! the rice and meat be thoroughly enough ; you mull not let the broth be over thick ; ferve it up with the knuckle in the middle of the difh and fippets round it. 94. 7o stew Ducks whole. Take ducks when they are drawn and clean wafhed, put them into a llew-pan with flrong broth, claret, mace, whole pepper, an onion, an anchovy, and lemon peel; when well Hewed put in a piece of but- ter and fome grated bread to thicken it ; lay round them erifp bacon and forcedmeat balls. Garnilh with fhalots. 95i To pot a Hare. Take a hare, cafe, wafh, arid wipe her dry, cut her in pieces, keep out all the bloody parts and fkins, fealon it with mace, pepper and fait, put it into a pot, and lay over it a pound of beef-fuet, let it Hand all night in a flow oven ; when it is baked take out all the bones, and chop it all together in a howl with the fat and gravy that comes from it, put it tight down into a pot, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. It you have no diflike to bacon, you rnav put in two or three llices when you fend it to the oven. E50 96. How to make a Iiare-P'te. Parboil the hare, take out all the bones, and beatt the meat in a mortar with fome fat pork or new ba- con, then foak it in claret all night, the next day- take it out, feafon it with pepper, fait and nutmeg, then lay the back bone in the middle of the pie, put the meat about it with about three quarters of a pound of butter, and bake it in ptiff-pafte, but lay no pafte in the bottom of the dilh. 97* To make Ilare-Pie another way. Take the flelh of a hare after it is fkinned and firing it; take a pound of beef-ftiet or marrow fhred fmall, with fweet marjoram, parfley and fhalots, take the hare, cut it in pieces, feafon it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg, then bake it either in cold or hot pafle, and when it is baked open it and put to it fome melted butter. 98. To make Pig Royal. Take a pig and roafl it the fame way as you did for lamb, when you draw it you mull not cut it up ; when it is cold you mull lard it with bacon ; cut not your layers too fmall, if you do they will melt away, cut them about an inch and a quarter long; you mult put one row down the back, and one on either fide, then flrinklc it over with a few bread crumbs and a little fait, and fet it i« the oven, an hour will bake it, but mind your oven be not too hot ; you mull take another pig of a lefs lize, roall it, cut it up, and lie it on each fide : the fauce you make for a roall pig will ferve for both. This is proper for a bottom difh at a grand enter- tainment.51 99- To roast Veal a savoury way. When you have fluffed your veal, ftrew fome of the ingredients over it; when it is roafled make your fauce of what drops from the meat, put an anchovy in water, and when diffolved pour it into the dripping- pan with a large lump of butter and oyflers; tofs it up with flour to thicken it. 100. To make a Ham-Pie. Cut the ham round, and lay it in water all night, boil it tender as you would do for eating, take off the Ikin, flrew over it a little pepper, and bake it in a deep difh, put to it a pint of water, and half a pound of butter ; you mud bake it in puff-pafte ; but lay no pafte in the bottom of the dilh ; when you fend it to the table fend it without a lid. It is proper for a top or bottom difh either fummer or winter. 101. To make a Neat's Tongue-Pie. Take two or three tongues (according as you would have your pie in bignefs) cut off the roots and low parts, take three ounces of faltpetre, a little bay fait, rub them very well, lay them on an earthen difh with the fkin fide downwards, let them lie for a week or ten days, whilfl they be very red, then boil them as tender as you would have them for eating, blanch and feafon with a little pepper and fait, flat them as much as you can, bake them in puff-palte in a deep difh, but lay no pafte in the bottom, put to them a little gravy, and half a pound of butter ; lay your tongues with the wrong fide upwards, when they are baked turn them, and lerve it up without a lid. E 252 102. To broil Sheep or Hog's Tongues. Boil, blanch, and fplit your tongues, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, then dip them in egg, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and broil them while they are brown ; ferve them up with a little gravy and butter. 103. To Pickle Pork. Cut off the leg, fhoulder pieces, the bloody neck and the fpare-rib, as bare as you can, then cut the middle pieces as large as they can lie in the tub, fait them with faltpetre, bay fait, arid white fait; your faltpetre mult be beat fmall, and mixed with the other falts ; half a peck of white fait, a quart of bay fait, and half a pound of faltpetre, is enough for a large hog ; you mull rub the pork very well with your fait, then lay a thick layer of fait all over the tub, then a piece of pork, and do fo till all your pork is in ; lay the fkin fide downwards, fill up the hollows and fides of the tub with little pieces that are not bloody, prefs all down as clofe as pofiible, and lay on a good layer of fait on the top, then lay on the legs and fhoulder pieces, which mult be ufed firit, the red will keep two years if not pulled up, nor the pickle poured from it.—You mud obferve to fee it be co- vered with pickle. 104. To fricassee Calf's Feet white. Drefs the calf’s feet, boil them as you would do for eating, take out the long bones, cut them in two, and put them into a ltew-pan with a little white gravy, and a fpoonful or two of white wine; take the yolks of two or three eggs, two or three ipoon-53 fuls of cream, grate in a little nutmeg and fait, and fhake all together with a lump of butter. Garnilh your difh with dices of lemon and currants, and fo ferve them up. 105. To roll a Pi^s Head to cat like Brawn. Take a large pig’s head, cut off the groin ends, crack the bones and put it in water, ftiift it once or twice, cut off the ears, then boil it fo tender that the bones will flip out, nick it with a knife in the thick part of the head, throw over it a pretty large handful of fait; take half a dozen of large neat’s feet, boil them while they be foft, fplit them, and take out all the bones and black bits; take a ftrong coarle cloth, and lay the feet with the flcin fide down- wards, with all the loofe pieces on the infide ; prefs them with your hand to make them of an equal thick- refs, lay them at that length that they will reach round the head, and throw over them a handful of fait, then lay the head acrofs, one thick part one way, and the other another, that the fat may appear alike at both ends; leave one foot out to lay at the top to make a lantern to reach round, bind it with filleting as you would do brawn, and tie it very clofe at both ends ; you may take it out of the cloth the next day, take oft the filleting and wafh it, wrap it about again very tight, and keep it in brawn pickle. This has often been taken for real brawn. J Of). I low to fry Calf's Feet in Butter. Fake four calF£ feet and blanch them, boil them as you would do for eating, take out the large bones E 354 and cut them in two, beat a fpoonful of wheat flour and four eggs together, put to it a little nutmeg, pep- per and fait, dip in your calf's feet, apd fry them in butter a light brown, and lay them upon your difh with a little melted butter over them. Garnilh with flices of lemon and fervethem up. 107- To make Savoury-Patties. Take the kidney of a loin of veal before it be roaft- ed, cut it in thin flices, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, and make your patties ; lay in every patty a flice, and either bake or fry them. You may make marrow patties the fame way. 108. To make Egg-Pics. Take and boil half a dozen eggs, half a dozen ap- ples, a pound and a half of beef-luet, a pound of cur- rants, and Ihred them, fo feafon it with mace, nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and fweet-meats if you pleale. % 109. To make a srceet Chicken-Pie. Break the chicken bones, cut them in little bits, feafon them lightly with mace and ialt, take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and quartered, five ar- tichoke bottoms, half a pound of raifins of the fun Honed, half a pound of citron, half a pound of lemon, half a pound of marrow, a few forcedmeat balls, and half a pound of currants well cleaned, fo make a light puff-palle, but put no pafte in the bottom : when it is baked take a little white wine, a little juice of either orange or lemon, the \«ik of an egg well beat, and mix them together, make it hot and put it into your pic; when you ferve it up take the fan e55 ingredients you ufe for a lamb or veal pie, only leave out the artichokes. 110. To roast Tongues. Cut off the roots of two tongues, take three ounces of faltpetre, a little bay fait and common fait, rub them very well, let them lie a week or ten days to make them red, but not fait, fo boil them tender as they will blanch, drew over them a few bread crumbs, fet them before the fire to brown, and turn them to make them brown on every fide. To make Sauce for the Tongues. Take a few bread crumbs, and as much water a3 will wet them, then put in claret till they be red, and a little beaten cinnamon, fweeten it to your take, put a little gravy on the difh with your tongues, and the fweet fauce in two bafons, fet them on each fide, fo ferve them up. 111. To fry Calf's Feet in Eggs. Boil your calf’s feet as you would do for eating, take out the long bones and fplit them in two, when they are cold feafon them with a little pepper, fait and nutmeg ; take three eggs, put to them a fpoon- ful of flour, fo dip the feet in it and fry them in but- ter ; you mud have a little gravy and butter for fauce. Garniih with currants, fo ferve them up. 112. To make a Minced-Pie of Call's Feet. T ake two or three calf’s feet, and boil them as you would do for eating, take out the long bones, Aired the meat very line, put to them double their weight56 ©f beef-fuet (bred fine, and about a pound of currants well cleaned, a quarter of a pound of candied orange and citron cut in fmall pieces, half a pound of fugar, a little fait, a quarter of an ounce of mace and a large nutmeg, beat them together, put in a little juice of lemon or verjuice to your tafte, a glafs of mountain wine or fack, which you pleafe, fo mix all together $ bake them in pufF pafte. 113. To roast a JVoodcock. When you have dreffed your woodcock, and drawn it under the leg, take out the bitter bit, put in the train again ; whilft the woodcock is roalling fet un- der it an earthen difh with either water in or fmall gravy, let the woodcock drop into it, take the gravy and put to it a little butter, and thicken it with flour; your woodcock will take about ten minutes roalling if you have a brifk fire; when you difh it up lay round it wheat bread toalls, and pour the fauce over the toaft ; and ftrve it up. You may roaft a partridge the fame way, only add crumb fauce in a bafon- 1)4. To wake a Calf's Head-Pie. Take a calf’s head and clean it, boil it as you would do for hafhiug, when it is cold cut it in thin llices and feafon it with a little black pepper, nut- meg, fait,. a few fined capers, a few oyftcrs and cockles, two or three mufhrooras, and green lemon peel, mix them all well together, put them into your pic ; it mull not be a Handing pie, but baked in a flat pewter difh, with a rim ot puff-paile round the edge ; when you have filled the pie with the meat, lay on forccdineat balls, and the yolks of fome hard51 eggs, put in a little fmall gravy and butter ; when it comes from the oven , take- off the lid, put into it a little white wine to your taftej and (hake up the pie, fo ferve it up without the lid. 115. To make a Calf's Foot-Pie. Take two or three calf’s feet, according as you would have your pie in bignefs, boil and bone them as you would do for eating, and when cold cut them in thin dices; take about three quarters of a pound of beef-fuet fhred line, half a pound of raifins ffoned, half a pound of cleaned currants, a little mace and nutmeg, green lemon peel, fait, fugar, and candied lemon or orange, mis all together, and put them into a difh, make a good puff-pafte, but let there be no palle in the bottom of the difh; when it is baked, take off the lid, and fqueeze in a little lemon peel or verjuice, cut the lidjn ffppets and lay round. 116'. To make a Woodcock-Pie. Take three or four brace of woodcocks, according as you would have the pie in bignefs, drefs and fkewer them as you would do for roafting, draw them, and feafon the infide with a little pepper, fait and mace, but don’t w.a(h them, put the train into the belly again, but nothing elfe, for there is fomething in them that gives them a bitterer tafte in the baking than in the roalling, when you put them into the difh lay them with the bread downwards, beat them upon the bread as flat as you can ; you mud feafon them on the outfide as you do the infide; bake them in puff- pade, but lay none in the bottom of the difh, put to them a jill of gravy and a little butter ; you muff be very careful your pic be not too much baked ; wheno8 you ferve it up take off the lid, and turn the wood- cocks with the breads upwards. You may bake partridges the fame way. 117. To Pickle Pigeons. Take your pigeons and bone them; you mud be- gin to bone them at the neck and turn the fkin down- wards, when they are boned feafon them with pep- per, fait and nutmeg, few up both ends, and boil them in water and white wine vinegar, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper and fait; when they are enough take them out of the pickle, and boil it down with a little more fait; when it is cold put in the pigeons and keep them for ufe. 118. To make a szveet Veal-Pic. Take a loin of veal, cut off the thin part length- ways, cut the red in thin dices, as much as you have j occafion for, flat it with your bill, and cut off the I bone ends next the chine, feafon it with nutmeg and fait; take half a pound of raifins doned, and half a pound of currants well cleaned, mix all together, and lay a few of them at the bottom of the difh ; lay a layer of meat; and betwixt every layer lay on your fruit, but leave fome for the top ; you mud make a puff-pade, but lay none in the bottom of the difh ; when you have filled your pie, put in a jill of water and a little butter, when it is baked have a caudle to ' put into it. To make the caudle, fee receipt 177. 119. Minced-Pies another way. Take a pound of the fined feam tripes you can get, .t a pound and a half of beef-fuet, and chop them very.59 fine; a pound and a half of currants well cleaned, two, three, or four apples pared and Hired very fine, a little green lemon peel and mace Hired, a large nut- meg, a glafs of fack or brandy (which you pleafe) half a pound of fugar, and a little fait, fo mix. them well together, and fill your petty-pans, then ftick five or fix bits of candied lemon or orange in every petty- pan, cover them, and when baked they are fit for ufe. 120, To make a Savoury Chicken-Pie. Take half a dozen of fmall chickens, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait, both infide and out ; then take three or four veal fweetbreads, feafon them with the fame, and lay round them a few forcedmeat balls, put in a little water and butter ; take a little white gravy not over drong, Hired a few oyfters if you have any, and a little lemon peel, fqueeze in a ittle lemon juice, not to make it four ; if you have no oy Iters take the whiteft of your fweet-breads and boil them, cut them fmall arid put them into your gravy, thicken it with a little butter and flour ; when you open the pie, if there be any fat, Heim it off, and pour the fauce over the chickens’ brealts; fo ferve it up without a lid. 121. To roast a Haunch of Venison. Take a haunch of venifon and fpit it, then take a little bread-meal, knead and roll it very thin, lay it over the fat part of your venifon with a paper over it ; tie it round your venifon with a packthread ; if it be a large haunch it will take four hours roading, and a middling haunch three hours ; keep it balling- all the time you road it; when you difli it up put a little gravy in the difli, and fweet fauce in a bafon :6 0 half an hour before you draw your venifon take off the palte, bafte it, and let it be a little brown. 122. To make Sweet Patties. Take the kidney of a loin of veal with the fat, when roafled (hred it very fine, put to it a little (hred mace, nutmeg and fait, about half a pound of cur- rants, the juice of a lemon, and fugar to your taftc, then bake them in puff-pafte ; you may either fry or bake them. They are proper for a fide-difh. 123. To make Beef Rolls. Cut your beef thin as for Scotch collops, beat it very well, and feafon it with fait, Jamaica and white pepper, mace, nutmeg, fweet marjoram, parflev, thyme, and a little onion ihred fmall, rub them on the collops on one fide, then take long bits of beefi- fuet and roll in them, tying them up with a thread, flour them well, and fry them in butter very brown . then have ready fomc good gravy and flew them an hour and a half, llirring them often, and keep them covered, when they are enough take off the threads, and put in a little flour, with a good lump of butter, and fqueeze in fome lemon, then they are ready for ufe. 124. To make a Hcrrbig-Pie of I! kite Sail Herrings. Take five or fix fait herrings, wafh them very well, lav them in a pretty quanthj of water all night to take out the faltuefs, leafon them with a little black pepper, three or four middlng onions peeled and flucd very fine, lay one part ul them at the bottom of<51 the pie, and the other at the top ; to five or fix her- rings put in half a pound of butter, then lay in your herrings whole, only take off the heads; make them into a Handing pie with a thin cruit. 125. How to collar Pig. Take a large pig that is fat, about a month old, hill and drefs it, cut off the head, cut it in two down the back and bone it, then cut it in three or four pieces, wafh it in a little water to take out the blood : take a little milk and water juft warm, put in your pig, let it lie about a day and a night, fhift it two or three times in that time to make it white, then take it out, and wipe it very well with a dry cloth, and feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait; take a little (hred parfiey and ltrinkle it over two of the quarters, foroll them up in a fine foft cloth, tie it up at both ends, bind it tight with a little filleting or coarfe inkle, 3nd boil it in milk and water with a lit- tle fait; it will take about an hour and a half boiling, when it is enough bind it up tight in your cloth again, and hang it up whilft it be cold. For the pickle boil a ‘little milk and water, a few bay leaves and a little fait ; when it is cold take your pig out of the cloth and put it into the pickle ; yoN mull fhift it out of your pickle two or three times to make it white, the laft pickle make ftrong, and put in a little whole pepper, a pretty large handful of fait, a few bay leaves, and fo keep it for ufe. 126. To collar Salmon. Take the fide of a middling falmon, and cut off the head, take out all the bones and the oulfide, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, roll it tight Fup in a cloth, boil it, and bind it up with inkle ; it will take about an hour boiling; when it is boiled bind it tight again, when cold take it very carefully out of the cloth and bind it about with filleting ; you mull not take off the filleting but as it is eaten. Tq make Pickle to keep it in. Take two or three quarts of water, a jill of vinegar,, a little Jamaica pepper, and whole pepper, a large handful of fait, boil them all together, and when it is cold put in your falmon, fo keep it for ufe : if your pickle does not keep you muff renew it. You may collar pike the fame way. 127* To make an Oyster-Pie. Take a pint of the largelt oyllers you can get, clean them very well in their own liquor, if you have not liquor enough, add to them three or four fpoonfuls of water ; take the kidney of a loin of veal, cut it in thin 11 ices, and feafon it with a little pepper and fait, lay the dices in the bottom of the difii, (but there mull be no paile in the bottom of the diih) cover them with the oyllers, llrew over a little of the feafoning as you did for the yeal ; take the marrow of one or two bones, lay it over your oyllers and cover them with puff-paile ; when it is baked take off the lid, put into it a fpoonful or two of white wine, fhakeit iuj| all together, and ferve it up. »'It is proper for a fide-difh either for noon or night. 128. To batter Lobster and Crab. Ilrefs all the meat out of the belly and claws of your loblter, put it into a ftew-pan with two or three fpoonfuls of water, a fpoonful or two of white wure63 vinegar, a little pepper, fhred mace, a lump of but- ter, (hake it over the dove till it be very hot, but do riot let it boil, if you do it will oil; put it into your difh, and lay round it your fmall claws : it is as pro- per to put it in fcallop Ihells as on a difh. 139* To roast a Lobster. If your lobfter be alive tie it to the fpit, road and bade it for half an hour ; if it be boiled you mull put it in boiling water, and let it have one boil, then lie it in a dripping-pan and bade it; when you lay it upon the diAi, fplit the tail, and lay it on each fide, fo ferve it up with a little melted butter in a china cup. 130. To make a Quaking Pudding. Take eight eggs and beat them very well, put to them three fpoonfuls of London flour, a little fait, three jills of cream, and boil it with a dick of cin- namon and a blade of mace, when it is cold mix it to your eggs and flour, butter your cloth, and do not give it over much room in your cloth ; about half an hour will boil it; you mud turn it in the boiling, or the flour will fettle, fo ferve it up with a little melt- ed butter. 131. A limiting Pudding. O 03 Take a pound of fine flour, a pound of beef fuet Aired .fine, three quarters of a pound of currants well cleaned, a quartern of raifins doned and (hred, five eggs, a little lemon-peel Aired fine, half a nutmeg grated, a jill of cream, a little fait, about two fpoom fuls of fugar, and a little brandy, fo mix all well to-£>4 gether, and tie it up tight in your cloth ; it will take 1 two hours boiling ; you muft have a little white wine: 1 and butter for your fauce. 132. A Calf's Foot Pudding. Take two-calf’s feet, when they are cleaned, boil! < them as you would for eating ; take out all the: i bones ^ when they are cold fared them in a wooden i : bowl as fmall as bread crumbs ; then take the crumbs of a penny loaf, three quarters of a pound of beef ' fuet fared fine, grate in half a nutmeg, take half a pound of currants well wafaed, half a pound of rai- lins Honed and fared, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs and a little fait, mix them all together very well with as much cream as will wet them, fo butter your cloth and tie it up tight ; it will take two hours boiling ; you may if you pleafe flick it with a little orange and ferve it up. 133. A Sago Pudding. Take three or four ounces of fago, and wafa it in two or three waters, fet it on to boil in a pint of water, when you think it is enough take it up, fet it to cool, and take half a candied lemon fared fine, grate in half of a nutmeg, mix two ounces of Jor- dan almonds blanched, grate in three ounces of bif- cuit if you have it, if not a few bread crumbs grated, a little rofe water and half a pint of cream ; then take fix eggs, leave out two of the whites, beat them with a fpoonful or two of fack, put them to your fago, with about half a pound of clarified butter, mix them all together, then fweeten it with fine fugar, put in a little fait, and bake it in a difa with a little puff-pafte about the difa edge, when you ferve it up you may A65 {tick a little citron err candied orange, or any fweet- meats you pleafe. 134. A Marrow Pudding. Take a penny loaf, take off the outfide, then cut one half in thin dices ; take the marrow of two bones, half a pound of currants well cleaned, (hred your marrow, and ftrinkle a little marrow and currants over the difh ; lav over it your bread, in thin dices, whilll you fill the dilh; if you have not marrow enough you may add to it a little beef fuet Aired fine; take five eggs and beat them very well, put to them three jills of milk, grate in half a nutmeg, fweeten it to your tafte, mix all together, pour it over your pudding, and fave a little marrow to ftrink'le over the top of your pudding ; when you fend it to the oven lay a puff-palle round the dilh edge. 135. A Carrot Pudding.• Take three or four clear red carrots, boil and peel them, take the red part of the carrot, beat it very fine in a marble mortar, put to it the crumbs of a penny loaf, fix eggs, half a pound of clarified butter, two or three fpoonfuls of rofe water, a little lemon peel Hired, grate in a little nutmeg, mix them well together, bake it with a puff-palle round your dilh, and have a little white wine, butter and fugar, for the fauce. * 136. A Ground Rice Pudding. Take ha|f a pound of ground rice, half cree it in a quart of jnilk, when it is cold put to it five eggs well beat, a jill of cream, a little lemon peel fined v 3 *4.66 fine, half a nutmeg grated, half a pound of butter, and half a pound of fugar, mix them well together, put them into your difh with a little-falt, and bake it with a pufT-pafte round your difh; have a little rofe w ater, butter and fugar to pour over it : you may prick in it candied lemon or citron if you pleafe. Half of the above quantity will make a pudding for a fide difh. 137- A Potatoe Pudding. Take three or four large potatoes, boil them as you would do for eating, beat them with a little rofe wa- ter and a glafs of fack in a marble mortar, put to them half a pound of fugar, fix eggs, half a pound of melted butter, half a pound of currants well cleaned, a little Hired lemon peel and candied orange, mix all together and ferve it up. 138. An Apple Pudding. Take half a dozen large codlins, or pippins, roafi them and take out the pulp ; take eight eggs (leave out fix of the whites) half a pound of fine powder fu- gar, beat your eggs and fugar well together, and put to them the puip of your apples, halt a pound of" clarified butter, a little lemon peel Hired fine, 3 hand- ful of bread crumbs or bifcuit, four ounces of candied orange or citron, and bake it w^th a thin paflc un- der it. ] 39. An Orange Pudding. Take three large Seville oranges, the clearefi kind you can get, grate off all the out rind ; take eight eggs (leave out fix of the whites) half a pound of dou- ble refined fugar, beat and put it to your eggs, then67 i beat them both together for half an hour ; take three ounces of fweet almonds blanched, beat them with a fpoonful or two of fair water to keep them from oil- ing, half a pound of butter, melt it without water, and the juice of two oranges, then put in the rafp- ings of your oranges, and mix all together; lay a thin pafle over your difh, and bake it, but not in too hot an oven. 140. An Orange Pudding another way. Take half a pound of candied orange, cut them in thin flices, and beat them in a marble mortar to pulp 5 take fix eggs (leave out half of the whites) half a pound of butter, and the juice of one orange; mix them together, apd fweeten it with fine powder fu- gar, then bake it with thin pafte under it. 141. An Orange Pudding another way. Take three or four Seville oranges, the cleared lkins you can get, pare them very thin, boil the peel in a pretty quantity of water, fhift them two or three times in the boiling to take out the bitter tafte ; when it is boiled you mull beat it very fine in a marble mor- tar ; take ten eggs (leave out fix of the whites) three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, beat it and put it to your eggs, beat them together for half an hour, put to them half a pound of melted butter, and the juice of two or three oranges, as they are of good- uefs, mix all together, and bake it with a thin palte over your difh. This will make cheefe-cakes as well as a pudding. 142. An Orange Pudding another way. Take five or fix Seville oranges, grate them andGS make a hole in the top, take out all the meat, and boil the Heins very tender, drifting them in the hoik- ing to take off the bitter tafte ; take half a pound of’ long bifeuits, flice and feald them with a little cream,, beat fix eggs and put to your bifeuits; take half a pound of currants, wafh them clean, grate in half a nutmeg, put in a little fait and a glafs of fack, beat all together, then put it into orange fkins; tie them tight in a piece of fine cloth, every one feparate ; about three quarters of an hour will boij them. You mult have a little white wine, butter and fugar for fauce. 143. To make an Onan^e-Tic. Take half a dozen Seville Oranges, chip them very fine as you would do for preferring, make a little hole in the top, and fcoop out all the meat, as you would do an apple, you mult boil them whilft they are tender, and drift them two or three times to take off the bitter talle ; take fix or eight apples, accord- ing as they are in bigflefs, pare and (lice them, and put to them part ot the pulp of your oranges, and pick out the firings and pippins, put to them half a pound of fine powder fugar, fo boil it up over a flow fire, as you would do for puffs, and fill your oranges with it; they muft be baked in a deep delf difh with no palle under them ; when you put them into your difh put under them three quarters of a pound of fine powder fugar, put in as much water as will wet your fugar, and put your oranges with the open fide up- permoft ; it will take about an hour and a half bak- ing in a flow oven ; lay over them a light puff-pafie ; . when you difh it up take off the lid, and turn the oranges in the pic, cut the lid in fippets, and let them at equal difiances, fo ferve it up.69 144. To make a Quaking Pudding ano- ther way. Take a pint of cream, boil it with one flick of cinnamon, take out the fpice when it is boiled, then take the yolks of eight eggs, and four whites, beat them very well with fome lack, and mix your eggs with the cream, a little fugar and fait, half a penny wheat loaf, a fpoonful of flour, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and beat fine, beat them altoge- ther, wet a thick cloth, flour it, and put it in when the pot boils; it mull boil an hour at lead ; melted butter, fack and fugar is fauce for it; flick blanched almonds and candied orange peel on the top, fo ferve it up. 145. To make Plum Porridge. Take two (hanks of beef, and ten quarts of water, let it boil over a flow fire till it be tender, and when the broth is flrong, ftrain it out, wipe the pot and put in the broth again, (lice in two penny loaves thin, cutting off the top and bottom, put fome of the li- quor to it, cover it up and let it ftand for a quarter of an hour, fo put it into the pot again, and let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in four pounds of currants, and let them boil a little ; then put in two pounds of raifins, and two pounds of prunes, let them boil till they fwell; then put in a quarter of an ounce of mace, a few cloves beat fine, mix it with a little water, and put it into your pot ; alfo a pound of fu- gar, a little fait, a quart or better of claret, and the juice of two or three lemons or verjuice ; thicken it with fago inflead of bread ; fo put it in earthen pots, and keep it for ufe.70 -146. To make a Palpatoon of Pigeons. Take mufhrooms, pallets, oyfters and fweetbreads, fry them in butter, put all thefe in a ftrong gravy. Heat them over the fire, and thicken them up with an egg and a little butter ; then take fix or eight pigeons, trufs them as you would for baking, feafon them with pepper and fait, and lay on them a cruft of forcedmeat, as follows, viz. a pound of veal cut in little bits, and a pound and a half of marrow, beat it > together in a (tone mortar, after it is beat very fine, feafon it with mace, pepper and fait, put in the yolks of four eggs, and two raw eggs, mix all together with a few bread crumbs to a parte; make the fides and lid of your pie with it, then put your ragout into your dilh, and lay in your pigeons with butter; an hour and a half will bake it. 147- To fry Cucumbers for Mutton Sauce. You rnuft brown fome butter in a pan, and cut fix middling cucumbers, pare and flice them, but not over thin, drain them from the water, then put them into the pan, when they are fried brown put to them a little pepper and fait, a lump of butter, a fpoonful of vinegar, a little Ihred onion, and a little gravy, not to make it too thin, fo ftiake them well together with a little flour. You may lay them round your mutton, or they are proper for a fide-difh. 14S. To force a Fowl. Take a good fowl, pull and draw it, then flit the flvin down the back, take the flefli from the bones.71 and mince it very well, mix it witli a little beef fuet, fhred a jill of large oyllers, chop a fhalot, a little grated bread, and fome fweet herbs, mix all toge- ther, feafon it with nutmeg, pepper and fait, make it up with yolks of eggs, put it on the bones and draw the ikin over it, few up the back, cut off the legs, and put the bones as you do a fowl for boiling, tie the fowl up in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. For fauce take a few oyfters, fhred them, and put them into a little gravy, witli a lump of butter, a little lemon peel fined, and a little juice, thicken it up with a little flour, lie the fowl on the difh, and pour the fauce upon it; you may fry a little of the forced- meat to lay round. Garnifh your difh with lemon ; you may fet it in the oven if you have convenience, only rub over it the yolk of an egg and a few bread Crumbs. 149- To make Raspberry and Strawberry Tool. Take a pint of rafpberries, fqueeze and flrain the juice, with a fpoonful of orange water, put to the juice fix ounces of fine fugar, and boil it over the fire ; then take a pint of cream and boil it, mix them all well together, and heat them over the fire, but not to boil, if it do it will curdle ; ftir it till it be cold, put it into your bafori and keep it for ufe. 1.50. To make a Posset with Almonds. Blanch and beat three quarters of a pound of al- monds, fo fine that they will fpread betwixt your fingers like butter, put in water as you beat them to keep them from oiling ; take a pint of fack, cherry or gooieberry wine, and fwceten it to your tafle withdouble refined fugar, make it boiling hot; take the almonds, put to them a little water, and boil the wine and almonds together ; takedhe yolks of four eggs, and beat them very well, put to them three or four fpoonfuls of wine, then put it into your pan by degrees, flirring it all the while; when it begins to thicken takp it off, and flir it a little, put it into a china dilh, and ferve it up. 151. To make Dutch Beef. Take the lean part of a buttock of beef raw, rub it well with brown fugar all over, and let it lie in a pan or tray two or three hours, turning it three or four times, then fait it with common fait, and two ounces of faltpetre ; let it lie a fortnight, turning it every day, then roll it very ffraight, and put it into a cheefe-prefs a day and night, then take off the cloth and hang it up to dry in the chimney ; when you boil it let it be boiled very well, it will cut in fhivers like Dutch beef. You may do a leg of mutton the fame way. 152. To make Bologna Sausages. Take part of a leg of pork or veal, pick it clean from the fkin or fat, put to every pound of lean meat a pound of beef fuet picked from the fkins, (bred the meat and fuet feparate and very fine, mix them well together, add a large handful of green fage fhred very finall ; feafon it with pepper and fait, mix it well, pref6 it down hard in an earthen pot, and keep it for ufe. When you ufe them, roll them up with as much egg as will make them roll fmooth ; in rolling them up make them about the length of your fingers, and as thick as two fingers; fry them in butter,73 which mud be boiled hot before you put them in ; and keep them rolling about in the pan ; when they are fried through they are enough. 153. To )mice an Ambkt of Cockles. Take four whites and two yolks of eggs, a pint of cream, a little flour, a nutmeg grated, a little fait, and a jill of cockles, mix all together, and fry it brown. This is proper for a fide-difh either for noon or night. 154. To make a common Quaking Pudding. - • V. Take five eggs, beat them well with a little fait, put in three fpoonfuls of line flour, take a pint of new milk.and beat them well together, then take a cloth, butter and flour it, but do not give it over much room in the cloth ; an hour will boil it, give it a turn every now and then at the.firft putting in, or elfe the meal will fettle to the bottom ; have a little plain butter for fauce, and ierve it up. 155. To, make a boiled Tansey. Take an old penny loaf, cutoff the out cruft, flice it thin, put to it as much hot cream as will wet it, fix eggs, well beaten, a little fhred lemon peel, grate in a little nutmeg, and a little fait; green it as you did your baked tanfey, fo tie it up in a cloth and bod it ; it will take an hour and a quarter boiling ; when you dilh it up ilick it with candied orange and lay a Seville orange cut in quarters round the diflt j ferve it up with melted butter. Cr74 . y 1.56. A Tansey another way. Take an old penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, flice it very thin, and put to it as much hot milk as will wet it ; take fix eggs, beat them very well, grate in half a nutmeg, a little fhred lemon peel, half a pound of clarified butter, half a pound of fugar, and a little fait ; mix them well together.—To green your Tan- ley.—Take a handful or two of fpinage, a Itandful of tanfey, and a handful of forrel, clean them and beat them in a marble mortar, or grind them as you would do greenfauce, ftrain them through a linen cloth into a bafon,and put into your tanfey as much of the juice aS will green it, pour over for the fauce a little white wine, butter and lugar; lay a rim of pafte round your difh and bake it ; when you ferve it up cut a Seville orange in quarters, and lay it round the edge of the diili. 157. To make Hire Pancakes. Take half a pound of l ice, wall) and pick it clean, tree it in fair water till it be a jelly, when it is cold take a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs, beat them very well together, and put them to the rice, with grated nutmeg and iomc fait, then put in half a pound of butter, and as much flour as will make it thick enough to fry, with as little butter as you can. 158. To make Fruit Fritters. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, (lice it, put to it as much hot milk as will wet it, beat five or fix eggs, put to them a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, well cleaned, and a little candied orauge (bred fine, fo mix them well together, drop them with a fpoon into a ilew-pan in clarified butter; have a little75 white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, put it into a china bafon, lay your fritters round, grate a little fugar over them, and lerve them up. •159. To make IVhile Puddings m skins.' Take half a pound of rice, cree it in milk while it be foft, when it is creed put it into a cullender to drain ; take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, then cut it in thin flices, fcald it in a little milk, but do not make it over wet; take fix eggs, and beat them very well, a pound of entrants well cleaned, a pound of beef fuet fhred fine, two or three fpoonfuls of rofe water, half a pound of powder fugar, a little fait, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a large nutmeg grated, and a fmall Hick of cinnamon ; beat them together, mix them very well, and put them into the flcins ; if you find it be too thick put to it a little cream ; you may boil them near half an hour, it will make them keep the better. 160. To make Black Puddings. Take two quarts of whole oatmeal, pick it and half boil it, give it room in your cloth, (you mult do it the day before you ufe it) put it into the blood while it is warm, with a handful of fait, ftir it very well, beat eight or nine eggs in about a pint of cream, and a quart of bread crumbs, a handful or two of maflin meal drefted through a hair-lieve, if you have it, if not put in wheat flour ; to this quantity you may put an ounce of Jamaica pepper, an ounce of black pep- per, a large nutmeg, and a little more fait, fweet marjoram and thyme, if they be green Ihred them fine, if dry rub them to powder, mix them well to* G 27 6 gether, and if it lie too thick put to it a little milk ; take four pounds of beef fuet, and four pounds of lard, /kin arid cut it in thin pieces, put it into your blood by handfuls, as voti fill your puddings ; when they are filled and tied prick them with a pin, it wifi keep them from biirfting in the boiling ; {you mull boil them twice) cover them clofe and it will make them black. 16' !. An Orange Padding another V'ay. Take two Seville branges, the largeft and clearefl you can get, grate off the outet fkin with a clean grater ; take eight eggs (leave out two of the whites) half a pound Of loaf fiugar, beat it very fine, put it to your eggs, and beat them for an hour, put to them half a pound of clarified butter, and four ounces of almonds blanched, and beat them with a little rofe- wattr ; put in the juice of the oranges, but mind you don’t put in the pippins, and mix all together ; bake it with a thin pafte over the bottom of the di/h. It mud be baked in a How oven. 162. To make Apple Fritters. Take four eggs and beat them very well, put to them four fpoonfuls of fine flour, a little milk, about a quarter of a pound of l'ugar, a little nutmeg and fait, fo beat them very well together; you muft not brake it very thin, if you do it will not flick to the apple ; take a middling apple and pare it, cut out the core, and cut the reft in round flices about the thicknefs of a /hilling ; (you may take out the core after you have cut it with your thimble) have ready a little lard in a ftew-pan, or any other deep pan ; then take your apple every flice Angle, and dip it into77 your batter, let your lard be very hot, fo drop th.em in; you muft keep them turning while enough, and mind that they be not over brown ; as you take them out lay them on a pewter di/h before the fire whilli you have done ; have a little white wine, butter and fugar for the fauce ; grate over them a little loaf fu- gar, and ferve them up. 163. To make a Herb Pudding. Take a good quantity of fpinage and parfley, a little forrel and mild thyme, put to them a handful of great oatmeal creed, fhred them togethertill they be very fmall, put to them a pound of currants, well Walk- ed and cleaned, four eggs well beaten in a jill of good cream ; if you would have it fweet, put in a quarter of a pound of fugar, a little nutmeg, a little fait, and a handful of grated bread ; then meal your cloth and tie it clofe before you put it in to boil ; it will take as much boiling as a piece of beef. 164. To make a Pudding for a Hare. Take the liver and chop it fmall with fome thyme, parfley, fuet, crumbs of bread mixed with grated nut- meg. pepper, fait, an egg, a little fat bacon and lemon peel; you rauft make the compofition very ftiff, left it fliouid diffolve, and you lofe your pudding. 16\5. To make a Bread Pudding. Take three Jills of milk, when boiled, take a penny loaf fliced thin, cut off the out cruft, put on the boiling milk, let it ftand clofe covered till it be cold, and beat it very well till all the lumps be broke ; take five eggs, Beat them very well, grate in a little nut- G 378 meg, Hired fome lemon peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter or beef fuet, with as much fugaT as wall fweeten it; and currants as many as you pleaftlet them be well cleaned; fo put them into your drfh, and bake or boil it. 166. To malte Clare Pancakes. Take five or fix eggs, and beat them very well with a little fait, put to them two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful of fine flour, mix it with a little cream ; take your clare and wafh it very clean, wipe it with a cloth, put your eggs into a pan, juft to cover your pan bottom, lay the clare in leaf by leaf, whilft you have covered your pan all over ; take a fpoon, and pour the batter over every leaf till they are all covered ; when it 'is done lay the brown fide upwards, and ferve it up. 16'7. To make a Liver Pudding. Take a pound of grated bread, a pound of cur- rants, a pound and a half of marrow and fuet toge- ther cut imall, three quarters of a pound of fugar, half an ounce cf dunam a quarter of an ounce of mace, a pint of grated liver, and fome fait, mix all together : take twelve eggs (leave out half of the whites) beat them well, put to them a pint of cream, make the eggs and cream warm, then put it to the pudding, and ilir it well together, fo (ill them in ikitis ; put to them a few blanched almonds hired fine, and a fpoonful or two of role water, lb keep them for ufc.79 168. To make Oatmeal Fritters. Boil a quart of new milk, deep a pint of fine flour or oatmeal in it ten or twelve hours, then beat four eggs in a little milk, fo much as will make it like thick batter, drop them in by fpoonfuls into frefli butter, a fpoonful of butter in a cake, and grate fu- gar over them ; have fack, butter and fugar for fauce. 169. To make Apple Dumplings. Take half a dozen codlins, or any other good ap- ples, pare and core them, make a little cold butter pafte, and roll it up about the tbicknefs of your fin- ger, fo wrap round every apple, and tie them Angle in a fine cloth, boil them in a little fait and water, and let the water boil before you put them in; half an hour will boil them ; you mull have for fauce a little white wine and butter ; grate fome fugar round thedilh, and ferve them up. 170. To make Herb Dumplings. Take a penny loaf, cut off the out cruft, and the reft in Dices, put to it as much hot milk as will juft wet it, take the yolks and whites of fix eggs, beat them with two fpoonfuls of powder fugar, half a nut- meg, and a little fait, fo put it to your bread ; take half a pound of currants well cleaned, put them to your eggs, then take a handful of the mildeft herbs you can get, gather them fo equal that the tafte of one be not above the other, walh and chop them very fmall, put as many of them in as will make a deep green (don’t put any parflty among them, nor any other ftrong herb) fo mix them all together and boil them in a cloth, make them about the bignefs of middling apples, about half an hour will boil thcru $80 put them into your dilh, and have a little candied orange, white wine, butter and fugar for fauce, fo ferve them up. 171. To make Marrow Tarts. To a quart of cream put the yolks of twelve eggs, half a pound ol fugar, fome beaten mace and cinna- mon, a little fait and fome fack, fet it on the fire with half a pound of bifcuits, as much marrow, a little orange peel and lemon peel; ftir it on the fire 1 till it becomes thick, and when it is cold put it into ! a difh with puff-palte, then bake it gently in a flow oven. 172. To make plain Fruit Dumplings. Take as much flour as you would have dumplings in quantity, put to it a fpoonful of fugar, a little • fait, a little nutmeg, a fpoonful of light yeall, and half a pound of currants well wafhed and cleaned, fo i knead them the (tiffnefs you do a common dumpling, you mull have white wine, fugar and butter for fauce ; t: you may boil them either in a cloth or without; lo ferve them up. 173. To make Oyster 1.oaves. Take half a dozen French loaves, rafp them and make a hole at the top, take out all the crumbs and fry them in butter till they are crifp ; when your oy- ltcrs are dewed, put them into your loaves, cover them up before the fire to keep hot whilll you want them ; fo ferve them up. They are proper either for a lidc-difli or middle- difli. t: t » L Ut| k81 You may make cockle loaves or mufhroom loaveft the fame way. ] 74. To make a Gooseberry Pudding. Take a quart of green goofeberries, pick, coddle, bruife and rub them through a hair fieve to take out the pulp ; take fix fpoonfuls of the pulp, fix eggs, three quarters of a pound of fugar, half a pound of clarified butter, a little lemon peel Hired fine, a hand- ful of bread crumbs or bifcuit, a fpoonful ofrofe wa- ter or orange-flower water; mix thefc well together* and bake it with pafte round the difh ; you may add fweetmeats if you pleafe. 175. To make an Ed-Pie. Cafe and clean the eels, l'eafon them with a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, cut them in long pieces ; you mult make your pie with hot butter pafte, let it be oval with a thin cruft; lay in your eels length- way, putting over them a little frefh butter; fo bake them. Eel pies are good, and eat very well with currants, but if you put in currants you mull not ufe any black pepper, but a little Jamaica pepper. 176'. To make a Turbot-Head Pie. Take a middling turbot-head, pretty well cut off, wafh it clean, take out the gills, feafon it pretty well with mace, pepper and fait, fo put it into a deep dilh with half a pound of butter, cover it with a light puff pafte, but lay none in the bottom : when it is baked take out the liquor and the butter that it was baked in, put it into a faucepan with a lump of frefh butter and flour to thicken it, with an anchovy and a82 glafs of white wise, fo pour it into your pie again over the fifh ; you may lay round half a dozen yolks (ff eggs at equal diilances ; when you have cut off the lid, lie it in fippets round your difh, and ferve it up. 177- To make a caudle for a sweet l eal Pic. Take about a jill of white wine and verjuice mixed, make it very hot, beat the yolk of an egg very well, and then mix them together as you would do mulled ale; you mull fweeten it very well, becaufe there is no fugar in the pie. This caudle will do for any other fort of pie that is fweet. 178. To make Sweetmeat Tarts. Make a little fhell-palte, roll it, and line your tins, prick them in the infide, and fo bake them ; when you ferve them up put in any fort of fweetmeats, what you pleafe. You may have a different fort every day, do but keep your (hells baked by you. 179. To make Orange Tarts. Take two or three Seville oranges and boil them, fhift them in the boiling to take out the bitter, cut them in two, take out the pippins, and cut them in flices ; they mud be baked in crifp-paite ; when you fi|l the petty-pans, lay in a layer of oranges and a layer of fugar (a pound will fweeten a dozen of fmall tins, if you do not put in too much orange) bake them in a How oven, and ice them over.83 180. To make a Tansey. another way. Take a pint of cream, fome bifcuits without feeds, two or three fpoonfuls. of fine flour, nine eggs, leav- ing out two of the whites, fome nutmeg, and orange flower-water, a little juice of tanfey and fpinage, put it into a pan till it be pretty thick, then fry or bake it, if fried take care that you do not let it be over brown. Garnifh with orange and fugar, fo ferve it up. 181. A good Paste jor Tarts. Take a pint of flour, and rub a quarter of a pound of butter in it, beat two eggs with a fpoonful of double-refined fugar, and two or three fpoonfuls of cream to make it into palle ; work it as little as you can, roll it out thin ; butter your tins, dull on fome flour, then lay in your palle, and do not fill them too full. 182. To make transparent Tarts. Take a pound of flour well dried, beat one egg till it be very thin, then melt almoll three quarters of a pound of butter without fait, and let it be cold enough to mix with an egg, then put it into the flour and make your palle, roll it very thin, when you are fet- ting them in the oven wet them over with a little fair water, and grate a little fugar ; if you bake them lightly they will be very fine. 183. To make a Shell Paste. T ake half a pound of fine flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs and one white, two ounces of fugar finely fifted, mix all thefe together with a little water, and roll it very thin whilft you can fee through it; when you lid84 your tarts prick them to keep them from bliftering ; make fure to roll them even, and when you bake them ice them. 184. To make Paste, for Tarts. Take the yolks of five or fix eggs; juft as you would have pafteiti quantity ; to’the"yolks of fix eggs put a pound of butter, work the "butter with your hands till it take up all the eggs,- then take fome London flour and work it with your butter whilft it comes to a pafte, put in aboiit two fpoonfuls of loaf fugar beat and fitted, and about half a | ill of water; when you have wrought it well together it is fit for ufe. This is a pafte that feldom runs if it be even roll- ed ; roll it thin but let your lids be thinner than your bottoms ; when ybu have made your tarts, prick them over with a pin to keep them from hlittering ; when you are going to put them into the oven, wet them over with a feather dipt in fair water, and grate over theni'a .little double refined loaf fugar, it will ice them ; but don’t let them be baked in a hot Qven, 185. A Short Paste for Tarts. Take a pound of wheat flour, and rub it very fmall, three quarters of a pound oi butter, rub it aa Amalias the flour, put to it three Ipoonfuls of loaf fu- gar beat and lifted, take the yolks of four eggs, and beat them very tvell; put to them a fpoonful or two of'rofe-water, and as much fair water as will work them into a uafte, then roil them thin, and ice them over as you did the other if you plcaie, and bake them in a flow oven.85 186‘. To make a light Paste, for a Venison Pasty or' other Pie. Take a quarter of a peck of fine flour, or as much as you think you have occafion for, and to every quartern of flour put a pound and a quarter of butter, break the third part of your butter into the flour j then take the whites of three or four eggs, beat them very well to a froth, and put to them as much water as will knead the meal; do not knead it over ft iff, then roll in the reft of your butter, you muft roll it five or fix times over at leaft, arid ftrinkle a little flour over your butter every time you roll it up, wrap it up the crofs way, and it will befit for ufe. 1 -»7. To make a Paste for a Standing Pie. Take a quartern of flour or more if you have oc- caiion, and to every quartern of flour put a pound of butter and a little fait, knead it with boiling water, then work it very well, and let it lie whilft it is cold. This pafte is good enough for a goofe pie, or any other Handing pie. 188. A light Paste for a Dish Pie. Take a quartern of flour, and breakdnto it a pound of butter in large pieces, knead it very ft.ift', handle it as lightly as you can, and roll it once or twice, then it is fit for ufe. I 189. rVo make Cheesecakes. Take a gallon of new milk, make of it a tender curd, wring the whey from it, put it into a bafon, and break three quarters of a pound of butter into the curd, then with a clean hand Work the butter and H86 curd together till all the butter be melted, and rub it in a hair fieve with the back of a fpoon till all be through: then take fix eggs, beat them with a few fpoonfuls of rofe-water or fack, put it into your curd with half a pound of fine fugar and a little nut- meg grated; mix them all together with a little fait, fome currants and almonds ; then work up your palle of fine flour, with cold butter and a little fugar; roll your pafte very thin, fill your tins with the curd, and fet them in an oven, when they are almoft: enough take them out, then take a quarter of a pound of butter, with a little rofe-water, and part of a half pound of fugar, let it (land on the coals till the but- ter be melted, then pour into each cake fome of it, fet them in the oven again till they be brown ; fo keep them for ufe. 190. To make Goof'er Wafers. Take a pound of fine flour and fix eggs, beat them very well, put to them about a jill of milk, mix it well with the flour, put in half a pound of clarified butter, half a pound of powder lugar, half of a nut- meg, and a little fait ; you may add to it two or three fpoonfuls of cream ; then take your goofer-irons and put them into the fire to heat, when they are hot rub them over the firfl time with a little butter in a cloth, put your batter into one fide of your goofer-irons, put them into the fire, and keep turning the irons every now and then : (if your irons be hot they burnfoon) make them a day or two before you ufe them, only fet them down before the fire on a pew- ter difli before you ferve them up ; have a littie white wine and butter for your fauce, grating fome fugar over them.87 191- To make common Card Cheesecakes. Take a pennyworth of curds, mix them with a little cream, beat four eggs, put to them fix ounces of clarified butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, half a pound of currants well wafhed, and a little le- mon peel Hired, a little nutmeg, a fpoonful of rofe- water or brandy, whether you pleafe, and a little fait, mix all together, and bake them in fmall petty pans. 3 f)2. Cheesecakes without Currants. Take five quarts of new milk, run it to a tender curd, then hang it in a cloth to drain, rub into it a pound of butter that is well wafhed in rofe-water, put to it the yolks of feven or eight eggs, and two of the whites; feafon it with cinnamon, nutmeg and fugar. 193. To make a Curd Pudding. Take three quarts of new milk, put to it a little earning, as much as will break it, when it is feum- med break it down with your hand, and when it is drained grind it with a mtiftard ball in a bowl, or beat it in a marble mortar ; then tafte half a pound of butter and fix eggs, leaving out three of the whites; beat the eggs well, and put them into the curds and butter, grate in half a nutmeg, add a little lemon peel Hired fine, and fait, fweeten it to your tafte, beat them all together, and bake them in little petty pans with fait bottoms ; a quarter of an hour will bake them ; you muft butter the tins very well before you put them in ; when you difh them up you muft88 ftick them with either blanched almonds, candied orange or citron cut in long bits, and grate a little loaf-fugar Over them. 194. To make a Slip Coat Cheese. Take five quarts of new milk, a quart of cream, and a quart of water, boil your water, then put your cream to it ; when your milk is new milk warm put in your earning, take your curd into the drainer, break it as little as you can, and let it drain, then put it into your vat, prefs it by degrees, and lay it in grafs, 195. To make Cream Cheese. Take three quarts of new milk, one quart of cream, and a fpoonful of earning, put them together, let it ftand till it come to the hardnefs of a ftrong jelly, then put it into the mould, fluffing it often into dry cloths, lay the weight of three pounds upon it, and about two hours after you may lay fix or ieven pounds upon it ; turn it often into dry cloths till night, then take the weight off, and let it lie in the mould with- out weight and cloth till morning, and when it is fo dry that it doth not wet a cloth, keep it in greens till fit for ufe ; if you pleafc you may put a little fait into it. 196. To make Pike eat like Sturgeon. Take the tliick part of a large pike and fcale it, fet on two quarts of water to boil it in, put in a jil of vinegar, a large handful of ialt, and when tt boils put in your pike, but full bind it about with coarfe incle ; when it is boiled you mult not take off the incle or bailing, but let it be on all the time it is in89 eating ; it muft be kept in the fame pickle it was boiled in, and if you think it be not ftrong enough, you muff add a little more fait and vinegar, when it is cold put it upon your pike, and keep it for ufe ; before you boil the pike take out the bone. You may do fcate the fame way, and in my opinion it eats more like fturgeon. 197- To collar Eels. Take the largeft eels you can get, Ikin and fplit them down the belly, take out the bones, feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg, and fait; begin at the tail and roll them up very light, fo bind them up in a little coarfe incle, boil it in fait and water, a few bay leaves, a little whole pepper, and a little alegar or vinegar; it will take an hour boiling, ac- cording as your roll is in bigncfs; when it is boiled you muft tie it and hang it up whilft it be cold, then put it into the liquor that it was boiled in, and keep it for ufe. If your eels be fmall you may’ roll two or three of them together. 193. To Pot Smelts. Take the frefhcft and the larged fmelts you can get, wipe them very well with a clean cloth, take out the guts with a fkewer (but you muft not take out the milt and roe) feafon them with a little mace, nutmeg and fait, lo lay them in a flat pot; if you have two fcort you muft lay over them five ounces of butter; tie over them a paper, aud fet them in a flow oven ; if it be over hot it will burn them, and make them look black ; an hour will bake them ; when H 390 they are baked you muft take them out and lay them on a dilh to drain, and when they are drained you muft put them in long pots about the length of your fmelts; when you lay them in, you muft put betwixt every layer the lame feafoning as you did before, to make them keep ; when they are cold cover them over with clarified butter, i'o keep them for ufc. 199- To pickle Smelts. Take the bell and largeft fmelts you can get; gut, tvalh and wipe them, lay them in a flat pot, cover them with a little white wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace and a little pepper and fak; bake them in a flow oven, and keep them for ufe. 200. To stew a Pike. Take a large pike, feale and clean it, feafon it in the belly with a little mace and fait ; fkewer it round, put it into a deep ftew-pan, with a pint of fmall gra- vy, and a pint of claret, two or three blades of mace, fet it over a ftove with a flow fire, and cover it up clofe ; when it is enough take part of the liquor, put to it two anchovies, a little lemon peel (bred fine, and thicken the fauce with flour and butter ; before you lay the pike on the difh turn it with the back up- wards, take off the fkin, and ferve it up. Garnilh your dilh with lemon and pickles. 201. Sauce for a Pike. Take a little of the liquor that comes from the pike when you take it out of the oven, put to it two or three anchovies, a little lemon peel flared, a ipoon- ful or two of white wine, or a little juice of iemon, which you pleafe, put to it fome butter and flour.31 make your fauce about the thicknefs of cream, put into a baton or filver boat, and let it in your dilh with your pike, you may lay round your pike any fort of fried hill, or broiled, if you have it; you may have the fame fauce for a broiled pike, only add a little good gravy, a few Hired capers, a little parfley, and a fpoonful or two of oyfter or cockle pickle, if you have it. 202. How to roa-st a Pike" with a Pud- ding in the Belly. Take a large pike, fcale and clean it, draw it at the gills.—To make a Pudding for the Pike.—Take a large handful of bread crumbs, as much beef fuet Ihred fine, two eggs, a little pepper and fait, a little grated nutmeg, a little parfley, fweet marjoram and lemon peel Hired fine ; fo mix all together, put it into the belly of your pike, fkewer it round and lay it in an earthen dilh with a lump of butter over it, a little fait and flour, fo fet it in the oven 5 an hour will roalt it. 203. To dress a Cod's Head. Take a cod’s head, vvaHi and clean it, take out the gills, cut it open, and make it to lie flat; if you have no convenience of boiling it you may do it in an oven (and it will be as well or better) put it into a copper difh or earthen one, lay upon it a little but- ter, fait and flour, and when it is enough take off the (kin, *Sauce for the Cod's Head. Take a little white gravy, about a pint of ovflers or cockles, a little fhrtd lemon peel, two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, and about half a pound of butter, thickened with flour, and put it into your boat or bafon. Another Sauce for a Cod's Head. Take a pint of gqod gravy, a lobfter or crab, which Jrou can get, drefs and put it into your gravy with a ittle butter, juice of lemon, Hired lemon peel, and a few (hrimps if you have them : thicken it with a lit- tie flour, and put it into your bafon, fet the oyfters on one fide of the difli and this on the other; lay round the head boiled whitings, or anv fried filh ; oour over the head a little melted butter. Gar- iiifh your dilh with horfe-radilh, dices of lemon and pickles. 204. To stew Carp or Tench. Take yotir carp or .tench and wadi them, fcale the carp but not the tench, when you have cleaned them wipe them with a cloth, and fry them in a frying-pan with a little butter to harden the tkin ; before you put them into the ftew-pan, put to them a little good gravy, the quantity will be according tc> the large- nefs of your difh, with a jill of claret, three or four anchovies at lead, a little Hired lemon peel, a blade or two of mace, let all flew together, till your carp be enough, over a flow file ; when it is enough take part of the liquor, put to it half a pound ol butter, and thicken it with a little flour ; lo ferve it up. Garnifh your di(h with ciifp parlley, flices of lemon and pi<.kies, i93 If you have not the convenience of ftewing them, you may broil them before a fire; only make the fame fauce. 205. How to make Sauce for a boiled Sal- mon or Turbot. Take a little mild white gravy, two or three an- chovies, a fpoonful of oyfteror cockle pickle, a little fhred lemon peel, half a pound of butter, a little par- fley and fennel fhred fmall, and a little juice of le- mon, but not too much, for fear it fhould take off the fweetnefs. 206. To make Sauce for Haddock or Cod, either broiled or boiled. Take a little gravy, a few cockles, oyflers of ttuifhrooms, put to them a little of the gravy that comes from the fifh, either broiled or boiled, it will do very well if you have no other gravy, a little catchup and a lump of butter •, if you have neither oyllers nor cockles you may put in an anchovy or two, and thicken with flour; you may put in a few fhred capers, or a little mango, if you have it. 207. To steiv Eds. Take your eels, cafe, clean and fkewer them round, f>ut them into a ftew-pan with a little good gravy, a ittle claret to redden the gravy, a blade or two of mace, an anchovy, and a little lemon peel; when they are enough thicken them with a little flour and butter. Garnifh your difh with parfley, 20S. To spitch-cock Eds. 1 ake your eels, cafe and clean them, feafon them9 4 with nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fkewer them round, broil them before the fire, and bafle them with a lit- tle butter; when they are almoil enough flrinkle them over with a little fhred parfley, and make your fauce of a little gravy, butter, anchovy, and a little oyfler pickle if you have it; don’t pour the fauce over your eels, put it into a china bafon, and let it in the mid- dle of your dilh. Garniih with crifp parfley, and ferve them up. S209- To boll Herrings. Take your herrings, fcale and wafli them, take out the milts and roes, fkewer them round, and tie them with a firing or elfe they will come loofe in the boil- ing and be fpoiled ; fet on a pretty broad (lew-pan, with as much water as will cover them, put to it a little fait, lie in your herrings with the backs down- wards, boil with them the milts and roes to lie round them ; they will boil in half a quarter of an hour over a flow fire, when they are boiled take them up with an egg flice, fo turn them over and fet them to drain. Make your fauce of a little gravy and butter, an anchovy, and a little boiled parfley fined : put it into the bafon, fet it in the middle of thedifh, lay the herrings round with their tails towards the baton and lay the milts and roes between every herring. Garnifh with crifp parfley and lemon ; fo ferve them up. £10. To fry Herrings. Scale and wafh your herrings clean, drew over them a little flour and ialt; let your butter be very hot be- fore you put your herrings into the pan, then (hake them to keep them (luring, and fry them over a brilk95 fire : when they are fried cut off the heads and bruife them, put to them a jill of ale (but the ale muft not be bitter) add a little pepper and fait, a fmall onion or fhalot, if you have them, and boil them all toge- ther; when they are boiled, drain them and put them into your faucepan again, thicken them with a little flour and butter, put it into a bafon, and fet it in the middle of your difh ; fry the milts and roes to- gether, and lay round your herrings. Garnifh your difh with crifp parfley, and ferve it up. 211. To pickle Herrings. Seale and clean your herrings, take out the milts and roes, and fkewer them round, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, put them in a deep pot, cover them with alegar, put to them a little whole Jamaica pepper, and two or three bay leaves; bake them and keep them for ufe. 212. To stezr Oysters. Take a fcore or two of oyfters, according as you have occaiion, put them into a fmall ftew-pan, with a few bread-crumbs, a little water, fhred mace and pepper, a lump of butter, and a fpoonful of vinegar (not to make it four) boil them all together, but not overmuch, if you do it makes them hard. Garnifh with bread fippets, and ferve them up. 213. To fry Oysters. Take a fcore or two of the largeft oyflers you can get, ano the yolks of four or five eggs, beat them very well, put to them a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, a fpoonful of fine flour, and a little raw parfleyS6 Ihred, fo dip in your oyfters, and fry them in butter a light brown. They are very proper to lie about either Hewed oy- fters, or any other fifh, or made dirties. £14. Oysters in Scallop Shells. Take half a dozen fmall fcallop flielb, lay in the bottom of every fhell a lump of butter, a few bread crumbs, and then your oyfters; laying over them again a few more bread crumbs, a Iit:le butter, and a little beat pepper, fo fet them to crifp, either in the oven or before the fire, apd ferve them up. They are proper for either a fide-dilh or middle- dilh* £15. To keep Herrings all the year. Take frefh herrings, cut off their heads, open and wafh them very clean, feafon them with fait, black pepper, and Jamaica pepper, put them into a pot, cover them with white wine vinegar and water, of each an equal quantity, and fet them in a flow oven to bake; tie the.pot up clofe and they will keep a year in the pickle. £16. To make artificial Sturgeon another may. Take out the bones of a turbot or bret, lay it in fait twenty-four hours, boil it with good (tore of fait; make your pickle of white wine vinegar and three quarts of water, boil them, and put in a little vinegar in the boiling ; don’t boil it over much, if you do it will make it foft ; when it is enough take it out-till it be cold, put the fame pickle to it, and keep it for ufe.97 217. To stew Mushrooms. Take mulhrooms and clean them, the buttons you tnay wa(h, but the flaps you mull peel both infide and out ; when you have cleaned them, pick out the little ones for pickling, and cut the reft in pieces far fttwing ; walh them and put them into a little water; give them a boil and it will take off the faintnefs, fo drain from them all the water, then put them into a pan with a lump of butter, a little fhred mace, pep- per and fait to your tails, (putting to them a little water) hang them over a flow fire for half an hour, when they are enough thicken them with a little flour;, ferve them up with fippets. 218. To make Almond Puff's< Take a pound of almonds blanched, and beat them with orange-flower water, then take a pound of fu- gar, and boil them almoil to a candy height, put in your almonds and (tir them on the fire, keep ftir- ring them till they be lliff, then take them off the fire and ftlrthem till they be cold ; beat them a quar- ter of an hour in a mortar, putting to them a pound of lugar lifted, and a little lemon-peel grated, make it into a pa lie with the whites of three eggs, and beat it into a froth more or lefs as you think proper ; bake them in an oven almoil cold, and keep tk<;m for ufe, 219- / o pot Mushrooms. lake the larged mufhrooms, ferape and clean them, pyt them into your pan with a lump of butter, and a little lalt, let them flew over a tjovy fire whilft thoy are enough, put to them a lksle and whul?3$ pepper, then dry them with a cloth, and put them down into a pot as clofe as you can, and as you lie them.down ftrinkle in a little fait and mace, when they are cold cover them over with buttfer ; w hen you ufe them |oIs tljem up with gravy, a few bread crumbs and bptte'r ; do not' nvakp your pot over large, but rather put them-into t\vov pots; they will keep the better if yoii take the gravy from them when they are hewed. They are .good, tor fifli fauce, or any other whilft. yfafg frcfli, ' V.’ . * , • fry-'■Trout, or any other sort of • “ - Pish. Take twTo op three eggs, more or lefs according as ypU'bav&hfh'totfry, take the ftfh and cut it in thin jlices, lic;ijt?upon « board, pub the eggs over it with a feather,. andhrew pn a.lfttle flour and fait, try it pi fitte ptippings or butter, let the drippings be very C ho,t before you put m the fifli, but do not let it burn, ..if yon dp it will make the fhh black : when the tifh .is in, the pan, you may do the. other tide with the egg, gad as you fry it lay it to drain before the tire till all pe fiied, .then it is ready for utc. £221. To nUikc Saucy jor Sahfiou or Turbot. .Jioil your turbot ortalinon, and fet it to drain; take the gravy that drains from the falmon or turbot, an anchovy or tw o, a little lepton-peel Hired, a fpoon- ful of patchup, tpid a little butter, thicken it with flour the thickiiefs of cream, put to it a little fined parfley and fennel; but do not put in your parflcy and fennel till you be juft going to fend it up, for it : will take off tla-'grein. '99 The gravy of all forts of fifhis a great addition-to your fauce, if the fdh be fyvcet. , 222. To dress Cod's Zoons. Lie them in water all night, and then boil them, if they be fat fh-ift them once in the boiling, when they are tender cut them in Iong pieces, drefs them up with eggs as you do fait fi(h, take one or two of them and cut into fquare pieces, dip them in egg and fry them to lay round yourdilh. It is proper to lie about any other dilh. 223. To make Solomon Gundy to eat in Lent. Take five or fix white herrings, lay them in water all night, boil them as foft as you would do for eat- ing, and fhift them in the boiling to take out the falt- nefs; when they are boiled take the fifh from the bone, and mind you don’t break the bones in pieces, leaving on the head and tail; take the white part of the herrings, a quarter of a pound of anchovies, a large apple, a little onion fhred fine, or Ihalot, and a little lemon peel, fhred them all trigether, and lie them over the bones on both fides, in the fhape of a herring ; then take off the peel of a lemon very thin, and cut it in long bits, juft as it will reach over the herrings; yon muit lie this peel over every herring pretty thick. Garnifh your dilh with a few pickled oyfters, capers and mulhrooms, if you have any ; fo ferve them up. 224. Solomon Gundy another way. Take the white part of a turkey, or other fowl, ;f I z100 •tyou have neither, take a little white veal and mince it pretty fmall; take a little hung beef or tongue, ferape them very fine, a few fhred capers, and the yolks of four or five eggs fhred fmall, take a delf difh and lie a delf plate in the difh with the wrong fide up, fo lie on your meat and other ingredients, all fingle in quarters, one to anfwer another; fet in the middle a large lemon or mango, fo lie round your difh, an- chovies in lumps, pickled oyfters or cockles, and a few pickled mufhrooms, flices of lemon and capers; fo ferve it up. This is proper for a fide-difn, either at noon or night. 225. To make Lemon Cheese-Cakes. Blanch half a pound of almonds, and beat them in a Hone mortar very fine, with a little rofe water, put in eight eggs, leaving out five of the whites ; take three quarters of a pound of fugar, and three quar- ters of a pound of butter melted, beat all together, then take three lemon fkins, boiled tender, the rind of all, beat them veiy well, and mix them with the reft, then put them into your palle. You may make a lemon-pudding the fame way, only add the juice of half a lemon.—Before you fet them in the oven, grate over them a little fine loaf fugar. 22(5. To make While Ginger-Bread. Take a little gum-dragon, lay it in rofe water all night, then take a pound of Jordan almonds blanched vtrjth a little of the gum water, a pound of double- refined fugar beat and lifted, an ounce of cinnamon beat with a little rofe-water, work it into a palle and print it, then fet it in a (love to dry.101 237- To make Red Ginger-Bread. • Take a quart and ajillof red wine, and a jill and a half of brandy, feven or eight manchets according to the fize the bread is, grate them (the cruft muft be , dried, beat and fifted, three pounds and a half of fu- gar beat and fifted) two ounces of cinnamon, and two ounces of ginger beat and fifted, a pound of almonds blanched and beat with rofe water, put the bread into the liquor by degrees, ftirring it all the time* when the bread is all well mixed take it off the fire ; you muft put the fugar, fpices, and almonds into it, when it is cold print it; keep fome of the fpice to dull the prints with* 228. To make a Great Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour (let it be dried very well before the fire) and fix pounds of currants well drefied and rubbed in cloths after they are wafhed, fet them in a fieve before the fire ; you muft weigh yoijr currants after they are cleaned, then take three quar- ters of an ounce of mace, two large nutmegs beaten and mixed amongft the flour, a pound of powder fu- gar, a pound of citron, and a pound of candied orange (cut your citron and orange in pretty large pieces) and a pound of almonds cut in three or four pieces long way ; then take lixteen eggs, leaving oiit half of the whites, beat your fugar and eggs for half an hour with a little fait ; take three Jills of cream, and three pounds and a half of butter, melt your but- ter with part of the cream, for fear it fhouhl be too hot, put in between a jack and a jill of good brandy, a quart of light yeaft, and the reft of the cream, mix all your liquors together about blood warm, make a 1 S102 hole in the middle of your flour, and put in the li- quids, cover it half an hour, and let it Hand to rife, then put in your currants and mix all together ; but- ter your hoop, tie a paper three fold, and put it at the bottom in your hoop ; juft when they are ready to fet in the oven, put the cake into your hoop at three times ; when you have laid a little pafte at the bottom, lay in part of your fweetmeats and almonds, then put in a little pafle over them again, and the reft, of your fweetmeats and almonds, then lay on the reft of your pafte, and fet it in a quick oven ; two hours will bake it. 229- To make Iccing for this Calc. Take two pounds of double refined fugar, beat jt, and lift it through a fine fieve ; put to it a fpoon- ful of fine ftarch, a pennyworth of gum-arabic, beat them all well together ; take the whites of four or five eggs, beat them well, and put to them a (point- ful of rofe water, or orange-flower water, a fpoot ful of the juice of lemon, beat them with the whites of your eggs, and put in a little to your fugar till you wet it, then beat them for two hours whilit y<>ur cake is baking ; if you make it over thin it w ill run ; when you lie it on your cake you mull lie it on with a knife ; jf you would have the iccing very thick, you mull add a little more lugar; wipe off tlie loote currants before you put on the iccing, and put it into the oven to harden the iceing. 230. To make a Plum-Cake. Take five pounds of flour dried and cold, mix to it an ounce oF-mace, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quar- ter of ait ounce of nut meg, half -a; quar;er.ot an ounceJO 3 of lemon peel grated, and a pound of fine fngar ; take fifteen eggs, leaving out feven of the whites, beat your eggs with half a jill of brandy or fack, a little orange-flower water, or rofe water ; then put to your eggs near a quart of light yeafl, fet it on the fire with a quart of cream, and three pounds of butter ; let your butter melt in the cream, fo let it ffand till new milk warm, then fkim off all the butter and moil of the milk, and mix it to your eggs and ycalt ; make a hole in the middle of your flour, and put in your yeaft, itrinkle at the top a little flour, then mix to it a little fait, fix pounds of currants well walked, cleaned, dried, picked, and plumped by the fire, a pound of the belt raiiins floned, and beat them all together whillt they leave the bowl ; put in a pound of candied orange, and half a pound of citron cut in long pieces; then butter the girth and fiil it full ; bake it in a quick oven, againtl it be enough have aii iceir.g ready. 231, To make a Caraway-Cake. Take eighteen eggs, leave out half of the whites, and beat them ; take two pounds of butter, wafh the butter clear from milk and lalt, put to it a little rofe- water, and work your butter very well with your bands till it take up all [lie eggs, then mix them in half a jack of brandy and lack ; grate into your eggs a lemon rind ; put in by degrees (a fpoonful at a time) two pounds of fine flour, a pound and a half of loaf fugar, that is lifted and dry ; when you have mixed them very well with your hands, take a thiblc and beat it very well for half an hour, till it look very white, then mix to it a few feeds, fix ounces of cara- way comfits, and half a pound of citron and candied104 orange ; then beat it well, butter your girth, and put it in a quick oven. 232. To make Cahe-s to keep all the Year. Have in readinefs a pound and four ounces of flour well dried, take a pound of butter unfalted, work it with a pound of white fugar till it cream, three fpoon- fuls of fack, and the rind of an orange, boil it till it is not bitter, and beat it with fugar, work ihefe to- gether, then clean your hands, and grate a nutmeg into your flour, put in three eggs and two whites, mix them well, with the pafte-pin or thible Air in your flour to the butter, make them up into little cakes, wet the top with fack and llrew on fine fugar ; bake them on buttered papers, well floured, but not too much ; you may add a pound of currants waflted and warmed. 233. To inake Shrewsbury-Cakcs. Take two pounds of fine flour, put to it a pound and a quarter of butter (rub them very well) a pound and a quarter of fine fugar lifted, grate in a nutmeg, beat in three whites of eggs and two yolks, with a little rofe-water, and lo knead your palle with it, let it lay an hour, then make it up into cakes, prick them and lay them on papers, wet them with a fea- ther dipped in rofe-water, and grate over them a lit- tle line fugar ; bake them in a flow oven, either on tins or paper. 234. To make a fine Cake. Take five pounds of fine flour dried, and keep it warm ; four pounds of loaf fugar pounded ; lifted and warmed ; five pounds of currants wcil clean id105 and wanned before the fire ; a pound and a half ot almonds blanched, beat, dried, Hit and kept warm ; five pounds of good butter well wafhed and beat from the water ; then work it an hour and a half till it comes to a fine cream ; put to the butter all the fu- gar, work it up, arid then the flour, put in a pint of brandy, then all the whites and yolks of the eggs, mix all the currants and almonds with the reft. There mull be four pounds of eggs in weight in the fhells, the yolks and the whites beat them feparate, the whites beat to a froth ; you mull not ceafe beat- ing till they are beat to a curd, to prevent oiling ; to this quantity of cake put a pound and a half of orange peel and citron Aired, without plums, and half a pound of caraway feeds, it will require four hours baking, and the oven mult be as hot as for bread, but let it be well flaked when it has remained an hour in the oven, and flop it dole ; you may ice it if you pleafe. 235. To make a Seed-Cake. Take one quartern of fine flour well dried before the fire ; when it is cold rub in a pound of butter; take three quarters of a pound of caraway comfits, fix fpoonfuls of new yealt, fix fpoonfuls of cream, the yolks of fix eggs and two w hites, and a little fack ; mix all thefe together in a very light pafte, fet it be- fore the fire till it rife, and fo bake it in a tin. 256'. To make an ordinary Plum-Cake. Take a pound of flour well dried before the fire, a pound ot currants, two pennyworth of mace and cloves, two eggs, four fpoonfuls of good new yeaft, halt a pound ot butter, halt a pint of cream, melt the106 butter, warm the cream, and mix all together in a very light pafte, butter your tin before you put it in ; an hour will bake it. 237. To make qn Angelica-Cake. Take the {talks of angelica, boil and green them very well, put to every pound of pulp a- pound of loaf-fugar beaten very well, and when you think it is beaten enough, lay them in what fafhion you pleafe on glaftes, and as they candy turn them. 238. To make King-Cakes. Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of fugar, and half a pound of currants, well cleaned ; rub your butter well over your flour, and put in as many yolks of eggs as will lythe them, then put in your fugar, currants, and fome mace, Aired in as much as will give them a tafte, fo make them up in little round cakes, and butter the papers you lie them on. 239- To make Breakfast-Cakes. Take a pound of currants well wafhed (rub them in a cloth till dry) a pound of flour dried before a fire, take three eggs, leave out one of the whites, four fpoonfuls of new yeaft, and four fpoonfuls of fack or two of brandy, beat the yeaft and eggs well together ; then take a Jill of cream, arid fomething above a quarter of a pound of butter, fet them on a fire, and ftir them till the butter be melted, but do not let them boil, grate a large nutmeg into the flour, with currants, and five ipoonfuls of fugar j mix all together, beat it with your hand till it leave the bowl, then flour the tins you put the pafte in.and let them ftand a little to rife, then bake them an hour and a quarter, 240. To make Macaroons. Take a pound of blanched almonds and beat them, put fortie rofe-water in while beating (they mutt not be beaten too fmall) mix them with the whites of five e£Ss> a pound of fugar finely beaten and fitted, and a handful of flour, mix all thefe very well together, lay them on wafers, and bake them in a very tempe- rate o\’en (it tnuft not be fo hot as for manghet) then they ate fit .'for ufe. 241. To make JViira-s. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of butter, a pint of cream, four eggs (leaving out two of the whites) and two fpoonfuls of yeatt, fet them to rife a little; when they are mixed add half a pound of fugar, and half a pound of caraway comfits, make them up with fugar, and bake them in a dripping 242. To make Raspberry-Calces. I ake rafpberries, bruife them, put them in a pan on a quick fire uliilfl the juice be dried up, then take the fame weight of fugar as you have of rafpberries, and let them on a flow fire, let them boil whiltt they are pretty (tiff; make them into cakes, and dry them near the fire, or in the fun. 243. To make Queen-Cakes. Take a pound of fine flour dried well before the ■re, nine eggs, a pound of loaf-fugaf beaten and luted, put one half to your eggs and the other to103 your butter ; take a pound of butter and melt it without water, put it into a (tone bowl, when it is almoft cold put in your fugar, and a fpoonful or two of rofe-water ; beat it very quick for half an hour, till it be as white as cream ; beat the eggs and fugar as long and very quick, whilft. they be white ; when they are well beat mix them all together ; then take half a pound of currants cleaned well; and a little fhred mace, fo you may fill one part of your tins be- fore you put in your currants; you may put a quar- ter of a pound of almonds Ihred (if you pleafe) into them that are without the currants ; you may ice them if you pleafe, but do not let the iceing be thicker than you may lie on with a little brulh. 244. To make a Biscuit-Cake. Take a pound of fine flour dried before the fire, a pound of loaf-fugar beaten and fifted, beat nine eggs and a fpoonful or two of rofe water with the fugar for two hours, then put them to your flour and mix them well together ; put in an ounce of caraway feeds, then put it into your tin and bake it an hour and a half in a pretty quick oven. 24.). To make Cracknels. Take half a pound of fine flour, half a pound of fugar, two ounces of butter, two eggs, and a few caraway feeds ; (you mull beat and lift the fugar) then put it to your flour and work it to palte ; roll them as thin as you can, and cut them out with queen-cake tins, lie them on papers and bake them in a flow oven. They are proper to eat with chocolate.109 Q-iG. To make Portugal Cakes. Take a pound of flour, a pound of butter, a pound of iugar, a pound of currants well cleaned, and a nutmeg grated ; take half of the flour and mix it with fugar and nutmeg, melt the butter and put into it the yolks of eight eggs very well beat, and only four of the whites, and as the froth rifes put it into the flour, and do fo till all is in; then beat it toge- ther, Itill brewing in fome of the other half of the flour, and beat it till all the flour be in, then butter the pans and All them, but do not bake them too much ; you may ice them if you pleafe, or you may itrew caraway comfits of all forts on them when they go into the oven. The currants mull be plumped in warm water, and dried before the fire, then put them into your cakes. 247- To wake Plum-Cakes another way. Take two pounds of butter, beat it with a little rofe-water and orange-flower water till it be like cream, two pounds of flour dried before the fire, a quarter of an ounce of mace, a nutmeg, half a pound of loaf- fugar beat ..nd lifted, fifteen eggs (beat the whites by themfelves and yolks with your fugar) a jack of brandy and as much lack, two pounds of currants very well cleaned, and half a pound of almonds blanched and cut in two or three pieces length-way, lo mix all together, and put it into your hoop or tin ; you may put in half a pound of candied orange and citron it you plcate ; about an hour will bake it in a quick oven ; if you have a mind to have it iced, a pound of fugar will ice it. K248. To make a Ginger-Bread Cake. Take two pounds of treacle, two pounds and a quarter of flour, an ounce of beat ginger, three quar- ters of a pound of fugar, two ounces of coriander feeds, two eggs, a pennyworth of new ale with the yeaft on it, a glafs of brandy, and two ounces of lemon-peel, mix all thefe together in a bowl, and fet it to rife for half an hour, then put it into a tin to bake, and wet it with a little treacle atjd water ; if you have a quick oven an hour and a half will bake it. 24<). To make Chocolate ('ream. Take four ounces of chocolate, more or Ids, ac- cording as you would have your difh in bignefs, grate it and boil it in a pint ot cream, then mill it very well with a chocoiate flick ; take the yolks of two eggs and beat them very well, leaving out the drains, put to them three or four fpoonfuls of cream, mix them all together, fet it on the tire and keep flirring it till it thickens, but do not let it boil: you mult fweeten it to your fade, and keep llirring it till it be cold, fo put it into your glades or china dilhes, which you pleale. 250. To make While Lemon ('ream. Take a jill of fpring water and a pound of fine fvt- gar, fet it over the fire till the fugar pud water be difiolved, then put the juice of four good lemons to your fugar and water, the whites of four eggs well beat, fet it on the fire again, and keep it flirring one way till it juft fimmers and does not boil, drain it through a fine cloth, then put it on the fire again,Ill adding to it a fpoonful of orange-flower water, ftir it till it 'thickens on a flow fire, then ftrain it into bafons or glafles for your ufe, do not let it boil, if you do it will curdle. 231. To make Cream Curds. Take a gallon of water, put to it a quart of new milk, and a little fait, a pint of l'weet cream and eight eggs, leaving out half of the whites and drains, beat them very well, put to them a pint of four cream, mix them very well together, and when your pan is jult at boiling (but it mult not boil) put in the four cream and your eggs, ttir it about to keep it from fettling to the bottom ; let it Hand till it begins to rile up, then have a little fair water, and as they rife keep putting it in whillt they be well rilen, then take them off the fire, and let them Hand a little to fadden ; have ready a lieve with a clean cloth over it, and take up the curds with a ladle or egg-flicer, whether you have ; you mull always make them the night before you ufe them ; this quantity will make a large dilh if your cream be good ; if you think your curds be too thick, mix to them two or three fpoon- fuls of good cream, lie them upon a china difh in lumps ; lo ferve them up. 232. To make Apple Cream. Take half a dozen of large apples (codlings or any other apples that will be loft) coddle them ; when they are cold take out the pulp ; then take the whites of four or live eggs (leaving out the drains) three quarters of a pound of double refined fugar ■ beat and flfted, a fpoonful or two of rofe-water and grate in a little lemon-peel, lo beat all together for an 1 K 2112 hour, until it be white, then lay it on a china dilh, fo ferve it up. 253. To fry Cream to eat hot. Take a pint of cream and boil it, three fpoonfuls of fine flour, mixed with a little milk, put in three eggs, and beat them very well with the flour, a lit- tle fait, a fpoonful or two of fine powder fugar, mix them Very well; then put your cream to them on the fire and boil it ; then beat two more eggs very well, and when you take your pan oft'the fire ftir them in, and pour them into a large pewter difli about half an inch thick; when it is quite cold cut it out in fquare bits and fry it in butter, a light brown ; as you fry them fet them before the fire to keep hot and crifp, fo dilh them up with a little white wine, butter and fugar for your fauce, in a china cup, fet it in the midft, and grate over fome loaf-fugar. 254 To make Rice or Almond Cream. Take two quarts of cream, boil it with what fea- foning you pleafe, then take it from the fire and fvveeten it, pick out the fcafoning and divide it into two parts, take a quarter of a pound of blanched al- monds well beat with orange-flower water, fet that on the fire, and put to it the yolks of four eggs well beat and ftrained, keep it llirring all the time it is on the fire, when it rifes to boil take it off, ftir it a little, then put it into your bafon, the other half let on the fire, and thicken it with flour of rice ; when you take it off put to it the juice of a lemon, orange-flower water or faek, and ftir it till it be cold, then ferve it tip.J13 25.5. To make Calf 's Foot Jelly. Take four calf’s feet and drefs them, boil them in fix quarts of water over a flow fire, whilll all the bones will come out, and half the water be boiled away, ftrain it into a ltone bowl, then put to them two or three quarts more water, and let it boil away to one. If you want a large quantity of flummery or jelly at one time, take two calf’s feet more, it will make your flock the ftronger; you muft make your flock the day before you ufe it, and before you put your flock into the pan take off the fat, and put it into your pan to melt, take the white's'of eight or ten eggs, jufl as you have jelly in quantity (for the more whites you have makes your jelly the finer) beat your whites to a froth, and put to them five or fix lemons, accoiding as they are for goodnefs, a little white wine or rhenifh, mix them well together (but let not your flock be too hot when you put them in) and fweeten it to your tafte; keep it ftirring all the time whillt it boils ; take your bag and dip it in hot water, and wring it well out, then put in your jelly, and keep it Ihifting whilll it comes clear; throw a lemon-peel or two into your bag as the jelly is com- ing off, and put fome bits of peel into your glaffes. You may make hart (horn jelly the fame way. 256. To make Orange Cream. Take two Seville oranges, and peel them very thin, put the peel into a pint of fair water, and let it lie for an hour or two ; take four eggs, and beat them very well, pu» to them the juice of three or four oranges, according as they are in goodnefs, and fweeten them with double refined fugar to your tatlc ; K /114 mix the water and fugar together, and drain them through a fine cloth into your tankard, and let it over the fire as you did the lemon cream, and put it into your glaffes for ufe. 257. Yellow Lemon Cream. Take two or three lemons, according as they are in bignefs, take off the peel as thin as you can from the white, put it into a pint of clear water, and let it lay three or four hours, take the yolks of three or four eggs, beat them very well, about eight ounces of double refined fugar. put it into your water to rliffolve, add a fpoonful or two of role-water or orange-flower water, which you can get, mix all to- gether with the juice of two of your lemons, and if your lemons prove not good, put in the juice of three, fo drain them through a fine cloth into a filver tank- ard, and fet it over a Hove or chafing dilh, ilirring it all the time, and when it begins to be as thick as cream take it off, but don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle, llir it whilft it be cold, and put it into glaffcs for ufe. I 258 Jlliile Lemon Cream another way. Take a pint cf fpring water, and the whites of fix eggs, beat them very well to a froth, put them to your water, adding to it half a pound of double refined fugar, a fpoontul of orange-flower water, and the juice of three lemons, fo mix all together, and drain them thiough a fine cloth into your iilver tank- aid, fet it over a flow fire in a chafing diflr, and keep during it all the time ; as you tee it thickens take itoff, it will (boner curdle than be yellow, dir it until it be cold, and put it in (mail jelly glades for ufe. . 259- Sago Custards. Take two ounces of fago, wadi it in a little water, fet it on to cree in a pint of milk, and let it cree till it be tender, when it is cold put to it three jills of cream, boil it all together with a blade or two of mace, or a (tick of cinnamon ; take fix eggs, leave out the (trains, beat them very well, mix a little of your cream amonglt your eggs, then mix all toge- ther, keep dining it as you put it in, fo fet it over a dow fire, and dir it about whild it be the thicknefs of good cream ; you mud not let it boil; when you take it oft the fire put in a tea cup full of brandy, and fweeten it to your tade, then put it into your pots or glades for ufe. You may have half the quantity if yoti pleafe. ‘200. Almond Custards. Boil two quarts of fvveet cream with a dick of cin- namon ; take eight eggs, leaving out all the whites but two, beat them very well; take fix ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little rofe-water, fo give them a boil in your cream ; put in half a pound of powder fugar, and a little of your cream amongd your eggs, mix all together, and fet them o^er a dow fire, i'tir it all the time until it be as thick as cream, but don’t let it boil ; when you take it ofi put in a little brandy to your tafic, io put it into your cups for ufe. You may make rice-cuflards the fume way.2 61. A Sack Posset. Take a quart of cream, boil it with two or three blades of mace, and grate in a long bifcuit; take eight eggs, leave out half of the whites, beat them very well, and a pint of goofeberry wine, make it hot, fo mix it well with your eggs, fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it about till it be as thick as cuftard ; fet a difh that is deep over a ilove, put in your fack and eggs, when your cream is boiling hot, put it to your lack by degrees, and ftir it all the time it Hands over your ftove, until it be thoroughly hot, but don’t let it boil ; you muft make it about half an hour be- fore you want it ; fet it upon a hot hearth, and then it will be as thick as cuftard ; make a little froth of cream, to lay over the poflet; when you difh it up fweeten it to your tafte ; you may make it without bifcuit if you pleafe, and don’t lay on your froth till you ferve it up. 262. A Lemon Posset. Take a pint of good thick cream, grate into it the outermoft Ikin of two lemons, and fquteze the juice into a jack of white wine, and lweeten it to your tafte ; take the whites of two eggs without the ftrains, beat them to a froth, (o whilk them all together in a ftone bowl for half an hour, then put them into glafles for ufe. 263. Whip Sillabubs. Take two porringers of cream and one of white wine, grate in the Ikin ol a lemon, take the whites of three eggs, fweeten it to vour tafte, then whip it117 with a whiflc, take off the froth as it rifes, and put it into your fillabub glaffes or pots, whether you have, then they are fit for life. 9.6A. Almond Butter. T ake a quart of cream, and half a pound of al- monds, beat them with the cream, then drain it, and boil it with twelve yolks of eggs and two whites, till it curdle, hang it up in a cloth till morning and then fweeten it ; you may rub it through a fieve with the back of a tpoon, or drain it through a coarfe cloth. 965. Black Caps. Take a dozen of middling pippins and cut them in two, take out the cores and black ends, lay them with the fiat fide downwards, fet them in the oven, and when they are about half roaded take them out, wet them over with a little rofe water, and grate over them loaf fugar, pretty thick, fet them into the oven again, and let them dand till they are black ; when you ierve them up, put them either into cream or cudard, with the black fide upwards, and fet them at equal didances. 966. Sauce for Tame Thicks. Take the necks and gizzards of your ducks, a ferag of mutton if you have it, and make a little fweet gravy, put to it a few bread crumbs, a fmall onion, and a little whole pepper, boil them for half a quar- ter of an hour, put to them a lump of butter, and if it is not thick enough a little flour, fo fait it to vour tade. 1118 267. Sauce for a Green Goose. Take a little good gravy, a little butter, and a few fealded goofeberries, mix all together, and put it on the difh with your goofe. 268. Another Sauce for a Green Goose. Take the juice of forrel, a little butter, and a few fealded goofeberries mix them together, and fweeten it to yourtafte; you mu ft not let it boil after you putin the forrel, if you do it will take off the green. You muft put this fauce into a bafon. 269- Almond Flummery. Take a pint of ftiff jelly made of calf’s feet, put to it a jill or better of good cream, and four ounces of almonds, blanch and beat than fine with a little rofe- water, then put them to your cream and jelly, let them boil together for half a quarter of an hour, and fweeten it to yourtafte ; drain it through a fine cloth, and keep it ftirring till it be quite cold, put it in cups and let it Hand all night, loofen it in warm water and turn it out into your difh, fo ferve it up, and prick it with blanched almonds. 270. Calf's Foot Flummery. Take two calf’s feet, when they are dreffed, put two quarts of water to them, boil them over a flow fire till half or better be confumed ; when your flock is cold, if it be too ftiff, you may put to it at qjuch cream as jelly, boil them together with a blade or two of mace, fweeten it to your taile with loaf fugar, ftrain it through a fine cloth, flir it whilft it be cold,119 and turn it out, but fitft loofen it in warm water, and put it into your dilb as you did the flummery. 271- To stew Shinage with Poached Eggs. I CD O O Take two or three handfuls of young fpinage, pick it rrom the (talks, wafh and drain it very clean, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, keep ftirring it all the time whilfl. it be enough, then take it out and fqueeze out the water, chop it and dir in a little more butter, lay it in your difh in quarters, and betwixt every quarter a poached egg, and lay one in the middle ; fry lome lippets of white bread and prick them in your fpinage, fo ferve them up. This is proper lor a lide difli either for noon or night. 272. 7b make Rata/ia Drops. 1 ake half a pound of the heft Jordan almonds, and fom ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and fet them before the fire to dry, beat them in a marble mortar with a little white ol an egg. then put to them half a pound of powder iugar, and beat them all together to a pretty llifF palle ; you may beat yottr white of egg very well befoie you put it in, fo take it out, roll it with your hand upon a board with a little fugar, t leu cut them in pieces, and lay them on flieets of tin or paper, at equal didances, that they don’t touch one qiiother, and let them in a flow oven to bake. 27.3 To fry Artichoke Bottoms. I ake artichoke bottoms when they are at the full gr?i a-’ ,anl1 botl t,lein a» you would do for eating, pu oil the eaves and take out the choke, cut olT the talks as dole as you can from the bottom, take two120 or three eggs, beat them very well, fo dip your arti- chokes in them and ilrew over them a little pepper and fait ; fry them in butter, fome whole and fome in halves; ferve them up with a little butter in a china cup, fet it in the middle of your dilh lay your artichokes round, and ferve them up. They are proper for a fide-dilh either noon or night. 274. To fricassee Artichokes. Take artichokes, and order them the fame way as you did for frying, have ready in a ftew-pan a few morels and truffles, Hewed in blown gravy, fo put in your aitichokes, and give them a (hake all together in your ftew-pan and lerve them up hot, with lippets round them. 275. To dry Artichoke Bottoms. Take, the largeft artichokes you can get, when they are at their full growth, boil them as you would do for eating, pull off the leaves and lake out the choke ; cut oft the italk as clofe as you can, lay them on a tin dripping pan, or an earthen difli, fet them in a flow oven, lor it your oven be too hot it will brown them, you may dry them bclore the lire it you have conve- niency ; when they are dry put them in paper bags, and keep them tor ufe. « 27ft To stew Apples. Take a pound of double refined fugar, with a pint of water, boil and lkirn it, and put into it a pound of the largeft and cleared pippins, pared and cut in halves; if little, let them be whole ; core them and boil them with a continual froth, till they be as tender121 and clear as you would have them, put in the juice of two lemons (but firll takeout the apples) a little peel cut like threads, boil down your fyrup as thick as you would have it, then pour it over your apples ; when you dilh them, Hick them with little bits of candied orange, and fome with almonds cut in long bits, fo ferve them up. \ ou mull Hew them the day before you ufe them. 277. To stew Apples another way. Take Kentilh pippins or John apples, pare and flice them into fair water, fet them on a clear fire, ami when they are boiled to mafh, let the licjuor run through a hair lieve ; boil as many apples thus as will make the quantity ol liquor you would have ; to a pint of this liquor you mull have a pound of double refined loar fugar in great lumps, wet the lumps of fu- gar «iih the pippin liquor, and fet it over a gentle fire, let it boil, and Ikim it well; whilft you are making the jelly, you mull have your whole pippins boiling at the lame time; (they mull be the faircil and belt pippins you can get) icope.out the cores, and pare t lem neatly, put them into lair water as you do . t lem ; you mull likewiie make a fyrup ready to put liitm into, the quantity as you think will bull them m oeur; make the fyrup with double refined fu<rar ano water, lie up your whole pippins 1.1 a piece°of fine cloth or muflin leverally, when your fugar and water boils put them in, let them boil very fail, f0 tau that the iyrup always boils over them ; fome- i-*ne-> taKe them oil and then fet them on again, let t.icm boil nil they be clear and tender; then take off he mulim they were tied up m, and put them into g-ai.es mat wtii heju but one an a glals; then fee if 1.122 your jelly of John apples be boiled to jelly enough, if it be, fqueeze in the juice of two lemous, and let it have a boil; then drain it through a jelly bag into the glaffes your pippins are in ; you mull be fure that your pippins be well drained from the fyrup they were boiled in ; before you put them into theglalfes, you may, if you pleafe, boil little pieces of lemon- peel in water till they be tender, and then boil them in the fyrup your pippins were boiled in ; then take them out and lay them upon the pippins before the jelly is put in, and when they are cold paper them up. 278. To make Plum Gruel. Take half a pound of pearl barley, fet it on to cree ; put to it three quarts of water; when it is. boiled a while, Ihift it into another frelh water, and put to it three or four blades of mace, a little lemon- peel cut in long pieces, fo let it boil whilit the bar- ley be very foft; if it be too thick you may add a lit- tle more water ; take half a pound of currants, wafh them well and plump them, and put to them your barley, half a pound of raiftns and ilone them ; let them boil in the gruel whilll they are plump, when they are enough put to them a little white wine, a little juice of lemon, grate in halt a nutmeg, and fweeteri it to your taile, lo ferve them up. * % 27.9. Rice. Gruel. > Boil half a pound of rice in two quarts of foft wa- ter, as loft as you would have it lor rice milk, with fome dices of lemon peel, and a llick of cinnamon; add to it a little white wine and juice of lemon to voui taile, put in a little candied orange diced thin,,1 23 and fweeten it with fine powder fugar ; don’t let it boil after you put in your wine and lemon, put it in a china di(h, with five or fix flices of lemon, fo ferve it up. 280. Scotch Custard, to eat hot for Supper. Boil a quart of cream with a dick of cinnamon, and blade of mace; take fix eggs, both yolks and whites (leave out the (trains) and beat them very well, grate a long bifcuit into your cream, give it a boil before you put in your eggs, mix a little of your cream amongfl your eggs before you put them in, fo fet it over a (low fire, (lining it about whillt it be thick, but don’t let it boil; take half a pound of currants, wa(h them very well and plump them, then put them to your cudard ; you muft let your cudard be as thick as will bear the currants, that they don’t fink to the bottom; when you are going to di(h it up, put in a large glafsof fack, (lir it very well, and ferve it up in a china bafon. 281. A dish of Mulled Milk. Boil a quart of new milk with a (lick of cinnamon, then put to it a pint of cream, and let them have one boil together, take eight eggs (leave out half of the whites and all the drains) beat them very w'ell, put to them a jill of milk, mix all together, and fet it over a (low fire, dir it whilll it begins to thicken like cuf- tard, fweeten it to your tallc, and grate in half a nutmeg; then put it into your difh with a toad' of white bread. This is proper for a fupper. L 2124 282. A Leach. Take two ounces of ifinglafs arid break it into bits, put it into hot water, then put half a pint of new milk into the pan with the ifinglafs, fet it on the fire to boil, and put into it three or four {ticks of good cinnamon, two blades of mace, a nutmeg quartered, and two or three cloves, boil it till the ifinglafs be diffolved, run it through a hair-fieve into a large pan, then put to it a quart of cream fweetened to your tafte with loaf-fugar, and boil them awhile together ; take a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds beaten in rofe-water, and {train out all the juice of them into the cream on the fire and warm it, then take it off and ftir it well together ; when it has cooled a little take a broad {hallow difli and put it into it through a hair-fieve, when it is cold cut it in long pieces, and lay it acrofs whilll you have a pretty large difh ; fo ferve it up. Sometimes a lefs quantity of ifinglafs will do, ac- cording to the goodnefs : let it be the whiteft and cleareft you can get. You mull make it the day before you want it for ufe. 283. Scotch Oysters. Take two pounds of the thick part of a leg ofveai, cut it in little bits clear from the ikins, and put it in a marble mortar, then Hired a pound of bee! fuct and put to it, and beat them well together till they be as fine as pafte ; put to it a handful of bread crumbs and two or three eggs, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, and work it well together; take one part of your forced-meat and wrap it in the kell, about the bignels of a pigeon, the reft make into little flat125 L 3 cakes and fry them ; the rolls you may either broil in a dripping-pan, or fet them in an oven ; three are enough in a difh, fet them in the middle of the difh, and lay the cakes round, then take fome ftrong gra- vy, ihred in a few capers, and two or three mulhrooms or oyfters if you have any, fo thicken it up with a lump of butter, and ferve it up hot. Garnilh your difh with pickles. 284. To boil Broccoli. Take broccoli when it is feeded, or at any other time ; take off all the low leaves of your ftalks and tie them up in bunches as you do afparagus, cut them the fame length you peel your ftalks ; cut them in little pieces and boil them in fait and water by themfelves ; you muft let your water boil before you put them in; boil the heads in fait and water, and let the water boil before you put in the broccoli; put in a little butter; it takes very little boiling, and if it boils too quick it will take off all the beads; you muft drain your broccoli through a fieve as you do afparagus; lie the ftalks in the middle, and the bunches round it, as you would do afparagus. T his is proper either for a .fide difh ora middle difh. 2SJ. 7b boil Savoy Sprouts. If your favoys be cabbaged, duels off the out leaves and out them in quarters ; take off a little of the hard ends, and boil them in a large quantity of water with a little Ink ; when boiled drain them, lie them round your meat, and pour over them a little butter.12 6 Any tiling will boil greener in a large quantity of water than otherwife. 286. To boil Cabbage Sprouts. Take your fprouts, cut off the outfide leaves and the hard ends, fhred and boil them as you do other greens, not forgetting a little butter. 287- To fry Parsnips to look like Trout. Take a middling fort of pnrfnips, not over thick, boil them as foft as you would do for eating, peel and cut them in two, the long way ; you mult only fry the fmall ends, not the thick ones; beat three or four eggs, put to them a fpoonful of flour, dip in your parfnips, and fry them in butter a light brown, have for your fauce a little vinegar and butter,; fry lome flices to lie round about the difh, and fo ferve them up. 288. To 7Uake Tansey another n ay. Take an old penny loaf, and cut off the crult, (lice it thin, put to it as much hot cream 3S will wet it, then put to it fix eggs well beaten, a little fhred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and fait, and fweeten it to your tafte ; green it as you did your tanfey ; fo tie it up in a cloth and boil it ; (it will take an hour and a quarter boiling) when you difh it up Hick it with candied orange, and lie a Seville orange cut in quarters round your difh ; ferve it up with a little plain butter. 28.9. Gooseberry Cream. Take a quart of goofeberries, pick, coddle, and bruife them very well in a marble mortar or wooden127 bowl, and rub them with the back of a fpoon through a hair fieve, till you take out all the pulp from the feeds; take a pint of thick cream, mix it well among your pulp, grate in fome lemon-peel, and fweeteu it to your tafte ; ferve it up either in a china dilh or an earthen one. 290. To fry Parsnips another way. Boil your parfnips, cut them in pieces about the length of your finger, dip them in egg and a little flour, and fry them a light brown ; when they are fried difli them up, and grate over them a little fu- gar : you mull have for the fauce a little white wine, butter and fugav, in a bafon, and let in the middle of your difh. 291- To make Apricot Pudding. Take ten apricots, pare, ftonc and cut them in two, put them into a pan with a quarter of a pound of loaf lugar, boil them pretty quick till they look clear, fo let them Hand till they are cold ; then take fix eggs (leave out half of the whites) beat them very well, add to them a pint of cream, mix the cream and eggs well together with a fpoonful of rofe-water, then put in your apricots, and beat them very well together, with four ounces of clarified butter, then put it into your difit with a thin palte under it j half an hour will bake it. 292. Apricot Custard. Take a pint of cream, boil it with a flick of cinna- mon and fix eggs, leave out four of the whites, when your cream is a little cold mix your eggs and cream together, with a quarter of a pound ot fine fugar, fetit over a flow fire, flir it all one way wliilft it begins to be thick ; then take it off and ftir it whilft it be a li tie cold, and pour it into your difh ; take fix apri- cots, as you did for your pudding, rather a little higher ; when they are cold lie them upon your cuf- tard at equal diltances ; if it be at the time when you have no ripe apricots, you may lie preferved apricots. l2y:3. Jumbcills another way. Take a pound of meal and dry it, a pound of fu- gar finely beat, and mix thefe together; then take the yolks of five or fix eggs, half a jill of thick cream, or as much as will make it up to a pafte, and fome coriander feeds, lay them on tins and prick them ; bake them in a quick oven; before you fet them in the oven wet them with a little rofe-water and double-refined fugar to ice them. Peach or Apricot Chip*. Take a pound of chips to a pound of fugar, let not your apricots be too ripe, pave them and cut them into large chips ; take three quarters of a pound of fine fugar, ftreiv moll of it upon the chips and let them Hand till the lugar be diffolved, fet the n on the fire and boil them till they are tender and clear, firewing the remainder of the fugar cm as they boil, fitirn them clear, and lay them in glafles or pots li gle, with fome fyrup, cover them with double refined lugar, fet them in a Hove and when they are crilpmi one fide turn the other on glafles and parch them, then fet them into a Hove again; when they are pretty dry pour them on hair lieves till they a, e dry enough to put up.129 i 295. Sago Gruel. Take four ounces of fago and wafh it, fet it over a flbw fire to cree in two quarts of fpririg water, let it boil whilft it be thickifii and foft, put in a blade or two of mace, and a ftick of cinnamon, let it boil in a while, and then put in a little more water ; take it off, put to it a pint of claret, and a little candied orange ; then put in the juice of a lemon, and Iweeten it to your tafte ; fo lerve it up. 296. Spinage Toasts. Take a handful or two of young fpinage and wall) it, drain it from the water, put it into a pan with a lump of butter, and a little fait, let it Hew whilft it. be tender, only turn it in the boiling, then take it up and fqueeze out the water, put in another lump of butter and chop it fmall, put to it a handful of cur- rants plumped, and a little nutmeg ; have three toafts cut from a penny loaf well buttered, then lie on your fpinage. This is proper for a fide dilh either at noon or night. 2.97- To roast a Beast Kidney. Take a beaft kidney with a little fat on, and fluff it all round, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, wrap it in a kell, and put it upon the fpit with a lit- tle water in the dripping-pan ; what drops from your kidney thicken it with a lump of butter and flour for your fauce. To make your Stuffing. Take a handful of fweet herbs ; a few bread130 crumbs, a little beef-fuet fhred fine, and two eggs (leave out the whites) mix all together with a little nutmeg, pepper and fait; Huff your kidney with one part of the ftu cakes, fo ferve 298. To stoic Cucumbers. Take middling cucumbers and cut them in flices, but not too thin, ftrew over them a little fait to bring out the water, put them into a flew-pan or fauce-pan, with a little gravy, fome whole pepper, a lump of butter, and a fpoonful or two of vinegar to your tafte ; let them boil all together ; thicken them with flour, and ferve them up with tippets. 299- To make an Oatmeal Pudding. Take three or four large fpoonfuls of oatmeal done through a hair-fieve, and a pint of milk, put it into a pan and let it boil a little whilft it be thick, add to it half a pound of butter, a fpoonful of rofe-water, a little lemon-peel fhred, a little nutmeg or beaten cin- namon, and a little fait ; take fix eggs (leave out two of the whites) and put to them a quarter of a pound of fugar or better, beat them very well, fo mix them all together, put it into your difh with a pafte round your difh edge ; have a little rofe-water, butter and fugar for fauce. 30 0. O Calf's Head Pie another real/. Half boil your calf’s head, when it is cold cut it in flices, rather thicker than you would do for hath- ing, feafon it with a little mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait, then lie part ot your meat in the bottom of your fifing, and fry the other part in little it up.131 pie, a few capers, pickled oyfters, and mufhrooms ; a layer of one and a layer of another; then put in half a pound of butter and a little gravy ; when your pie comes from the oven, have ready the yolks of fix or eight eggs boiled hard, and lay them round your pie ; put in a little melted butter, and a fpoonful or two of white wine, and give them a (hake together before you lie in your eggs ; your pie muft be a ftanding-pie baked upon a difh, with a puff-pafte round the edge of the difh, but leave no pafte in the bottom of your pie; when it is baked ferve it up without a lid.—This is proper for either top or bot- tom difh. 301. Elder Wine. Take twenty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick and chop them, then put them into a tub with twenty quarts of water, let the water be boiled and hand till it be cold again before you put in your raifins, let them remain together ten days, ltirring it twice a day, then drain the liquor very well from the raifins, through a canvafs drainer or hair-fieve ; add to it fix quarts of elder juice, five pounds of loaf-fugar, and a little juice of floes to make it acid, juft as you pleafe ; put it into a vefiel, and let it flaud in a pretty warm place three months, then bottle it ; the vefiel muft not be (lopped up till it has doiie working; if your raifins be very good you may leave out the fugar. 302. Gooseberiy Wine of ripe Goose- berries. Pick, clean and beat your goofeberries in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, meafure them in quarts up heaped, add two quarts of fpring water, and let them132 dand all night or twelve hours, then rub or prefs out the hulks very well ; drain them through a wide drainer, and to every gallon put three pounds of fu- gar, and a jill of brandy, then put all into a fweet veffel, not very full, and keep it very clofe for four months, then decant it off till it comes clear, pour out the grounds, and wafh the veffel clean with a lit- tle of the wine ; add to every gallon a pound more fugar, let it dand a month in the veffel again, drop the grounds through a flannel bag, and put it to the other in the veffel; the tap hole mud not be over near the bottom of the calk, for fear of letting out the grounds. The lame receipt will ferve for currant wine the fame way ; let them be red currants. 303. Balm Wine. Take a peck of balm leaves put them in a tub or large pot, heat four gallons of water fcaldiug hot, ready to boil, then pour it upon the leaves, lo let it dand all night, then drain them through a hair-lieve ; put to every gallorl of water two pounds of tine lu- gar, and dir it very well ; take the whites of four or live eggs, beat them very well, put them into a pan, and whiflt it very well before it be over hot . when the lkim begins to rile take it oil, and keep ikimming it all the time it is boiling, le.t it boil three quarters ol an hour, then put it into the tub, when it is cold put a little new vealt upon it, and beat it in every two hours, that it may head the better, fo work it tot- two days, then put it into a fweet rundlet, bu.-g it up dole, and when it is line, bottle it.133 I 304. Raisin lline. Take ten gallons of water, and fifty pounds of Malaga raifins, pick out the large (talks and boil them in your water, when the water is boiled, put it into a tub ; take the raifins and chop them very fmall, when your water is blood warm, put in your laihns, and tub them very well with your hand ; when you have put them into the water, let them work for ten days, flit-ring them twice a day, then fttain out the raifins in a hair-fieve, and put them in-' to a clean harden bag, and fqueeze it in the prefs’to take out the liquor, to put it into your barrel 4 don’t let it be over full, bung it up dole, and let it Hand till it is fine ; when you tap your wine you mult not tap it too near the bottom, for fear of the grounds ; when it is drawn off, take the grounds out uf the barrel, and vvath it out with a little of your wine,'then put your wine into the barrel again, draw’your grounds through a flannel bag, arid put them into t ic barrel to the red ; add to it two pounds of luaf- lugar, then bung it up, and let it Hand a week or ten days; if it be very fweet to your talle, let it Hand lome cinre longer, and bottle it. 30 j. Birch JVine. Take your birch water and boil it, clear it with whites ot eggs ; to every gallon of water take two pounds and a half of hne fugar, boil it thiee quarters o: an hour and when it is almoft cold, put in a little yeaH, work it two or three days, then pul it into the bane , and to every five gallons put in a quart of biandy, and half a pound of Honed raifins ; before M 'you put in your wine burn a brimftone match in the barrel. 30(7. White Currant Wine. Take the larged white currants you can get, drip and break them in your hand whilft you break all the berries; to every quart of pulp take a quart of wa- ter, let the water be boiled and cold again, mix them together, let them Hand all night in your tub, then drain them through a hair-fieve, and to every gallon put two pounds and a half of fixpenny fugar ; when your fugar is diflblved, put it into your barrel, dilfolve a little ilinglafs, whifle it with whites of eggs, and put it in ; to every four gallons put in a quart of mountain wine, fo bung up your barrel; when it is fine draw it oft, and take oyt the grounds (but don’t tap the barrel over low at the bottom) walk out the barrel with a little of your wine, and drop the grounds through a bag, then put it to the reft of your wine and put it all into your barrel again, to every gallon add half a pound moie fugar, and let it Hand another week or two; if it be too fweet let it hand a little longer, then bottle it, audit will keep two or three years. 307» Orange Ale. Take forty Seville oranges, pare and cut them in Dices, the bed coloured you can get, put them all with the juice and feeds into half a hoglhead of ale ; when it is tunned up and working, put in the oranges, and at the fame time a pound and a half of raifins of the fun, ftoned ; when it has done working, clofe up the bung, and it vvjjl be ready to drink in a month.J 35 M 2 308. Orange Brandy. Take a quart of brandy, the peels of eight oranges thin pared, keep them in the brandy forty-eight hours in a clofe pitcher, then take three pints of water, put into it three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, boil it till half be confumed, and let it Hand til! cold, then mix it with the brandy. 309. Orange U inc. 3 ake fix gallons ot water and fifteen pounds of powder lugar, the whites of fix eggs well beateii, boil them three quarters of ah hour, and fkim them while any fkim will rife ; when it is cold enough for working, put to it fix ounces of the fyrup of citron or lemons, and fix fpoonfuls of yeaft, beat the fyrup and yeaft well together, and put in the peel and juice of fifty oranges, work it two days and a night, their tun it up into a barrel, fo bottle it at three or four months old. 310. Cowslip Blue. Take ten gallons of water, when it is almoft at boiling, add to it twenty-one pounds of fine powder fugar, let it boil half an hour, and fkim it very clean ; when it is boiled put it in a tub, let it Hand till you think it cold to let oh the yeaft; take a porringer of new yeaH off the vat, and put to it a few cowhips ; when you put on the yeaft, put in a few every time it is Itirred, till all the cowflips be in ; which mult be fix pecks, and let it work three or four days ; add to it fix lemons ; cut off the peel, and the infides put into your barrel; then add to it a pint of brandy ; w len you think it has done working, clofe up your136 vcflel, let it (land a month, and then bottle it; you may let your cowflips lie a week or ten davs to dry before von make your wine, for it makes it much liner ; you may put in a pint of white wine that is good, inftcad of the brandy. 311. Orange Ji me another zvai/. Take fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of fugar, put your fugar into the water on the fire, the whites of fix eggs well beaten, and whifk them into the water, when it is cold flcim it very well whilftany fkim rifes, and let it boil for half an hour ; take fifty oranges, pare them very thin, put them into your tub, pour the water boiling hot upon your parings, and when it is blood warm put on the yeaft, then put in your juice, let it work two days, and fo tun it into your barrel ; at fix weeks or two months old bottle it ; you may put to it in the barrel a quart of brandy. 312. Birch JVine another rcay. To a gallon of birch water put two pounds of loaf or very fine lump fugar, when yon put it into the pan whifk the whites of four eggs; (four whites will ferve for four gnilons) whifk them very well together before it be boiled, when it is cold put on a little yeaft, let it work a night and a day in the tub ; be- fore you pul it into your barrel put in a briinllone match binning; take twopennywcrlh of ilinglafs cut in little bits, put to it a little of your wine, let it ftand within the air of the fire all night ; take the whites of two eggs, heat them with your ilinglafs, put them into your barrel and llir them about with a flick ; this quantity will do for four gallons, to four gallons you muft have two pounds of railins fhred,137 M 3 put them into your barrel, clofe it up, but not too dole at the firfl ; when it is tine bottle it. 313. Apricot /Vine. Take twelve pounds of apricots when full ripe, ftone and pare them, put the parings into three gal- lons of water, with fix pounds of powder fugar, boil them together half an hour, flcim them well, and when it is blood warm put it on the fruit ; it mull be well bruifed, cover it clofe, and let it Hand three days ; flcim it every day as the fkim rifes, and put it through a hair-iieve, adding a pound of loaf fugar ; when you put it into the vellel clofe it up, and when it is fine bottle it. 314. Orange Shrub. Take Seville oranges, when they are full ripe, to three dozen of oianges put half a dozen of large le- mons, pare them very thin, the thinner the better, fqueeze the lemons and oranges together, itrain the juice through a hair-lieve; to a quart of the juice put a pound and a quarter of loaf fugar ; about three dozen of oranges (if they be good; will make a quart of juice, to every quart of juice put a gallon of brandy, put it inti) a little barrel with an open bung with ad the chippings of your oranges, and bung it up clofe ; when it is line bottle it. I his is a pleafant dram, and ready for punch all the year. 313. Strong Mead. Take twelve gallons of water, eight pounds of fn- gar, two quarts of honey, and a tew cloves, when138 your pan boils take the whites of eight or ten eggs, beat them very well, put them into your water be- fore it be too hot, and whilk them very well toge- ther ; do not let it boil but Ikim it as it rifes till it has done riling, then put it into your tub ; when it is about blood warm put to it three fpoonfuls of new yeall; take eight or nine lemons, pare them and fqueeze out the juice, put them both together into your tub, and let them work two or three days, then put it into your barrel, but it mull not be too full ; take two or three pennyworth of ifinglafs, cut it as fmall as you can, beat it in a mortar about a quarter of an hour, it will not make it fmall ; but that it may dilfolve fooncr, draw out a little of the mead into a quart mug, and let it Hand within the air of the lire all night ; take the whites of three eggs, beat them very well, mix them with your ifinglats, whilk them together, and put them into your barrel, bung it up, and when it is fine bottle it. You may order ifinglafs this way to put into any fort of made wine, . 316. Mead another tray. 7'ake a quart of honey, three qt Ot \V3tCTj your honey into the water, when it is diffolved take the whites of four or five eggs, whilk and beat them very well together and put then into your pan ; boil it while the Ik ini rifes, and Hum it very clean ; put it into your tub, when it is warm put in two or three fpoonfuls of light yeall, according to the quantity of your mead, and let it work two nights and a day. To every gallon put in a large lemon, pave and (bain •if, put the juice and peel into your tub, and when it js wrought put it into your barrel; let it work forthree or four days, ftirring it twice a day with a thi- ble, fo bung it up, and let it ftand two or three months, according to the hotnefs of the weather. You muft try your mead two or three times in the above time, and if you find the fweetnefs going off, you mud take it fooncr. 317- Cyder. Draw off the cyder when it hath been a fortnight in the barrel, put it into the fame barrel again when you have cleaned it from the grounds, and if your apples were (harp, and that you find your cyder hard, put into every gallon of cyder a pound and a half of fixpenny or fivepenny fugar ; to twelve gallons of this take half an ounce of ifinglafs, and put to it a quart of cyder; when your ifinglafs is diffolved, put to it three whites of eggs, whifk them all together, and put them into your barrel ; keep it dole for two months, and then bottle it. 3i8. Cores lip I Vine. Take two pecks of peeps, and four gallons of wa- ter, put to every gallon of water two pounds and a quarter of fugar, boil the water and fugar together a quarter of an hour, then put it into the tub to cool, put in the fleins of four lemons, when it is cold bruife your peeps, and put them into your liquor, add to it a jill of yeafl, and the juice of four lemons, let them be in a tub a night and a day, then put it into your barrel, and keep it four days, ftirring it each day, then clay it up clofe for three weeks and bottle h. Put a lump of fugar in every bottle.140 319- Red Currant /Vine. Let your currants be the belt and ripeft you can get, pick and bruife them ; to every gallon of juice add fiv^ pints of water, put it to your berries in a Hand for two nights and a day, then drain your li- quor through a hair-fieve; to every gallon of liquor put two pounds of fugar, ftir it till it be well diflolv- ed, put it into a rundlet, and let it Hand four days, then draw it off clean, put in a pound and a half of fugar, Itirring it well, walh out the rundlet with fome of the liquor, fo tun it up clofe ; if you put two or three quarts of rafpr. bruifed among your berries, it makes it taffe the better. You may make white currant wine the fame way, only leave out the rafps. 320. Cherry Ji'ine. Take eight pounds of cherries and ftone them, four quarts of water, and two pounds of fugar, fkim and boil the water and fugar, then put in the cherries, let them have one boil, put them into an earthen pot till the next day, and let them to drain thro’ a ffeve, then put your wine into a fpigotpot, clay it up clofe, and look at it every two or three days after ; if it does not work, throw into it a handful of freffr cherries, fo let it Hand fix or eight days, then if it be clear bottle it up. 321. Cherry H ine another icay. Take tffc ripeft 3nd largeft Kcntifh cherries you can get, bruife them very well, (iones and ftalks all together, put them into,a tub having a tap to it, let them ftand fourteen days, then pull out the tap, let141 the juice run from them, and put it into a barrel, let it work three or four days, then ilop it up clofe three or four weeks and bottle it off.- 1 his wine will keep many years, ar.d be exceeding- ly rich. 322. Lemon Drops. Take a pound of loaf fugar, beat and fift it very fine, grate the rind of a lemon and put it to yoltr fu- gar ; take the whites of three eggs and whifk them to a froth, fqueeze in fome lemon to your tafte, beat them for half an hour, and drop them on white pa- per ; be fure you let the paper be very dry, arid fift a little fine fugar on the paper before you drop them. If you would have them yellow, take a pennyworth of gamboge, deep it in fome rofe-water, mix to it fome whites of eggs, and a little fugar, fo drop them, and bake them in a flow oven. 323- Gooseberry Jl lue another way. Take twelve quarts of good ripe goofeberries, damp them, and put to them twelve quarts of water, let them dand three days, dir them twice every day, fiiain them and put to your liquor fourteen pounds of fugai ; when it is diffolved drain it through a flannel bag, and put it into a barrel, with half an ounce of ifinglafs ; you mult cut the ilinglafs in pieces, and beat it whild it be foft, put to it a pint of your wine, and let it dand within the air of the fire; take the whites of four eggs and beat them very well to a froth, put in the ifinglals, and whilk the whites and it to- gether ; put them into the barrel, clay it clofe, and let it dand whild line, then bottle it for ufe.142 324. Red Currant JVine another way. Take five quarts of red currants full ripe, bruife them and take from them all the ftalks, to ever)- five quarts of fruit put a gallon of water ; when you have your quantity, drain them through a hair-fieve, and to every gallon of liquor put two pounds and three quar- ters of fugar; when your lugar is diffolved tun it in- to your calk, and let it ftand three weeks, then draw it off, and put to every gallon a quarter of a pound oS fugar ; wafh your barrel with cold water, tun it up, and let it (land a week; to every ten gallons put an ounce of ifinglafs, difi'olve it in fome of the wine, when it is diffolved put to it a quart of your wine, and beat them with a whifk, then put it into die calk, and flop it up clofe ; when it is fine, bottle it. If you would have it tafte of rafps, put to every gallon of wine a quart of rafps; if there be any grounds in the bottom of the calk when you drawoff your wine, draw them through a flannel bag, and then put it into your calk. 325. Mulberry H inc. Gather your mulberries when they are full ripe, beat them in a marble mortar, and to every quart of berries put a quart of water; when you put them into the tub, rub them very well with you. hands, and let them Hand all night, then drain them through a lieve; to every gallon of water put three pounds of fugar, and when the fugar is diflolved put it into your bar- rel ; take two pennyworth of ifinglafs and clip it in pieces, put to it a little wine, and let it (land all night within the air of tiie lire ; take the whites of i143 two or three eggs, beat them very well, then put them to the ifmglafs, mix them well together, and put them into your barrel, llirring it about when it is putin; you mud not let it be over full, nor bung it clofe up at fir ft ; fet it in a cool place, and bottle it when fine. 326. Blackberry [line. Take blackberries when they are full ripe, and fqueeze them the fame way as you did the mulberries. If you add a few mulberries, it will make your wine have a much better tafte. 327. Syrup of Mulberries. Take mulberries when they are full ripe, break them very well with your hand, and drop them torough a flannel bag; to every pound of juice take a pound of loaf fugar ; beat it final], put it to your J'lice, fo boil and (kirn it very well, 'you mult ikim it all the time it is boiling; when the (kirn has done riling it is enough ; when it is cold Bottle it and keen it for ufe. * You may make rafpberry fyrup the fame way. 328. Raspberry Brandy. 1 ake a gallon of the bell brandy you can get, and gather your rafpberries when they are full ripe, and put them whole into your brandy ; to every gallon of brandy take three quarts of rafps, let them Hand clofe covered for a month, then clear it from the ralps, and put to it a pound of loaf fugar; when your fugar is diftolved and a little fettled, bottle it and keepTt for144 • 32k). Black Cherry Brandy. Take a gallon of the bed brandy, and eight pounds of black cherries, done and put them into your bran- dy in an earthen pot ; bruil'e the (tones in a mortar, then put them into your brandy, and cover them up clofe, let them deep for a month or fix weeks, fo drain it and keep it for ufe. You may difl.il the in- gredients if you pleafe; 330. Ratafia Brandy. Take a quart of the bed brandy, and about a j 11 of apricot kernels, blanch and bruife them in a mor- tar, with a ipoonful or two of brandy, fo put them into a large bottle with your brandy ; put to it four ounces ot loaf fugar, let it dand till you thjnk it has got the tade of the kernels, then pour it out and put in a little more brandy if you pleafe. 331. Cores lip Syrup. Take a quartern of frefh picked cowflips, put to them a quart of boiling water, let them (land all night, and the next morning drain it from the cowflips ; to every pint of water put a pound of fine powder fugar, and boil it over a flow lire ; (kirn it all the time in the boiling whilit the ikirn has done rifiug ; then take it off, and when it is cold put it into a bottle, and keep it for ufe. 332. Lemon Brandy. Take a gallon of brandy, chip twenty-five lemons (let them deep twenty-four hours) the juice of fix- teen kmons, a quarter ot a pound of almonds blanch- ed and beat, drop it thro’ a jelly bag twice, and when145 it is fine bottle it; fiveeten it to yotirtafte with double refined fugar before you put it into your jelly-bag. You mull make it with the bed brandy you can get. 333. Cordial lVoter of Cowslips. Take two quarts of cowflip peeps, a flip of balm, two fprigs of rofemary, a flick of cinnamon, half an orange peel, half a lemon peel; lay all thefe to deep twelve hours in a pint of brandy, and a pint 6f ale ; then diftil them in a cold dill. 334. Milk Punch. Take two quarts of old milk, a quart of good brandy, the juice of fix lemons or oranges, whether you pleafe, and about fix ouiices of loaf fugar, mix them together, and drop them through a jelly-bag ; take off the peel of two of the lemons or oranges, and put it into your bag, when it is run off bottle it; it will keep as long as you pleafe. 335. Milk Punch another way. Take three jills of water, a jill of old milk, and a jill of brandy, fweeten it toyourtade; you muff not put any acid into this, for it will make it curdle. This is a cooling punch to drink in a morning. 336'. Punch another way. Take five pints of boiling water, and one quart of brandy, add to it the juice of four lemons or oranges, and about fix ounces of loaf fugar; when you have mixed it together drain it through a hair-lie«e or cloth, and put into your bowl the peel of a lemon or orange. N146 337. Acid for Punch. Take gooleberries at their full growth, pick and beat them in a marble mortar, and fqueezc them in a harden bag through a prefs, when you have done, run it through a flannel bag, and then bottle it in fmall bottles; put a little oil in every bottle, fo keep it for ufe. 338. To bottle Gooseberries. Gather your goofeberries when they are young, pick and bottle them, put in the cork loofe, fet them in a pan of water, with a little hay in the bottom, put them into the pan when the water is cold, let it itand on a flow fire, and mind when they are coddling; don’t let the pan boil, if you do it will break the bot- tles ; when they are cold fallen the cork, and put on a little rofin, fo keep them for ufe. 339- To bottle Damsins Take your damfins before they are full ripe, and gather them when the dew js ofl, pick off the ilalks, and put them into dry bottles; don’t fill your bot- tles over full, and cork them as dole as you would do ale, keep them in a cellar, and covet them over with fatrd. 340. To preserve Orange ( 'hips to put tn glasses. Take a Seville orange with a clear (kin, parr it very thin from the white, then take a pair of fciiTar* and clip it very thin, and boil it in water, drifting it two or three times in the boiling to take out the bit- ter ; then take half a pound of double-refined iugar.147 N 2 boil it and fkim it, then put in your orange, fo let it boil over a flow fire whillt your fyrup be thick, and your orange look clear, then put it into glafles, and cover it with papers dipped in brandy ; if you have a quantity of peel you muff have a larger quantity of fugar. 34-1. To preserve Oranges or Lemons. Take Seville oranges, the largett and roughed you can get clear of fpots, chip them very fine, and put them in water for two days, (hifting them twice or three times a day, then boil them whilfl they are foft; take and cut them in quarters, and take out the pippins with a penknife, fo weigh them, and to every pound of orange, take a pound and half of loaf fugar; put your fugar into a pan, and to every pound of fugar a pint of water, fet it over the fire to melt, and when it boils fkim it very well, then put in your oranges; if you would have any of them whole, make a hole at the top, and take out the meat with a tea fpoon, fet your oranges over a flow fire to boil, and keep them flamming all the while ; keep your oranges as much as you can with the fkin downwards; you may cover them with a delf plate, to bear them down in the boiling; let them boil for three quarters of an hour, then put them into a pot or bafon, and let them Hand two days covered, then boil them again, whilfl they look clear, and the fyrup be thick, fo put them into a pot, and lie clofe over them a pa- per dipped in brandy, and tie a double paper at the top, iet them in a cold place, and keep them for ufe. If you would have your oranges that are whole to look pale and clear, to put in glafles, you mull148 make a fyrup of pippin jelly ; then take ten or a dozen pippins, as they are of bignefs, pare and flice -them, and boil them in as much water as will cover them till they be thoroughly tender, fo drain your water from the pippins through a hair-fieve, then drain it through a flannel bag; and to every pint of jelly take a pound of double-refined fugar, fet it over'a fire to boil, and fkim it, let it boil whild it be thick, then put it into a pot and cover it, but they will keep bed ii they he put every one in different pots. 342. To make Jelljj of Currants. Take a quartern of the larged and bed currants you can get, drip them from the dalks and put them it! a pot, bop them clofe up, and boil them in a pot oi water over thedire, till they be thoroughly coddled auu lu-gm to look pale, then put them in a clean hair- o drain, and run the liquor through a dannel ;n every pint of liquor put in a pound of dou- h lined fugar; you mud beat the fugar fine, and put it in by degrees, fet it over the fire, and boil it whild any fkim will rife, then put it into glafies for ule; the next day clip a paper round, and dip it in brandy to lay on your jelly ; if vou would have your jelly a light red, put in half a quartern of white cur- rants, and in my opinion it looks much better. 343. To j; res err e Apricots. Take apricots before they are full ripe, done and pare them ; then weigh them., and to every pound of apricots take a pound of double-refined fugar, beat it very fin all, lie one part of your fugar under ibe apri- cots, and the other part at the top, let them band all night, the next day put them in a dew-pan or brafsN 3 up pan ; don’t do over many at once in your pan, for fear of breaking, let them boil over a flow fire, fkim them very well, and turn them two or three times in the boiling ; you mult but about half do them at the tirft, and let them itand whilft they be cool, then let them boil whilfl your apricots look clear, and the fy- rup thick, put them into your pots or glafles, when they are cold cover them with a paper dipped in bran- dy, then tie another paper clofe over your pot to keep out the air. 344. To make Marmalade of Apricots. Take what quantity of apricots you fhall think pro- per, (lone them and put them immediately into a fkillet of boiling water, keep them under water on the fire till they be foft then take them out of the water and wipe them with a cloth, weigh your fugar with your apricots, weight for weight, then diffolve your fugar in water, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your apricots, being a little bruifed, let them boil but a quarter of an hour, then glafs them up. 345. To know when Sugar is at Candy Height. Take fotne fugar and clarify it, keep it boiling till it becomes thick, then ilir it with a (tick from you, and when it is at candy height it will fly from your flick like flakes of fnow, or feathers flying in the air, and till it comes to that height it will not fly, then you may ufe it as you pleafe.150 346. To make Marmalade of Quinces white. Take your quinces and coddle them as you do ap- ples, when they are foft pare them and cut them in pieces, as if you would cut them for apple pies, then put your cores, parings, and the watte of your quinces in fome w'ater, and boil them fall for fear of turning red, until it be a tlrong jejly ; when you fee the jelly pretty ftrong (train it, and be fure you boil them uncovered ; add as much fugar as the weight of your quinces into your jelly, till it be boiled to a height, then put in your coddled quinces, and boil them uncovered till they be enough, and fet them near the fire to harden. 347. Quiddany (f Red Currantberries.< Put your berries into a pot, with a fpoonful or two of water, cover it clofe, and boil them in lome water, vehen you think they are enough drain them, and put to every pint of juice a pound of loaf fugar, boil it up jelly height, and put them into glafies for oie. 348. To preserve Gooseberries. To a pound of Honed goofcberries put a pound and a quarter of fine fugar, wet the fug3r with the goofe- bcrry jelly ; take a quart of goofcberries, and two or three fpoonfuls of water, boil them very quick, let your fugar be melted, and then put in yourgoofe- berries j boil them till clear, which will be very quickly.151 349- To make little Almond Cakes. Take a pound of fugar and eight eggs, beat them well an hour, then put them into a pound of flour, beat'them together, blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds, and beat them with rofe-water to keep them from oiling, mix all together, butter your tins, and bake them half an hour. Half an hour is rather too long for them to Hand in the oven, 350. To preserve Red Gooseberries. Take a pound of iixpenny fugar, and a little juice of currants, put to it a pound and a half of goofeber- ries, and let them boil quick a quarter of an hour ; but if they be for jam they mull boil better than half an hour. They are very proper for tarts, or to eat as fweet- meats. 351. To bottle Berries another way. Gather your berries when they are full grown, pick and bottle them, tie a paper over them, prick it with a pin, and fet it in the oven after you have drawn ; when they are coddled take them out, and when they are cold cork them up ; rofin the cork over, and keep them for ufe. 352. To keep Barberries for Tarts all the Tear. Take barberries when they arc full ripe, and pick tuem from the Hulk, put them into dry bottles, cork them up very elofe, and keep them for ufe.—You may do cranberries the fame way.152 353. To preserve Barberries for Tarts. Take barberries when full ripe, ilrip them, take t their weight in fugar, and as much water as will wet your fugar, give it a boil and Ikim it; then pin in your berries, let them boil whild they look clear and i. your fyrup thick, fo put them into a pot, and when they are cold cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. % 354. To preserve Daws ins. Take damfins before they are full ripe, and prick. If them, take their weight in fugar, and as much wa— 5 - ter as will wet your lugar, give it a boil and lkim ic,, then put in your damlins, let them have one feald,, and fet them by whillt cold, then feald them again,, and continue fealding them twice a day whillt your fyrup looks thick, and the damfins clear ; you mull never let them boil; do them in a brafs pan, and do not take them out in the doing ; when they are enough put them into a pot, and cover them up with a paper dipped in brandy. 355. How to keep Damsinsfor Tarts. Take damfins before they are full ripe, to every quart of damfins put a pound ot powder lugar, put them into a pretty broad pot, a layer of lugar and a layer of damfins, tie them dole up, fet them in a flow oven, and let them have a heat every day uhilil the fyrup be thick, and the damlins enough ; render a little Ihecp fuet and porn over them, fo keep them for ufe.336'. To keep Damsins another way. Take damfius before they be quite ripe, pick off the ftalks, and put them into dry bottles ; cork them as you would do ale, and keep them in a cool place for ufe. 357. To make Mango of Codlins. Take codlins when they are at their full growth, and of the greeneft fort, take a little out of the end with the llalk, and then take out the core ; lie them in a ttrong fait and water, let them lie ten days or more, and fill them with the fame ingredients as you do other mango, only feald them oftener. 358. To pickle Currant-berries. Take currants either red or white before they are thoroughly ripe, you mull not take them from the ftalk, make a pickle of fait and water and a little vinegar, fo keep them for ufe. They are proper for garnifiiing. 3.59. To keep Barberries instead of pre- serving. I ake barberries and lie them in a pot, a layer of barberries and a layer of fugar, pick the feeds out before for garnifiiing fweetmeats, if for fauces put fomc vinegar to them. 360. To keep Asparagus or Green Peas a year. 1 ake afparagus or green peas, green them as you do cucumbers, and feald them as you do other pic-154 kies with fait and water; let it be always new pickle, and when you would ufe them boil them in frefh water. 361. To make Whitt Paste of Pippins. Take fome pippins, pare and cut them in halves, and take out the cores, then boil them very tender in fair water, and ftrain them through a hair-fteve, then clarify two pounds of ftrgar with two whites of eggs, and boil it to a candy height, put two pounds and a half of the pulp of your pippins into it, let it (land over a flow fire drying, keeping it flirring till it comes clear from the bottom of your pan, then lie them upon plates or boards to dry. 362. Green Paste of Pippins. Take green pippins, put them into a pot and cover them, let them Hand infufing over a flow fire, five or fix hours to draw out the rednefs of fappinefs from them, and then ftrain them through a hair-fieve ; take two pounds of fugar, boil it to a candy height, put to it two pounds of the pulp of your pippins, keep it flirring oyer the fire till it comes clean from the bot- tom of your pan, then lay it on plates or boards, and ' fet it on an oven or ftove to dry. 363. Reel Paste 0) Pippins. Take two pounds of fugar, clarify it, then take roflet and temper it very well with fair water, put it into your fyrup, let it boil till your fyrup is pretty red coloured with it, then 11 rain your fyrup through a fine cloth, and boil it till it be at candy height, then put to it two pounds and a half of the pulp of pip- pins, keeping it flirring over the fire till it comes155 clean from the bottom of the pan, then lie it on plates or boards, fo dry them. 364. To preserve Fruit green. Take your fruit when they are green, and fome fair water, fet it on the fire, and when it is hot put in the apples, cover them clofe, but they mull not boil, fo let them {land till they be foft, and there will be a thin {kin on them, peel it off, and fet them to cool, then put them in again, let them boil till they be very green, and keep them as whole as you can ; when you think them ready to take up, make your fyrup tor them ; take their weight in fugar, and when your fyrup is ready put the apples into it, and boil them very well in it; they will keep all the year near lome fire.—You may do green plums or other fruit. 30j. To make Orange Marmalade. ■ 1 ake three or four Seville oranges, grate them, /take out the meat, and boil the rinds whilft they are teuuer ; fiiift them three or four times in the boiling to take out the bitter, and beat them very fine in a marble inoitar; to the weight of your pulp take a pound ot loaf fugar, and to a pound of lugar you may add a pint of water, boil and fkim it before you put in your oranges, let it boil half an hour very tjuick, then put in your meat, and to a pint take a pound aim a half of fugar, let it boil quick half an hour, (fir it all the time, and when it is boiled to a jeily, put it into pots or glalles; cover it with a pa- per dipped in brandy.156 366. Quinces white, another way. Coddle your quinces, cut them in fmall pieces, and to a pound of quinces take three quarters of a pound of fugar, boil it to a candy height, having ready a quarter of a pint of quince liquor boiled and llcimmed, put the quinces and liquor to your fugar, boil them till it looks clear, which will be very quickly, then clofe your quince, and w hen cold cover it with jelly of pippins to keep the colour. 36'7. Gooseberry 17negar. To every gallon of water take fix pounds of ripe gooleberries, bruife them, and pour the water boil- ing hot upon your berries, cover it clofe, and fet it in a warm place to ferment, till all the berries come to the top, then draw it off, and to every gallon of liquor put a pound and a half of fugar, then tun it into a calk, fet it in a warm place, and in fix mouths it will be fit for ufe. 368. Gooseberry / inegar another way. Take three pounds of green goofeberries to a quart of water, and a pound of fugar, (lamp your berries and throw them into your water as you (lamp them, it will make them (tram the better; when it is drain- ed put in your fugar, beat it well with a difli for half an hour, then drain it through a finer drainer into your veffel. leaving it lome room to work, and when it is clear bottle it ; your berries mud be clean picked before you ufe them, and let them be at their full growth when you ufe them, rather changing colour.369- Jam of Cherries. Take ten pounds of cherries, ftone and boil them till the juice be wafted, then add to it three pounds of lugar, and give it three or four good boils, then put it into your pots. 370. To preserve Cherries. To a pound of cherries take a pound of fugar fine- ly fifted, with part of which ftrew the bottom of your pan, having ftoned the cherries, lay a layer .of cher- ries and a layer of fugar, ftrewing the fugar very well over all, boil them over a quick fire a good while, keeping them clean fkimined till they look clear, and the fyrup is thick and both of one colour ; when you think them half done, take them off the fire for an hour, after which fet them on again, and to every pound of fruit put in a quarter of a pint of the juice of cherries and red currants, fo boil them till enough, and the fyrup is jellied, then put them in a pot, and keep them clofe from the air. 371. 10 preserve Cherries for drying. Take two pounds of cherries and ftone them, put to them a pound of fugar, and as much water as will wet the fugar, then fet them on the fire, let them boil till they look clear, take them ofT the fire, and let them ftand awhile in the fyrup, and then take them up and lay them on paper to dry. 3 iil. To preserve Fruit green all the i ear. Gather your fruit when they are three parts ripe, on a vir\ dr y day, when the fun lhines on them, then O158 take earthen pots and put them in, cover the pots with cork, or bung them that no air can get into them, dig. a place in the earth a yard deep, fet the pots therein and cover them with the earth very clofe, and keep them for ufe. When you take any out, cover them up again, as at the firft. 373. I low to keep Kidney-Beans all JI inter. Take kidney-beans when they are young, leave on both the ends, lay a layer of fait at the bottom of your pot, and then a layer of beans, and fo on till your pot be full, cover them clofe at the top that they get no air, and fet them in a cool place ; before you boil them lay them in water all night, let your water boil when you put them in (without fait) and put into it a lump of butter about the bignefs of a walnut. 374. To candy Angelica. Take angelica when it is young and tender, take off all the leaves from the (talks, boil it in the pan with fome of the leaves under, and fome at the top, till it be fo tender that you can peel of! all the fkin, then put it into fome water again, cover it over with fome of the leaves, let it fimmtr over a llow fire till it be green, when it is green drain the water from it, and then weigh it; to a pound of angelica take a pound of loaf-fugar, put a pint of water to every pound of fugar, boil and Ikim it, and then put in your angelica ; it will take a great deal of boiling in the fugar, the longer you boil it the greener it will be,,159 boil it whilft your fugar be candy-height, you may know when it is candy-height by the fide of your pan ; if you would have it nice and white, you mud have a pound of fugar boiled candy-height in a cop- per dilh or ftew-pan, fet it over a chafing-difh, and put into it your angelica, let it have a boil and it will candy as you take it out. 3?5. To dry Pears. Take half a peck of good baking pears (or as many as you pleafe) pare and put them in a pot, and to a peck of pears put in two pounds of fugar ; you mud put in no water, but lie the parings on the top of your pears, tie them up clofe, and let them in a, brown bread oven ; when they are baked lay them in a dripping-pan, and flat them a little in your pan ; fet them in a flow oven, and turn them every day whilil they be thoroughly dry ; fo keep them for ufe. You may dry pippins the fame way, only as you turn them grate over them a little fugar. 376* To preserve Currants in bunches. Boil your fugar to the fourth degree of boiling, tie your currants up in bunches, then place them in order in the fugar, and give them feveral covered boilings, (kirn them quick, and let them not have above two or three feethings, then Ikim them &gain, and fet them into the (love in the preferving pan, the next day drain them, and drefs them in bunches, drew them with fugar, and dry them in a dove or in the fun. O 2160 3?7. To dry Apricots. To a pound of apricots put three quarters of a pound of fugar, pare and done them, to a layer of fruit lie a layer of fugar, let them Hand till the next day, then boil them again till they be clear, when cold take them out of the fyrup, and lay them upon glades or china, and fift them over with double re- fined fugar, fo fet them on a dove to dry, next day if they be dry enough turn them, and fift the other fide with fugar; let the dones be broke and the ker- nels blanched, and give them a boil in the fyrup, then put them into the apricots ; you mud not do too many at a time, for fear of breaking them in the fy- rup ; do a great many, and the more you do in it the better they will tade. 378. To make Jumballs another nay. Take a pound of dry meal, a pound of fugar fine- ly beat, mix them together; then take the yolks of five or fix eggs, as much thick cream as will make it up to a pade, and fome coriander feeds ; roll them and lay them on tins, prick and bake them in a quick oven ; before you fet them in the oven wet them with a little rofe-water and double-refined fugar, and it will ice them. 379- To preserve Oranges zrhole. Take what quantity of oranges you have a mind to preferve, chip off the rind, the thinner the better, put them into water twenty-four hours, in that time drift them in the water (to take off the bitter) three times ; you mull drift them with boiling water, cold water makes them hard ; put double the weight of161 fugar for oranges, diffolve your fugar in water, fkim it, and clarify it with the white of an egg ; before you put in your oranges, boil them in fyrup three or four times, three or four days betwixt each time ; you mull take out the inmeat of the oranges very clean, for fear of mudding the fyrup. 380. To make Jam of Damsins. Take damfins when they are ripe, and to two pounds of damfins take a pound of fugar, put your fugar into a pan with a jill of water, when you have boiled it put in your damlins, let them boil pretty quick, Heim them all the time they are boiling, when your fyrup looks thick they are enough, put them into your pots, and when they are cold cover them with a paper dipped in brandy, tie them up clofe, and keep them lor ufe. 381. Clear Cakes of Gooseberries. Take a pint of jelly, a pound and a quarter of fu- gar, make your jelly with three or four fpoonfuls of water, and put your fugar and jelly together, fet it over the fire to heat, but do not let it boil, then put it into the cake pots, and fet it in a (low oven till iced over. 382. Bullies Cheesy Take half a peck or a quartern of bullies, whether you pleafe, pick off the italks, put them in a pot, and Hop them up very clofe, fet them in a pot of water to boil for two hours, and be lure your pot be full of water, and boil them till they be enough, then put them in a hair lieve to drain the liquor from the162 bullies ; and to every quart of liquor put a pound and a quarter of fugar, boil it over a flow fire, keeping it ltirring all the time. You may know when it is boiled high enough by the parting from the pan, put it into pots and cover it with papers dipped in bran- dy, fo tie it up clofe and keep it for ufe. 383. Jam of Bullies. Take the bullies that remained in the fieve, to every quart of it take a pound of fugar, and put it to your jam, boil it over a flow fire, put it in pots, and keep it for ufe. 384. Syrup of Gillifloicers. Take five pints of dipt gilliflowers, and put to them two pints of boiling water, then put them in an earthen pot to infufe a night and a da), take a •ftrainer and ftrain them out ; to a quart of your li- quor put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, boil it over a flow fire, and fkim it whilft any fkim nfes ; io when it is cold bottle it for ufe. 383. To pickle Gillijlozccrs. Take clove gilliflowers, when they are at full growth, clip them and put them into a pot, put them pretty fad down, and put to them fome white wine vinegar, as much as will cover them ; fweeten them with fine powder fugar, or common loaf; when you put in your fugar flir them up that your fugar may go down to the bottom; they mult ic very fweet; let them Hand two or three days, arid then put in a little more vinegar; fo tic them up tor ufe.* 163 386. To pickle Cucumbers sliced. Pare thirty large cucumbers, flice them into a pew- ter diih, take fix onions, flice and drew on them fome fait, fo cover them and let them Hand to drain twenty-four hours ; make your pickle of white wine vinegar, nutmeg, pepper, cloves and mace, boil tlie fpices in the pickle, drain the liquor clean from the cucumbers, put them into a deep pot, pour the li- quor upon them boiling hot, and cover them very clofe ; when they are cold drain the liquor from them, give it another boil; and when it is cold pour it on them again ; fo keep them for ufe. 387- To make Cupid Hedge-Hogs. Take a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds, and half a pound of loaf fugar, put it into a pan with as much water as will juft wet it, let it boil whilft it be fo thick as will ftick to your almonds, then put in your almonds and let them boil in it; have ready a quarter of a pound of fmall coloured comfits ; take your almonds out of the fyrup one by one, and turn th cm round whilft they be covered over, fo lie them • on a pewter difh as you do them, and fet them before the fire, whilft you have done them all. They are pretty to put in glaffcs, or to fet in a dtirert. S«8. Almond Hedge-Hogs. Take half a pound of the heft almonds, and blanch them, beat them with two or three fpoonfuls of rofe- water in a marble mortar, very fmall, then take fix cggs (k'a>ve out two of the whites) beat your es^gs very well, take half a pound of loaf fugar beaten,164 and four ounces of clarified butter, mix them all well together, put them into a pan, fet them over the fire, and keep it llirring whilit it be fliff, then put it into a china difh, and when it is cold make it up in: : the fhape of an hedge-hog, put currants for eyes, and a bit of candied orange for tongue; you may leave out part of the almonds unbeaten ; take them and! fplit them in two, then cut them in long bits to flick into your hedge-hog all over, then take two pints oft ; cream cuftard to pour over your hedge-hog, accord- ing to the bignefs of your di(h ; lie round your difh edge dices of candied or preferred orange, which you i have, fo ferve it up. 589- To pot Salmon to keep half a pear. Take a fide of frefh falmon, take out the bone, cut : off the head and fcale it ; you mull not walh, but i v/ipe it with a dry cloth ; cut it in three pieces, fea- fon it with mace, pepper, fait and nutmeg, put it into a flat pot with the fkin fide downward, lie over it a pound of butter, tie a paper over it, and fend it to the oven, about an hour and a half will bake it;; if you have more falmon in your pot than three pieces | it will take more baking, and you mull put in nibre t butter; when it is baked take it out of your pot,, and lie it on a fifh-plate to drain, and take of! the i /kin, fo feafon it over again, for if it be not well fea- foiled it will not keep ; put it into your pot piece by piece: it will keep bell in little pots; when you put it into your pots, pieis it well down with the baek ot , your hand, arid when it is cold cover it with clarified butter, and fet it in a cool place ; io keep it for ule.violets put a pint of water, when the water is j 11 it, 165 S90. To wake a Codlin Pie. (Take codlins before they are over old, hang them over a flow lire to coddle, when they are foft peel off the Ikin, fo put them into the fame water, again,,then cover them up with vine leaves, and let them hang over the fire whilll they be green ; be fure you don’t let them boil ; lay them whole in the difh, and bake them in puff pafte, but leave no palte in the bottom of the difh ; put to them a little fined lemon-peel, a fpoonfui of verjuice or juice of lemon, and as much fugar as you think proper, according to the largenefs of your pie. 591- A Cauliflower Pudding. Boil the flowers in milk, take the tops and lay them in a difh, then take three jills of cream, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of two, feafon it with nut- meg, cinnamon, mace, lugar, fack, or orange-flow- er water, beat all well together, then pour it over the cauliflower, put it into the oven, bake it as you would a cuftard, and grate lugar over it when it comes from the oven. Take fugar, fack and butter for fauce. 3^2. Stock for Hartshorn .Jelly. Take five or fix ounces ol hartlhorn, put it into a gallon of water, hang it over a flow lire, cover it dofe, and let it boil three or four hours, fo ft rain it ; make it the day before you ufe it, and then you may have it ready for your jellies. 393. Syrup of / ’wlcts. 1 ake violets and pick them ; to every pound ofready to boil put it to your violets, and ftir them well together, let them infufe twenty-four hours and: firain them ; to every pound of fyrtip, take almoft two pounds of fugar, beat the fugar very well and . put it into your fyrup,. ffir it that the fugar may dif- folve, let it Hand a day or two, ftirring it two or three times, then fet it on the fire, let it be but warm and it will be thick enough. You may make your fyrup either of violets or’ gilliflowers, only take the weight of fugar, let it’ e Hand on the lire till it be very hot, and the fyrup of: : violets mult be only warm. 394. lo pickle Cockles. Take cockles at a full moon and wafh them, then put them into a pan, and cover them with a wet ( cloth, when they are enough put them into a Hone | bowl, take them out of the {hells andwalh them veryr well in their own pickle; let the pickle fettle every | time you vvalh them, then clear it off; when you have cleaned them, put the pickle into a pan with a fpoonful or two of white wine and a little white wine I vinegar to your talte, put in a little Jamaica and whole pepper, boil it very well in the pickle, then j put in your cockles, let them have a boil and Ikim > them, when they are cold put them in a bottle with a little oil over them, fet them in a cool place and ! keep them for ufe. 3<)3. I'o preserve Quinces ichole ‘or in quarters. Take the largcft quinces when they are at full growth, pare them and throw them into water, when you have pared them cut them in quarters, and tak^167 out the cores ; if you would have any whole you mud take out the cores with a fcope; fave all the cores j and paring?, and put them in a pot or pan to coddle J your quinces in, with as much water as will cover , them, fo put in your quinces in the middle of your parings into the pan (be fure you cover them clofe up at the top) fo let them hang over a flow fire wliillt they be thoroughly tender, then take them out and weigh them ; to every pound of quince take a pound of loaf fugar, and to every pound of fugar take a pint, of the fame water you coddled your quinces in. fet your water and fugar over the fire, boil it and fkim it, then put in your quinces, and cover it clofe up, fet it over a flow fire, and let it boil whilll your quinces be red and the fyrup thick, then put them in pots for ufe, dipping a paper in brandy to lie over them. 396. To pickle Shrimps. Take the larged fhrimps you can get, pick them out of the fhells, boil them in a jill of water, or as much water as will cover them, according'as you have a quantity of fhrimps, drain them through a hair-fieve, then put to the liquor a little lpice, mace, cloves, whole pepper, white wine, white wine vinegar, and a little fait to your talle ; boil them very well toge- ther; when it is cold put in your fhrimps, and they 1 are fit for ufe. 397. To pickle Muscles. Wnfh your mufcles, put them into a pan as you do your cockles, pick them out of the fhells, and wafh them in the liquor ; be fure you take off the beards, fo boil them in the liquor with fpices, as you168 do your cockles, only put to them a little more vine- gar than you do to cockles. 398. To pickle JValnuts green. Gather walnuts when they are fo young that you can run a pin through them, pare them and put them in water, and let them lie four or five days, ftirring it twice a day to take out the bitter, then put them in llrong fait and water, let them lie a week or ten days, ftirring it once or twice a day, then put them t. in frelh fait and water, arid hang them over a fire, put i to them a little alum, and cover them up clofe with vine leaves, let them hang over a How fire whilft they be green, but be fare do not let them boil; when they are green put them into a lieve to drain the wa- ter from them. 399. To make Pickle for them. Take a little good alegar, put to it a little long; pepper and Jamaica pepper, a few bay leaves, a little horie-radifli, a handful or two of muilard feed, a lit- tle fait and a little rocambole if you have any, if not a few (halots ; boil them all together in the alegar, which put to your walnuts and let it fland three or four days, giving them a feald once a day, then tie them up for i^e.—A fpoonful of this pickle is good for filh-fauce, or a call’s head halh. 400. To pickle II'alnuts black. Gather walnuts when they are fo tender that you ^ can run a pin through them, prick them all with a pm very well, lie them in fie 111 water, and let them lie for a week, drifting them once a day ; make toi them a llrong fait and" water, and let them lie wlalii-169 they be yellow, ftirring them once a day, then take them out of the fait and water, and make a frefh fait and water and boil it, put it on the top of your waU nuts, and let your pot fland in the corner end, fcald them once or twice a day whilil they be black. You may make the fame pickle for thofe as you did for the green ones. 401. To pickle Oysters. Take the larged oylters you can get, pick them whole out of the (hell, and take off the beards, wafh them very well in their own pickle, fo let the pickle fettle, and clear it off, put it inLo a ltew-pan, put to it two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, and a little white wine vinegar ; do not put in any water, for if there be not pickle enough of their own, get a little cockle pickle and put to it, a little Jamaica pepper, white pepper and mace, boil and (kirn them very well; you mult (kirn it before you put in your fpices, then put in youroyfters, and let them have a boil in the pickle, when they are cold put them into a large bottle, with a little oil on the top, fet them in a cool place and keep them for ufe. 402. To pickle Cucumbers. Take cucumbers and put them in a (trong fait and water, let them lie whillt they be very yellow, then fcald them in the fame fait and water they lay in, fet them on the fire, and fcald them once a day whillt they are green ; take the belt alegar you can get, put to it a little Jamaica pepper and black pepp.er, fome horfc-radilh in dices, a few bay leaves, and a little dill and fait, fo fcald your cucumbers twics or thrice in this pickle, then put them up for yft. V170 . 403. To pickle Onions. Take thefmallert onions you can get, peel and put them into a large quantity of fair water, let them lie two days and fhift them twice a day ; then drain them from the water, take a little dilfilled vinegar, put to them two or three blades of mace, and a little white pepper and fait, boil it, and pour it into your onions, let them (land three days, fcalding them every day, fo put them into little glaffes, and tie a bladder over them ; they are very good done with alegar, for common ufe, only put in Jamaica pepper inllead of mace. 404- To pickle Elder Buds. Take elder buds when they are the bignets oi finall walnuts, lie them in a ft rang fait and water for ten days, and then fcald them in frefh fait and water, put in a lump of alum ; let them Hand in the corner end clofe covered up, and fcalded on'cc a day whillt green. You may do raaifli pods or brcwn buds the fame way. 405. To make the Pickle. Take a little alegar or white wine vinegar, and pfl!t to it two or three blades of mace, with a little whole pepper and Jamaica pepper, a iew bay leaves and fait, put to your buds, and icahl them two or three times. 40(S. To pickle Mushrooms Take mnftirooms when frefh gathered, iort the large ones from- the buttons,' cut off the fta'.kr. wafh>71 them in water with a flannel, have a pan of water ready on the fire to boil them in, for the lefs they lie in the water the better; let them have two or three boils over the fire, then put them into a fieve, and when you have drained the water from them put them into a pot, throw over them a handful of I alt, flop them up dole with a cloth, and let them Hand two or three hours on the hot hearth or range end, giving your pot a fhake now and then ; then drain the pickle from them, and lie them on a dry cloth for an hour or two, fo put them into as much diddled vinegar as will cover them, let them lie a week or ten days, then take them out, and put them in dry bottles ; put to them a little white pepper, fait and ginger diced, fill them up with diHilled vinegar, put over them a little fweet oil, and cork them up clofe ; if your vinegar be good they will keep two nr three years; I know it by experience. You mult be fure not to fill your bottles above three parts full, if you do they-will not keep. 40?. To pickle Mushrooms another way. Take mufhrooms and wadi them with a flannel, throw them into water as you wadi them, only pick the fmall from the large, put them into a pot, throw over them a little fait, Itop up your pot clofe with a cloth, boil them in a pot of water as you do currants when you make a jelly, give them a diake now and then ; you may guefs when they are enough by the quantity of liquor that comes from them ; when you think they are enough (train from them the liquor, put in a little white wine vinegar, and boil it in a lit- tle mace, white pepper, Jamaica pepper, and dicedginger ; when it is cold put it to the mufhrooms, bot- tle them and keep them for ufe. They will keep this way very well, and have more of the talte of mufhrooms, but they will not be alto- gether fo white. 408. To pickle Potatoe Crabs. Gather your crabs when they are young, and about the bignefs of a large cherry, lie them in a ftrong fait and water as you do other pickles, let them ftarid for a week or ten days, then fcald them in the fame wa- ter they lie in twice a day whillt green ; make the fame pickle for them as you do for cucumbers ; be fure you fcald them twice or thrice in the pickle, aud they will keep the better. 409- To pickle large Buttons. Take your buttons, clean them and cut them in three or four pieces, put them into a large fauce-pan to flew in their own liquor, put to them a little Ja- maica and whole pepper, a blade or two of mace, and a little fait, cover it up, let it flew over a flow fire whillt you think they are enough, then flrain from them their liquor, and put to it a little white wine vinegar or alegar, which you pleafe, give it a boil to- gether, and when it is cold put it to your mufhrooms, and keep them for ufe. You may pickle flaps the fame way. 410. To wake Catchup. Take large mufhrooms when they are frcfh gather- ed, cut off the dirty ends, break them fmail with your hands, put them in a ltone bowl with a handful dr two of fait, and let them fland all night; if you173 don’t get mulhrooms enough at once, with a little fait they will keep a day or two wliild you get more, fo put them in a dew-pot, and fet them in an oven with houfehold bread ; when they are enough drain from them the liquor, and let >it Hand to fettle, then boil it with a little mace, Jamaica and whole black pepper, two or three lhalots, boil it over a flow fire for an hour, when it is boiled let it ftand to fettle, and when it is cold bottle it ; if you boil it well it will keep a year or two ; you mult put in fpices according to the quantity of your catchup ; you mull not walh them, nor put to them any water. 411. Mango of Cucumbers or small Melons. Gather cucumbers when they are green, cut a bit off the end and take out all the meat y lie them in a ftrong fait and water, let them lie for a week or ten days whillt they be yellow, then feald them in the fame fait and water they lie in, whillt green, then drain from them the water ; take a little mudard- feed, a little horfe-radilh, fume (craped and fome fhred fine, a handful of lhalots, a clove or two of garlick if you like the talte, and a little (fired mace ; take fix or eight cucumbers (fired fine, mix them amonglt the red of the ingredients, then fill your melons or cucumbers with the meat, and put in the bits at the ends, tie them on with a firing, l’o take as much alegar or white wine vinegar as will well co- ver them, and put into it a little jamaica and whole pepper, a little hprfe-radilh and a handful or two of mudiiid feed, then boil it, and pour it upon your mango; let it Hand in the corner end two or tluee r 3174 days, feald than once a dav, and then tie them up for ufe. 412. To pickle Gherkins. Take gherkins of the firft growth, pick them clean, put them in a ftrong fait and water, let them lie a week or ten days whilft they be thoroughly yellow, then feald them in the fame fait and water they lie in, feald them once a day, and let them lie whilft they are green, then fet them in the corner end clofe covered. 413. To make Pickle for your Cucumbers. Take a little alegar, (the quantity mull be equal to the quantity of your cucumbers, and fo mult your feafoning) a little pepper, a little Jamaica and long pepper, two or three lhalots, and a little horfe-raoilh feraped oi diced, a little fait and a bit of alum ; boil them all together, and feald your cucumbers two or three times with your pickle, fo tie them up for ufe. 4 14. To pickle Cauliflower white. Take the whiteft cauliflower you can get, break it in pieces the bignefs of a mufliroom ; take as much diftilled vinegar as will cover it, and put to it a little whjte pepper, two or three blades of mace, and a lit- tle fait, then boil it and pour it on your cauliflower three times, let it be cold, then put it into your glades or pots, and wet a bladder to tie over it to keep out the air. You may do white cabbage the fame way.175 415. To pickle Reel Cabbage. Take a red cabbage, chufe it a .purple red, for a light red never proves a good colour ; lb take your cabbage and Hired it in very thin fliees, feafon it with pepper and fait very thin, let-it lie all night upon a broad tin, or a dripping-pan ; take a little alegar, put to it a little Jamaica pepper, and two or three races of ginger, boil them together, and when it is .cold pour it upon your cabbage, and in two or three : days time it will be lit for ufe. You may throw a little cauliflower among it, and it will turn red. 416'. To pickle Caulijlowet another way. Take the cauliflower and break it in pieces the big- nefs of a mufhroom, but leave on a fliort llalk with the head ; take fome white wine vinegar, into a quart of vinegar put fixpenny worth of cochineal beat well, alfo a little Jamaica and whole pepper, and a little fait, boil them in vinegar, pour it over the cauliflower hot, and let it Hand two or three days clofe covered up ; you may feald it once in three days whilft it be red, when it is red, take it out of pickle, and wafli the cochineal off in the pickle, lb drain it through a hair-fieve, and let it Hand a little to fettle, then put it to your cauliflower again, and tie it up for ufe ; the longer it lies in the pickle the red- der it will be. 417- To pickle If a/nuts white. 1 akc walnuts when they are at full growth and can thrufl a pin through them, the large If fort you can get, pare them, and cut a bit oil one end whilll•176 you fee the white, fo you muft pare off all the green (if you cut thro’ the white to the kernel they will be fpotted) and put them in water as you pare them ; you muft boil them in fait and water as you do mufh- * rooms, they will take no more boiling than a mufti- robm ; when they are boiled lay them on a dry cloth to drain out the water, then put them into a pot, and put to them as much diftilled vinegar as will cover them, let them lie two or three days; then ^ take a little more vinegar, put to it a few blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, boil them toge- ther, when it is cold take the walnuts out of the other pickle and put them into that, let them lie two or three days, pour it from them, give it another boil and fkim it, when it is cold put to it your wal- nuts again, put them into a bottle, and put over them a little fweet oil, cork them up and fet them in a cool place ; if your vinegar be good they will keep as long as the mulhrooms. 418. To pickle Burberries. Take barberries when fulfripe, put them into a pot, boil a ftrong fait and water, then pour it on them boiling hot. « O 41.9. To woke Barley-Sugar. Eoil bailey in water, 11 rain it through a hair-fieve,, then put tiic dccodtion into clarified fugar brought to a candy-height, or the lull degree of boiling, then take it off the fire, and let the boiling fettle, then , pour it upon a marble Hone 'libbed with the oil of olives, when it cools and begins to grow baid, cut it in pieces, and tub it into lengths a» you plcoie.fait and water fix weeks, then take them out, put 1 420. To pickle Pur slain. Take the thickeft llalks of purflain, lay them iri them into boiling water, and cover them well; let them hang over a flow fire till they be very green* when they are cold put them into a pot, and cover them well with beer vinegar, and keep them covered clofe. 421. To make Punch another way. Take a quart or two of Iherbet before you put in your brandy, and the whites of four or five eggs, beat them very well, and fet it over the fire, let it have a boil, then put it into a jelly bag, fo mix the reft of your acid and brandy together (the quantity you defign to make) heat it and run it all through your jelly bag, change it in the running off vvhilft it looks fine ; let the peel of one or two lemons lie in the bag ; you may make it the day before you ufe it, and bottle it. 422. New College Puddings. Grate an old penny loaf, put to it a like quantity of fuel Aired, a nutmeg grated, a little fait and fome currants, then beat fome eggs in a little lack and fu- gar, mix all together, and knead it as ftiff as for man- chet, and make it up in the form and fize of a turkey’s egg, but a little flatter ; take a pound of butter, put it in a difh or [lew-pan, and fet it over a clear fire in a chafing-difh, and rub your butter about the difli till it is melted, then qiut your puddings in, and cover the difh, but often turn your puddings till they are brown alike, and when they arc enough grate fomeI 178 iugar over them, and ferve them up hot. For a fide-- difh you mult let the pade lie for a quarter of an hour before you make up your puddings, 423. A Custard Pudding. Take a pint of cream, mix with it fix eggs, well beat, two Spoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated, a little fait and fugar to your tafte ; butter your cloth, I put it in when the pan boils, boil it juft half an hour,, and melt butter for the fauce. 424. Fried Toasts.. Chip a manchet very well, and cut it round ways; in toads, then take cream and eight eggs feafoned'. with fack, fugar, and nutmeg, and let thofe toads deep in it about an hour, then fry them in fweet but- ter, ferve them up with plain melted butter, or with; butter, fack and fugar as you pleafe. 425. Sauce fur Fish or Flesh. Take a quart of vinegar or alegar, put it into a jug, then take Jamaica pepper whole, fome Sliced ginger and mace; a few cloves, fome lemon-peel,, horfe-radifh Sliced, fweet herbs, fix fhalots peeled,.^ eight anchovies, and two or three fpoonfuls of fhred: capers, put all thofe in a linen bag, and put the bag into your alegar or vinegar, flop the jug clofe, and keep it for uS'e. A fpoonful cold is an addition to fauce, for either fifli or flefh. 426'. A savoury Dish of Veal. Cut large collops off a leg of veal, fpread them abroad on a dreffer, hack them with the back of a179 knife, and dip them in the yolks of eggs, feafon them with nutmeg, mace, pepper, and fait, then make forced-meat with fome of your veal, beef-luet, oy- fters chopped, and fweet herbs (bred line ; and the., above fpice, ftrew all thefe over your collops, roll and tie them up, put them on (kewers, tie them to a fpit and roaft them ; and to the reft of your forced- meat add the yolk of an egg or two, and make it up in balls and fry them, put them in a dilh with your meat when roaited, put a little water in the dilh un- ■ derthem, and when they are enough put to it an an- chovy, a little gravy, a fpoonful of white wine, and thicken it up with a little flour and butter, fo fry your balls and lie round the dilh and ferve it up. This is proper for a fide-dilh either at noon or night. 427- French Bread. Take half a peck of line flour, the yolks of fix eggs and four whites, a little fait, a pint of ale yeall, and as much new milk made warm as will make a thin light pafte, ftir it about with your hand, but be fure you don’t knead them ; have ready fix wooden quarts or pint dilhes, fill them with thfe palle (not over full) let them (land a quarter bf an hour to rife, then turn them out into the oven, and when they are baked rafp them. The oven mull be quick. 4-8. (miger-Bread another zcai/. Take three pounds of fine flour, and the rind of a lemon dried and beaten to powder, half a pound of iugar, or more if you like it, a little butter, and an ounce and a half of beaten ginger, mix all thefe to- gether, and wet it pretty ft iff with nothing but trea-180 cle ; make it into rolls or cakes which you pleafe ; if you pleafe you may add candied orange-peel and ci- tron ; butter your paper to bake it on, and let it be baked hard, 429- Quince Cream. Take quinces when they are full ripe, cut them in quarters, fcald them till they be foft, pare them, and mafh the clear part of them, and the pulp, and put it through a fieve, take an equal weight of quince and double-refined fugar, beaten and fifted, and the whites of eggs beat till it is as white as fnow, then put it into difhes. You may do apple cream the fame way. 4 30. Cream of any preserved Fruit. Take half a pound of the pulp of any prefervcd fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat them well together for an hour, then with a fpoon take it off. and Jay it heaped up high on the dilh and falver without cream, or put it in the middle bafon. Rafpberries will not do this way. 431. To dry Pears or Pippins without Sugar. Take pears or apples and wipe them clean, take a bodkin and run it in at the head, and out at the flalk, put them in a flat earthen pot and bake them, but not too much ; you mud put a quart of ftrong new ale to half a peck of pears, tie double papers over the pots that they arc baked in, let them (land till cold, thenJ 81 drain them, fqueeze the pears flat, and. the apples, the eye to the llalks, aixd. lay them on ihtves with wide holes to dry, either in a llove or an oven not too hot. 432. To preserve Mulberries whole. Set Tome mulberries over the lire in the Ikillet or preferving pan, draw from them a pint of juice when it is drained ; then take three pounds of fugar beaten very line, wet the fugar with the pint of juice, boil up your fugar and ikim it, put in two pounds of ripe mulberiies, and let them (laud in the fyrup till they are thoroughly warm, then fet them on the lire, and let them boil very gently ; do them but half enough, fo put them by in the fyrup till next day, then boil them gently again ; when the fyrup is pretty thick and 'will Hand in round drops when it is cold, they are enough, fo put all in a gallipot for ufe. 433. To make Orange Cakes. Cut your oranges, pick out the meat and juice free from the ilrings and feeds, fet it by, then boil it, and Ihift the water till your peels are tender, dry them with a cloth, mince them fmall, and put them to the juice ; to a pound of that weigh a pound and a halt' of double refined fugar ; dip your lumps of fu- gar in water, and boil it to a candy-height, take it - olF the lire and put in your juice and peel, liar it well, when it is almolt cold put it into a bafon, and fet it in a Hove, then lay it thin on earthen plates to dry, and as it candies, faihion it with a knife, and lay them on glades ; when your plate is. empty, put more out of your bafon. a1-82 434. To dry Apricots like PruncUos. Take a pound of apricots before they be full ripe, cut them in halves or quarters, let them boil till they be very tender in a thin fyrup, and let them (land a day or two in the ftove, then take them out of the fyrup, lay them to dry till they be as dry as prunel- los, then box them, if you pleafe you may pare them. You may make your fyrup red with the juice of red plums. 435. To preserve green white Plums. Take a pound of white plums, take three quar- ters of a pound of double refined fugar in lumps, dip your fugar in water, boil and Ikim it very well, flit your plums down the feam, and put them into the fyrup writh the flit downwards; let them flew over the fire a quarter of an hour, Ikim them very well, then take them off, and when cold cover them up ; turn them in the fyrup two or three times a day for four or five days, then put them into pots and keep them for ufe. 436'. To make Gooseberry Jline another xcay. Take goofeberries when they are full ripe, pick and beat them in a marble mortar ; to every quart of berries put a quart of water, put them into a tub, and let them ftand all night, then drain them through a hair-fieve, and prefs them Very well with your hand ; to every gallon of juice put three pounds offevenpenny fugar, when your fugar is melted put it into the bar- rel, and to as many gallons of juice as you have, take as many pounds of Malaga raifins, ch6p them in abowl, and put them in the barrel with the wine, be lure let not your barrel be over full, fo clofe it up, let it (land three months in the barrel, and when it is- fine bottle it, but not before. 437. To pickle Nasturtium Buds. Gather your little knobs quickly after the bloffoms are off, put them in cold water and fait three days, fliifting them once a day ; then make a pickle for them (but don’t boil them at all) of lome white wine, and fome white wine vinegar, lhalot, horle-radifh, whole pepper and fait, and a blade or two of mace ; then put in your feeds, and flop them dole up. They are to be eaten as capers. 438. To make Elder*Flower Wine. Take three or four handfuls of dried elder flowers, and ten gallons of fpring water, boil the water, and pour it fealding hot upon the flowers, the next day put to every gallon of water five pounds of Malaga raifins, the (talks being firft picked ofF, "But not waffl- ed, chop them grofsly with a chopping knife, then put them into your boiled water, ftir the water, rai- fins and flowei-3 well together, and do fo twice a day for twelve days, then prefs out the juice clear as long as you oan get any liquor ; put it into a barrel fit for it, (top it up two or three days till it works, and in a few days flop it up clofe, and let it Hand two or three months, then bottle it. 439. Pearl Bar lei/ Pudding. Take half a pound of pearl barley, cree it in foft water, and fnitt it once or twice in the boiling till itbe foft; take five eggs, put to them a pint of good cream and half'a pound of powder fugar, grate in Haifa nutmeg, a little fait, a fpoonful or two of rofc- water, and Half a pound of clarified butter ; when your barley is cold mix them all together, fo bake it with a puff palte round the difh edge. Serve it up with a little rofe-water, fugar, and but- ter for your fauce. 440. Gooseberry Vinegar another way. Take goofeberries when they are full ripe, bruife them in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, and tp every unheaped half peck of berries take a gallon of water, put it to them in the barrel, let it Hand in a warm place for two weeks, put a paper on the top of your barrel, then draw it off, wafit out the barrel, put it in again, and to every gallon add a pound of coarfe fugar; fet it in a warm place by the fire, and let it Hand till Chriftmas. 441. To preserve Apricots green. Take apricots when they are young and tender, coddle them a little, rub them with a coarfe cloth to take off the fkin, and throw them into water as you do them, and put them in the lame water they were coddled in, cover them with vine leaves, a white pa- per, or fomething more at the top, the cloler yon keep them the fooner they are green ; be lure you don’t let them boil; when they ate green weigh them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of loaf fugar, put it into a pan, and to every pound of fugar a jill of water, boil your fugar and water a little and lkim it, then put in your apricots, letthem boil to-135 gcther till your apricots look clear, and your fyrup thick, Ikim it all the time it is boiling, and put them into a pot covered with a paper dipped in brandy. 442. To make Orange Chips another wap. Pare your oranges, not over thin but narrow, throw the rinds into fair water as you pare them off, then boil them therein very fall till they be tender, filling up the pan with boiling water as it wades away, then make a thin fyrup with part of the water they are boiled in, put in the rinds, and juft let them boil, then take them off, and let them lie in the fyrup three or four days, then boil them again till you tind the fyrup begin to draw between your fingers, take them off Irom the fire, and let them drain through your cul- lender, take out but a few at a time, becaufe if they cool too fall it will be difficult to get the lyrup from them, which mult be done by palling every piece of peel through your fingers, and laying them lingle on a fieve with the rind upper moll, the fieve may be fet in a dove, or before the fiic ; but in fummer the fun is hot enough to dry them. Three quarters of a pound of fugar will make fy- rup to do the peels of twenty-five oranges. 443. Mmhroom Powner. Tajce about half a peck of large buttons or flaps, clean them and fet them in an earthen dilh or drip- ping pan one by one, let them Hand in a flow oven tb dry whillt they will beat to powder, and when they are powdered lift them through a fieve ; take half a quarter of an ounce of mace# and nutmeg, beat them very fine, and mix them with your mulhroom 0^3for uie. You mull not wafh your muihrooms. 444. To preserve Apricots another way. Take-your apricots before they are full ripe, pare them and ftone them, and to every pound of apricots take a pound of loaf fugar, put it into your pan with as much water as will wet it ; to four pounds of fugar take the whites of two eggs beat them well to a froth, mix them well with your fu- gar whilft it be cold, then fet it over the fire and let it have a boil, take it off the fire, and put in a fpoon- ful or two of water, then take off the Ikim, and do fo three or four times whilft airy Ikim rifes ; put in your apricots, and let them have a quick boil over the fire ; take them off and turn them over, let them Hand a little while covered, and then fet them on again, let them have another boil and ikim them, then take them out one by one ; fet on your fyrup again to boil down, and ikim it, put in your apri- cots again, and let them boil whilft they look clear, put them in [lots, when they are cold cover them over with a paper dipped in brandy, and tie another paper at the lop, let them in a cool place and keep them for ufe. 445. To pickle Mushrooms another way. When you have cleaned your mufhrooms put them into a poi, throw over them a handful of (alt, ilop them very clofe with a cloth, fet them in a pan of water to boil about an hour, give them a fhake now and then in the boiling, then take them out and drain the liquor from them, wipe them dry with a cloth,187 and put them up either in white wine vinegar or diililled vinegar, with fpices, and put a little oil on the top. They don’t look fo white this way, but they have more the tafle of muflirooms. 446'. How to fry Mushrooms. Take the largeft and frelheft flaps you can get, fkin them and take out the gills, boil them in a little fait and water, then wipe them dry with a cloth ; take two eggs and beat them very well, half a fpoon- ful of wheat flour, and a little pepper and fait, then dip in your muflirooms and fry them in butter. They are proper to lie about flewed muflirooms or any made difli. 447. To make an Ale Posset. Take a quart of good milk, fet it on the fire to boil, put in a handful or two of bread crumbs, grate in a little nutmeg, and fweeten it to your tafle; take three jills ot ale and give it a boil ; take the yolks of four eggs, beat them very well ; put to them a little ot your ale, and mix all your ale and eggs together ; then fet ic on the fire to heat, keep lUrring it all the time, but don’t let it boil, if you do it will curdle ; then put it into your clifli, heat the milk and put it in by degrees; fo ferve it up. \ ou may make it of any fort of made wine ; make it halt an hour before you uie it, and keep it hot be- fore the fire. 448. Minced Pics another zvay: I akt half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanch and beat them with a little rofe-water, but not over188 fmall 5 take a pound of beef fuet fhred very fine, half a pound of apples fhred fmall, a pound of currants well cleaned, half a pound of powder fugar, a little mace fhred fine, about a quarter of a pound of can- died orange cut in fmall pieces, a fpoonful or two of brandy, and a little fait, fo mix them well together, and bake it in a puff pafte. 449- Sack Posset another nay. Take a quart of good cream, and boil it with a blade or two of mace, put in about a quarter of a pound of fine powder fugar; take a pint of fack or better, fet it over the fire to heat, but don’t let it boil, then grate in a little nutmeg, and about a quarter of a pound of powder fugar; take nine eggs (leave out fix of the whites and drains) beat them very well, then put to them a little of your fack, mix the fack and eggs very well together, then put to them the reft of your fack, ftir it all the time you are pouring it in, fet it over a flow fire to thicken, and ftir it till it be as thick as cuftard ; (be fure you don’t let it boil, if you do it wiW curdle) then pour it into your difh or baton ; take your cream boiling hot, and pour it to your fack by degrees, flirring it all the time you are pouring it in, then fet it on a hot hearth-done; you mull make it half an hour before you ufe it; before you fet it on the hearth cover it clofe with a pewter difh. A Froth for the Posset. Take a pint of the thickefl cream you can get, and beat the whites of two eggs very well, put them to your cream, and fwceten it to your tafle, whifk them very well together, take ofl the froth by fpoonfuls,189 and lie it in a fieve to drain ; when you difli up the poffet lie the froth over it. 450. To dry Cherries another way. Take clierries when full ripe, done them and break them as little as you can in the ftoning ; to fix pounds of cherries take three pounds of loaf fugar, beat it, lie one part of your fugar under your cherries, and the.other at the top, let them hand all night, then put them into your pan, and boil them pretty quick whilil your cherrits change and look clear, then let them hand in the fyrup all night, pour the fyrup from them, and fet them either in the fun or before the fire ; let them Hand to dry a little, then lay them on white papers one by one, let them Hand in the fun whild they be thoroughly dry ; in the drying turn them over, then put them into a little box ; be- twixt every layer of cherries lie a paper, and do fo till all are in, then lie a paper at the top, and keep them for ufe. You mult not boil them over long in the fyrup, for if it be over thick it will keep them from drying ; you may boil two or three pounds more cherries in the fyrup after. 451. How to order Sturgeon. If your fturgeon be alive, keep it a night and a day before you ufe it , then cut off the head and tail, fplit it down the back, and cut it into as many pieces as you pleafe ; fait it with bay fait and common fait, as you do beef for hanging, and let it lie twenty-four hours ; then tie it up very tight, and boil it in fait, and water whilil it is tender ; (you mud not boil it over much) when it is boiled throw over it a little fait,190 and fet it by till it be cold. Take the head and fplit it in two, and tie it up very tight; you muft boil it by itfelf, not fo much a3 you did the reft, but fait it after the fame manner. * „ 452. To make the Pickle. Take a gallon of foft water, and make it into a ftrong brine; take a gallon of dale beer, and a gal- lon of the bell: vinegar, and let it all boil together, with a few fpices ; when it is cold put in your itur- ' geon, you may keep it, if clofe covered, three or four months before you need to renew the pickle. 453. Hotch-Potch. Take five or fix pounds of frelh beef, put it into a kettle with fix quarts of foft water, and an onion ; fet it on a flow fire, and let it boil till your beef is al- moft enough ; then put in the ferag of a neck of: mutton, and let them boil together till the broth be very good; put in two or three handfuls of bread crumbs, two or three carrots and turnips cut fmall (but boil the carrots in water before you put them in, elfe they will give your broth a tafte) with hall a peck of (helled peas, but take up the meat before you put them in, when you put in the peas take the other part of your mutton and cut it in chops (for it will take no more boiling than the peas) and put it in with a few fweet herbs (hred very fmall, and fait to your tafte. You muft fend up the mutton chops in the di(h i with the hotch-potch. When there are no peas to be had, you may put in the heads of afparngus, and if there be neither of ■191 thefe to be had, you may fhred in a green favoy cabbage. This is a proper difh inflead of foup. 454. Mincecl Collops. Take two or three pounds of any tender part of beef (according as you would have the difh in bignefs) cut it fmall as you would do minced veal ; take an onion, fhred it fmall, and fry it a light brown in butter feafoned with nutmeg, pepper and fait, and put the meat into your pan with your onion, and fry it a little whild it be a light brown ; then put to it a jill of good gravy, and a fpoonful of walnut pickle, or a little catchup ; put in a few fhred capers or mufhrooms, thicken it up with a little flour and but- ter ; if you pleafe you may put in a little juice of le- mon ; when you difh it up garnifh your difh with pickle, and a few forced-meat balls. It is proper for either fide difh or top difh. . 455. Uhite Scotch Collops another way. Take two pounds of the folid part of a leg. of veal, 'cut in pretty thin dices, and feafon it with a little fhred mace and fait, put it into your flew-pan with a lump of butter, fet it over the fire, keep it ltirring all the time, but do not let it boil ; when you arc going to difh up the collops, put to them the yolks of two or three eggs, three fpoonfuls of cream, a fpoonful or two of white wine, and a little juice of lemon, fhake it oyer the fire whilft it be fo thick that the fauce flicks to the meat; be fure you don’t let it boil.1S2 Garnifhyour difh with lemon and fippets, and ferve it up hot. This is proper for either fide difh or top difh, noon or night. 456,. Vinegar another tray. Take as many gallons of water as you pleafe, and to every gallon of water put in a pound of feven- penny fugar, boil it for half an hour and Ikim it ail the time ; when it is about blood warm put to it three or four fpoonfuls of light yeafi, let it work in the tub a night and a day, put it into your veffel, clofe up the top with a paper, and fet it as near the fire as you have convenience, and in two or three days it will be good vinegar. 457. To preserve Quinces another way. Take quinces, pare and put them into water, lave all the parings and cores, let them lie in the water with the quinces, fet them oyer the fire with the par- ings and cores to coddle, cover them dole up at the top with the parings, and lie over them either a difh- cover or pewter difh, and cover themdole ; let them hang over a very flow fire whilll they be tender ; but don’t let them boil ; when they are foft take them out of the water, and weigh your quinces, and to every pound put a pint of the lame water they were coddled in (when llrained) and a pound of fugar ; put them into a pot or pewter flaggon, the pewter makes them a much better colour ; dole them up with a little coarfe palte, and let them in a bread oveu ail night; if the fyrup be too thin boil it down, put it to your quinces and keep it for ule. \ ou may cither do it with powder lugar or loaf lugar.193 45 S. To make Almond Cheesecakes ano- ther way. Take the peel of two or three lemons pared thick, boil them pretty foft, and change the water two or three times in the boiling; when they are boiled beat them very fine with a little loaf iugar, then take eight eggs (leaving out fix of the whites) half a pound of loaf or powder fugar, beat the eggs and iugar for half an hour, or better ; take a quarter of a pound of the bell almonds, blanch and beat them with three or four fpoonfuls of rofe-water, but not over fmall; take ten ounces of frefit butter, melt it without water, and clear off from it the buttermilk, then mix them all together very well, and bake them in a flow oven in a puff paile; before you put them into the tins, put in the juice of half a lemon. When you put them in the oven grate over them a little loaf iugar. You may make them without almonds, if you pleafe. You may make a pudding of the fame, only leave out the almonds.1 ' ' ■ *!• ■ • ■ENGLISH HOUSEWIFERY IMPROVED; OK, TO MOXON’S COOKERY; CONTAINING T7PITARDS 0? EIGHTY MODERN AND VALUABLE RECEIPTS. WITH CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS.r. i .. ) .• • ■ ft •' t. . — • . *»r v197 A / SUPPLEMENT TO MOXON’S COOKERY, 1. A Granade. rjpA KE the caul of a leg of veal, lay it into a round pot ; put a layer of the flitch part of bacon at the bottom, then a layer of forced-meat, and a layer of the leg part of veal cut as for collops, till the pot is tilled up ; which done, take the part of the caul that lies over the edge of the pot, dole it up, tie a paper over, and fend it to the oven ; when baked, turn it out into your difh. Sauce.—A good light bro*vn gravy, with a few mulhrooms, morels, or truffles : lerve it up hot. 2. The Jine Brown Jelly. Boil four calf’s feet in fix quarts of water, till it is reduced to three pints, take out the feet and let the * 3198 flock cool, then melt it, and have ready in a Rew- pan, a fpoonful of butter hot, add to it a fpoonful of fine flour, ftir it with a wooden fpoon over a (love fire, till it is very brown, but not burnt, then put the jelly out and let it boil; when cold take off the fat, melt the jelly again, and put to it half a pint of red port, the juice and peel of half a lemon, white pepper, mace, a little Jamaica pepper, and a little fait; then have ready the whites of four eggs, well frothed, and put them into the jelly (take care the jelly be not too hot when the whites are put in) flir it well together, and boil it over a quick fire one minute, run it through a flannel bag and turn it back till it be clear, and what form you would have it, have that ready, pour a little of the jelly in the bottom, it will foon hark- en ; then place what you pleafe in it, either pigeon or fmall chicken, fweetbread larded, or pickled fmelt or trout, place them in order, and pour on the remainder of the jelly. You may fend it up in this form, or turn it into another difli, with holding it over hot water ; but not till it is thoroughly hard- ened. 3. To make a Melon. Make the leanefl forced-meat that you can, green it as near the colour of melon as pofCble with the j-uice of fpinage, as little of the juice as you can; put feveral herbs in it, efpecially parfley Ihrtd fine, for that will help to green it ; roll it an inch and a half thick, lay one half in a large melon mould, well buttered and floured, with the other half the full fizc of the mould, lidos and all ; then put into it as many Hewed oyilers as will near fill it with liquor fufficicnt to keep them moilt, and dole the forced-meat well199 together; clofe the melon and boil it till you think it is enough ; then make a fmall hole (if poffible not to be perceived) pour in a little more of the liquor that the oylters were dewed in hot, and ferve it up with hot fauce in the difn. It mult be boiled in a cloth and is either for a firfl or fecond courfe. 4. Hot Chicken Pie. Order the chickens as for fricaflee, and form the pie deep, lay in the bottom a minced-meat made of the chickens’ livers, ham, parfley and yolks of eggs, fea- fon with white pepper, mace, and a little fait; moift- en with butter, then lay the chicken above the minced-meat, and a little more butter; cover the pie and bake it two hours ; when baked take off the fat, and add to it white gravy, with a little juice of le- mon. Serve this up hot. 5. Sheep's Rumps with Rice. Stew the rumps very tender, then take them out to cool, dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry them a light brown ; have ready half a pound of rice, well wafhedarid picked, and half a pound of butter ; let it flew ten minutes in a little pot ; then add a pint of good gravy to the rice and butter, and let it llew halt an hour longer ; have ready fix onions boiled very tender, and fix yolks of boiled eggs, flick them with cloves; then place the fheep’s rumps on the difh, and put round them the rice as neatly as you can ; place the onions and eggs over the rice, fo ferve it up hot.200 6. Sheep's Tongues broiled. The tongues being boiled, put a lump of butter in a ftew-pan, with parfley and green onions cut fmali; then fplit the tongues, but do not part them, and put them into the pirn ; feafon them with pepper, herbs, mace, and nutmeg; fee- them a moment on the fire and ftrew crumbs of bread on them ; let them be broiled and dilh them up, with a high gravy fauce. 7. To lard Oysters. Make a ftrong eflence of ham and veal, with a lit- tle mace ; then lard the large oy Iters with a fine lard- ing pin ; put them, with as much eifence as will cover them, into a ftew-pan ; let them (lew an hour or more, over a flow fire. They are ufed for gamilhing, but when you make a dilh of them, fqueeze in a Se- ville orange. 8. Veal Cou/ey. Take a little lean bacon and veal, onion, and the yellow part of a carrot, put it into a ftew-pan ; let it over a flow fire, and let it fimmer till the gravy is quite brown, then put in fmali gravy, or boiling wa- ter ; boil it a quarter of an hour, and then it is ready for ufe. Take two necks of mutton, bone them, lard one with bacon, the other with parfley ; when larded put a little couley over a flow ftove, with a fliee of lemon wiiilft the mutton is fet, then ikewer it up like a couple of rabbits, put it on the fpit and roalt it as you would any other mutton ; then ferve it up with ragooed cucumbers. 1 his will do lor lirft courle, bottom dilh.<7. The Mock Turtle. Take a fine large calf’s head, cleanfed well and fie wed very tender, a leg of veal twelve pounds weight, leave out three pounds of the fined: part of it; then take three fine large fowls (bone them, but have the meat as whole as pofiible) and four pounds of the fineft ham diced; then boil the real, fowls’ bones, and the ham in fix quarts of water, till it is reduced to two quarts, put in the fowl and the three pounds .of veal, and let them boil half an hour ; take it off the fire and drain the gravy from it ; add to the gravy three pints of the bed white wine, boil it up and thicken it; then put in the calf’s head ; have in readinefs twelve large forced-meat balls, as large as an egg, and twelve yolks of eggs boiled hard. Diffl it up hot in a tureen. 10. To dress Or Lips. Take three or four ox lips, boil them as tender as pofiible, drefs them clean the day before they are ufed ; then make a rich forced-meat of chicken or half roaded rabbits, and du(T the lips with it ; they will naturally turn round ; tie them up with pack- thread and put them into gravy to dew ; they mult dew while the forced-meat Ire enough. Serve them up with truffles, morels, mufhrooms, cockfcombs, forced-meat balls, and a little lemon to your tade. This is a top difli for fecond, or fide difii, for fil'd courfe. 11. 'To moke Poverade. Take a pint of good gravy, half a jill of elder vine- gar, fix fhalots, a little pepper and fait, boil all thefe together a few minutes and drain it off. This is a202 proper fauce for turkey, or any other fort of white fowls. 12. To pot Partridges. Take the partridges and feafon them well with, mace, fait and a little pepper ; lie them in the pot with the breails downwards, to every partridge put three quarters of a pound of butter, fend them to the: oven; when baked drain from them the butter and; gravy, and add a little more feafoning, then put them, clofe in the pot with the breails upwards, and when cold, cover them well with the butter, fuit the pot to the number of the partridges to have it full. You. may pot any fort of moor-game the fame way. 13. To pot Partridges another rvay. Put a little thyme and parfley in the infide of the: partridges, feafon them with mace, pepper and fait; put them in the pot, and cover them with butter; when baked, take out the partridges, and pick all the; meat from the bones, lie the meat in a pot (without' beating) fkim all the butter from the gravy, and cover the pot well with the butcer. 14. To pot Char. Scrape and cut them, waih and dry them clean, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg-; let the two lalt ieafonings be higher than the other; put a little butter at the bottom of the pot ; then lie in the fiih, and put butler at the top, three pounds of butter to four pounds of char ; when they are baked (before they are cold) pour off the gravy and butter, put two or three fpoonfuls of butter into the pot you keep them in, then lie in the fifli; fleirn the203 butter clean from the gravy, and put the butter over the fifh, fo keep it for ufe. ] 5. Salmon en Malgi'e. Cut fome dices of frefh falmon the thicknefs of your thumb, put them in a ftew-pan with a little onion, white pepper and mace, and a bunch of fweet herbs, pour over it half a pint of white wine, half a Jill of water, and four ounces of butter (to a pound and half of falmon) cover the ftew-pan clofe ; and ftew it half an hour; then take out the falmon and place it on the difh ; (train off the liquor, and have ready craw-fifh, picked from the (hell, or lobfter cut in fmall pieces; pound the (hells of the craw-fifh, or the feeds of the lobfter, and give it a turn in the li- quor ; thicken it and ferve it up hot with the craw- fifh^ or lobfter, over the falmon. 1 routs may be done the fame way, only cut off their heads. 16. Lobster' A'LItalicnnc. Cut the tail of the lobfter in fquarc pieces, take the meat out of the claws, bruife the red part of the lob- iter very fine, ftir it in a pan with a little butter, put iome gravy to it; (train it off while hot, then put m the lobfter with a little fait; make it hot; and fend tt up with fippets round your difh. 17. To do Chickens or any FozePs Feet. Sca!d the feet till the fkin will come off, then cut off the nails ; (tew them in a pot clofe covered fet in water, and fome pieces of fat meat till they arc very wr;bWlhen y°U fet th€m °n thc fire> to them lime whole pepper, onions, fah, and fome fweet204. herbs ; when they are taken out, wet them over with the yolk of an egg, and dredge them well with bread- crumbs ; fo fry them crifp. 18. Larks done in Jelly. Boil a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water till it is reduced to three pints (it mult riot be covered but done over a clear fire) (kirn- it well and clarify it, then ieaion the larks with pepper and talt, pm them in a pot with butter, and fend them to the oven ; when baked take them out of the butter whilit hot, take the jelly and feafon it to your talte with pepper and lalt ; then put the jelly and larks into a pan to- gether, and gi e them a fcald over the fire ; fo lie: them in pots and cover them well with jelly. When you would ufe them, turn them out of the pots, and ierve them up. 1 i). The fine Catchup. Take three quarts of red port, a pint of vinegar, one pound of anchovies unwalhed, pickle and all to- gether, half an ounce of mace, ten cloves, eight ra- ces of ginger, one fpoonful of black pepper, eight ounces of horfe-raddh, half a lemon-peel, a bunch of winter favoury, and four fhalots ; itew thefe in a pot, within a kettle of water, one full hour, then tlrain it through a dole fieve, and when it is cold bottle it; (hake it well before you bottle it, that the fedimeut may mis. You may (tew all the ingredients over again in a quart of wine for prefent ule. 20. Walnut Catchup. Take the walnuts when they are ready for pieklinsr, beat them in a mortar, and (train the juice through a205 flannel bag; put to a quart of juice a jill of white wine, a jill of vinegar, twelve fhalots diced, a quar- ter of an ounce of mace, two nutmegs fliced, one ounce of black pepper, twenty-four cloves, and the peels of two Seville oranges pared fo thin that no white appears, boil it over a flow fire very well, and fltim it as it boils ; let it Itand a week or ten days covered very elofe, then pour it through the bag, and bottle it. 21. A very good White or Almoncl Soup. Take veal, fowl, qr any white meat, boiled down with a little mace (or other fpice to your tafte) let thefe boil to malh, then drain off the gravy ; take fome of the white flefhy part of the meat and rub it through a cullender; have ready two ounces of al- monds beat fine, rub thefe through the cullender, then put all into the gravy, fet it on the fire to thicken a little, and ftir in two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little butter worked in flour, then have ready a French roll crifp for the middle, and flips of bread cut long like Savoy bifeuits. Serve it up hot. 22. Almond Pudding. Take one pound of almonds, blanched and beat fine, one pint of Cream, the yolks of twelve eggs, two ounces of grated bread, half a pound of fuel, marrow, or melted butter, three quarters of a pound of fine iugar, a little lemon peel and cinnamon ; bake it in a flow oven, in a difli, or little, tins. The above are very good put in (kins. *206 23. Almond Pudding another zcay. Boil a quart of cream, when cold, mix in the whites of feven eggs well beat; blanch five ounces of almonds, beat them with rofe or orange-flower water, mix in the eggs and cream; fweeten it to yourtafte with fine powder fugar, then mix in a little citron or orange, put a thin pafte at the bottom, and a thicker round the edge of the diflt. Bake it in a flow oven. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 24. Almond Cheesecakes another way. Six ounces of almonds, blanched and beat with. rofe-water; fix ounces of butter beat to cream ; half a pound of fine fugar ; fix eggs well beat, and a little mace. Bake thefe in little tins, and cold butter palle. 25. A Lemon Pudding another zcay. Take a quarter of a pound of almonds, three quar- ters of a pound of fugar, beat and learced, half a pound oi butter, beat the almonds with a little rpfe- wrater, grate the rinds of two lemons, beat eleven eggs, leave out two whites, melt the butter and flir it: in ; when the oven is ready mix all thefe well toge- ther with the juice of one or two lemons'to your talte ; put a thin palte at the bottom, and a thicker round the edge of the did). Sauce. Wine and fugar. 26. Potatoc Pudding another way. Take three quarters of a pound of potatoes when boiled and peeled, beat them in a mortar with a quaiter of a pound of fuet or butter (if butter, melt207 it) a quarter of a pound of powder lugar, five eggs well beat, a pint of good milk, one fpoonful of flour, a little mace or cinnamon, and three fpoonfuls of wine or brandy ; mix all thefe well together, and bake it in a pretty quick oven. Sauce. Wine and butter. 27. Carrot Pudding another way. Take half a pound of carrots, when boiled and peeled, beat them in a mortar, two ounces of grated bread, a pint of cream, half a pound of fuet or mar- row, a glafs of faek, a little cinnamon, half a pound of fugar, fix eggs well beat, leave out three of the whites, and a quarter of a pound of macaroons ; mix all well together; puff-paCte round the difli edge. Sauce. Wine and fugar. 28. JVhite Pott another zv'ay. A layer of white bread cut thin at the bottom of the difti, a layer of apples cut thin, a layer of mar- row or fuet, currants, raifins, fugar and nutmeg, then the bread, and fo on as above, till the difir is filled up ; beat four eggs, and mix them with a pint of good milk, a little fugar and nutmeg, and pour It over the top. This fhould be made three or four hours before it is baked. Sauce. Wine and butter. 2.9- Hunting Pudding another zrai/. Lake a pound of grated bread, a pound of fuet and a pound of currants, eight eggs, a glafs of brandy, a little fugar ; and a little beat cinnamon ; S 2208 mix thefe well together and boil it two hours at the lead. 30. Almond Biscuits. Blanch a pound of almonds, lie them in water for three or four hours, dry them with a cloth, and beat them fine with eight fpoonfuls of rofe or orange- flower water ; then boil a pound of fine fugar to wire- height, and ftir in the almonds, mix them well over the fire ; but do not let them boil ; pour them into a baion, and beat them with a fpoon till quite cold ; then beat fix whites of eggs, a quarter of a pound of ftarch, beat and fearced, beat the eggs and flarch to- gether, till thick ; ftir in the almonds, and put them in queen-cake tins, half full, duft them over with a little fearced fugar; bake them in a flow oven and keep them dry. 31. To make Almond Butter another icoy. Take a quart of cream, fix eggs well beat, mix them and (train them into a pan, keep it flirring on the fire whilft it be ready to boil; then add a jack of fack, keeping it flirring tiil it comes to a curd ; wrap it dole in a cloth till the whey be run from it; then put the curd into a mortar, and beat it very fine, together with a quarter of a pound of blanched al- monds, beaten with role-water, and half a pound of loaf-fugar: when all thefe are well beaten together, put it into glafl'es. This will keep a fortnight. 32. Apricot Jumballs. Take ripe apricots, pare, done, and beat them209 moifture dried up, then take them off the fire, and beat them Up with fearced fugar, to make them into pretty ft iff pafte, roll them, without fugar, the thick- nefs of a ftraw, make them up in little knots in what form you pleafe ; dry them in a Hove or in the fun. You may make jumballs of any fort of fruit the fame way. 33. Burnt Cream. Boil a flick of cinnamon in a pint of cream, four eggs well beat, leaving out two whites, boil the cream and thicken it with the eggs as for a cuftard ; then put it in your difh, and put over it half a pound of loaf fugar beat and fearced ; heat a fire {hovel red hot, and hold it over the top till the fugar be brown. So ferve it up. 34. Little, Plum Calces. Take two pounds of flour dried, three pounds of currants well waflied, picked and dried, four eggs beaten with two fpoonfuls of fack, half a jack of cream, and one fpoonful of orange-flower or rofe- water ; two nutmegs grated, one pound of butter waflied in rofe-water and rubbed into the flour, and one pound of loaf fugar fearced, mix all well toge- ther, and put ip the currants ; butter the tins and bake them in a quick oven : half an hour will bake them. 35. York Ginger-Bread another way. 1 ake two pounds and a half of dale bread grated fine (but not dried) two pounds of fine powder fu- gar, an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of mace, s 3210 half an ounce of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of faunders, and a quarter of a pound of almonds; boil the fugar, faunders, ginger, and mace in half a pint of red wine; then put in three fpoonfuls of brandy, cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves ; ftir in half the bread on the fire, but do not let it boil; pour it out, and work in the reft of the bread with the almonds; then fmother it clofe half an hour ; print it with cinnamon and fugar fearced, and keep it dry. 36. Ginger-Bread in little Tins. To three quarters of a pound of flour, put half a pound of treacle, one pound of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; mace, cloves and nutmeg, in all a quarter of an ounce; a little ginger, and a few caraway feeds; melt the butter in a glafs of brandy, mix all together with one egg ; then butter the tins, and bake them in a pretty quick oven. 37. Oat-j\Ieal Cakes. Take a peck of fine flour, half a peck of oatmeal, and mix it well together ; put to it feven eggs well beat, three quarts of new milk, a little warm water, a pint of fack, and a pint of new yeaft ; mix all thefe well together, and let it (land to rife ; then bake them. Butter the ftone every time you lie on the cakes, and make them rather thicker than a pancake. 38. Bath Cakes. Take two pounds of flour, a pound of fugar, and a pound of butter: wafh the butter in orange-flower water, and dry the flour, rub the butter into theflour as for puflf pafte, beat three eggs fine in three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little mace and fait, mix thefe well together with your hand, and make them into little flat cakes; rub them over with white of egg, and grate fugar upon them ; a quarter of an hour will bake them in a flow oven. 39. A rich white Plum Cake. Take four pounds of flour dried, two pounds of butter, one pound and a half of double-reflned fu- gar beat and fearced*, beat the butter to a cream, then put in the fugar and beat it well together ; fix- teen eggs, leaving out four yolks; a pint of new yeafl ; five jills of good cream, and one ounce of mace (hied ; beat the eggs well, and mix them with the butter and fugar; put the mace in the flour; warm the cream, mix it with the yealt, and run it through a hair-fieve. mix all thefe into a pafte ; then add one pound of almonds blanched and cut fmall, and fix pounds of currants well walhed, picked and dried; when the oven is ready, ftir in the currants, with one pound of citron, lemon or orange, then butter the hoop and put it in. This cake will require two hours and a half baking ;n a quick oven. 40. An feeing /or the Cake. One pound and a half of double-refined fugar, beat and featced; the whites of four eggs, the bigtiefs of a walnut of gum dragon lletpcd in role or orange- flower water ; two ounces of ft arch, heat fine with a little powder blue; (which adds to the whitenefs) while the cake is baking, beat the iceing,' and Me it on with a knife as loon as the cake is brought from the oven.43. Lemon Brandy. Pour, a gallon of brandy into an earthen pot, put to it the yellow peel of two dozen lemons, let it Hand two days and two nights, then pour two quarts of fpring wa‘er into a pan and difl'olve in it two pounds of refined loaf fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and put it to the brandy ; then boil and Ikim three jills of blue milk, and mix all together, let it Hand two days more, then run it through a flannel bag, or a paper within a funnel, and bottle it. 42. To make Ratafia another tray. Take a hundred apricot ftones, break them and bruife the kernels, then put them in a quart of the belt brandy ; let them Hand a fortnight; (hake them every day ; put to them fix ounces of white fugar- candy, and let them Hand a week longer; then put the liquor through a jelly bag, and bottle it for ulc. 43. To preserve Grapes all I Tin ter. Pull them when dry, dip the (talks about an inch in boiling water, and feal the end with wax ; chop wheat (traw and put a little at the bottom of a barrel then a layer of grapes, and a layer of draw, until the barrel is filled up ; do not lie the bunches too near one another ; flop the barrel clofe, and fet it in a dry place ; but not any way in the fun. 44. 7o preserve Grapes another nay. Take ripe grapes and (lone them ; to every pound of grapes take a pound of double-refined fugar ; let them Hand till the fugar is diflolvcd ; boil them pret- ty-quick till clear; then (train out the grapes, and213 add. half a pound of pippin jelly, and half a pound more iugar; boil and ikim it till it comes to a jelly ; put in the grapes to heat; afterwards drain them out, and give the jelly a boil; put it to the grapes, and dir it tiil near cold, then glafs it. 45. Barberry Cakes. Draw off the juice as for currant jelly, take the weight of the jelly in fugar, boil the iugar to fugar again; put in the jelly, and keep it dining till the fugar is diffolved ; let it be hot, but not boil; pour it out, and ftir it three or f >ur times; when it is near cold drop it ojt glaffes in little cakes, and fet them in the ftove. If you would have them in the form of jumballs, boil the fugar to a high candy, but not to fugar again, and pour it on a pie plate ; when it will part from the plate cut it, and turn them into what form you pleafe. 46. Barberry Drops. When the barberries are full ripe, pull them off the (talk, put them into a pot, and boil them in a pan of water till they are foft ; pulp them through a hair-frtve ; beat and fearce the fugar, and mix as much of the fearced fugar with the pulp, as will make it of the confidence of a light pade ; then drop them with a peri-knife on paper (glazed with a flight done) and fet them within the air of the fire for an hour, then take them off the paper and keep them dry. 47. To candy Oranges whole another way. 1 ake Seville oranges, pare off the rinds as thin as you can ; tie them in a thin cloth (with a lead weightto keep the cloth down) put them in a lead or cillern of river water ; let them lay five or fix days, ftirring thtm about every day, then boil them while they are fo tender that you may put a draw through them ; mark them at the top with a thimble, cut it out, and take out all the infide very carefully, then wafh the 'fkins clean in warm water, and fet them to drain with the tops downwards ; fine the fugar very well, and when it is cold put in the oranges, drain the fyrup from the oranges, and boil it every day till it be very thick, then once a month ; one orange will take a pound of fugar. 48. To Candy Ginger. Take the thicket! races of ginger, put them in an earthen pot, and cover them with river water ; put frefh water to them every day for a fortnight; then tie the ginger in a cloth, and boil it an hour in a large pan of water ; ferape oil the brown rind, and cut the infide of the races as broad and thin as yog can, one pound of ginger will take.three pounds of loaf lugar ; beat and fearce the fugar, and put a lay- er of the thin flieed ginger, and a layer of fearced fu- gar into an earthen bowl, having fugar at the top; ilir it well every other day for a fortnight, then boil it over a little charcoal; when it is candy height take it out of the pan as quick as you can with a lpoon, and lie it in cakes.on a board ; when near cold take them off and keep them dry. 4.9- To preserve J Cine-Sours. Take wine-fours, and loaf fugar an equal weight, wet the fugar with water ; the white of one egg will fine four pounds of fugar, and as the ikitn rifes throwon a little watery tlien take off the pan, let it Hand a little to fettle, and Ikim it ; boil it again while any fltim rifes ; when it is clear and a thick fyrup take it off atid let it itand till near cold, then nick the plums down the feam, and let them hare a gentle heat over the fire; take the plums and fyrup and let them ftand a day or two, but don’t cover them ; then give them another gentle heat; let them Hand a day long- er, and heat them again ; take the plums out and drain them, boil the fyrup and fkim it well; put it on the wine-fours, and when cold, put them into bottles or pots, tie a bladder clofe over the top, fo keep them for ufe, 50. Currant Jel/jj. Take eight pounds of ripe picked fruit, put thefe into three pounds of fugar boiled candy height, ainjl fo let them fnnmer till the jelly will let; then run it off clear through a flannel bag, and glafs it up for ufe. This never looks blue, nor Ikims half fo much, as the other way. 51. To preserve red or white Currants' whole. Pick two pounds of currants from the (talks, then take a pound and a halt of loaf fugar, and wet it in halt a pint of currant juice, put in, the berries, and boil them over a flow fire till they are clear ; when cold put them in fniall berry bottles, with a Little mutton fuet over them. 52. Syrup of Hopples. Take two pounds of poppy flowers, two o'unces of raifins, fnred them, and to every pound of poppies£16 put a quart of boiling water, half an ounce of anni» feeds; let thcfe Hand twelve hours to infufe, then drain off the liquor, and put it upon the fame quan- tity of poppies, railins, liquorice, and annifeeds aa before, and let this Hand twelve hours to infufe, which mud be in a pitcher fet within a pot or pan of hot water ; then drain it, and take the weight ift fugar, and boil it to a fyrup ; when it is cold bottle it. 53. To make Black Paper for drawing Patterns. Take a quarter of a pound of muttbn fuet, and one ounce of bees wax, melt botli together, and put in as much lamp-black as will colour it dark enough, then fpread it over your paper with a rag, and hold it to the fire to make it frnooth. 54. Gooseberry Vinegar another way. To every gallon of water put fix pounds of ripe goofeberries ; boil the water and let it be Cold, fqueeze the berries, and then pour on the water ; let it dand covered three days pretty warm to work, din ing it once a day ; then drain it off, and to every fix gallons put three pound* of coarfe lugar, let it Hand till it has done wotK.ng, then bung it up and keep it moderately warm ; in nine months it will be ready for ufe. 55. To make bad . lie into good strong Beer. Draw off the al<? into a clean veffel (fuppofe half a bogdiead') Only leave out eight of ttn quarts, to which217 put four pounds of good hops, boil this near an hour ; when quite cold, put the ale and hops into the hog- fhead, with eight pounds of treacle, mixed well with four or five quarts of boiled ale ; ftir it well together, and bung it up dole. Let it Hand fix months, then bottle it for uie. 56. Green Gooseberry Wine. To every quart of goofeberries take a quart of fpring water, bruife them in a mortar, put the wa- ter to them and let them Hand two or three days; Itrain it ofl, and to every gallon of liquor put three pounds and a half of fugar ; put it into a barrel, and it will of itfelf rife to a froth, which take off, and keep the barrel full; when the froth is all worked off, bung it up for fix weeks, then rack it off, ai d when the lees are clean taken out, put the wine into the fame barrel again ; to every gallon put half a pound ot lugar, made into lyrup, and when cold mix it with the wine: to every five gallons, half an ounce of ifin- glafs, ddfijlved in a lictle of the wine, and putin with the lyrup, fo bung it up ; when fine, you may either bottle it or draw it out of the veffel. Lilbon wine is thought the belt. This wine drinks like fack. 57. Ginger Wine. Take fourteen quarts of water, three pounds of loaf lugar, and one ounce of ginger iliced thin, boil itieic togethei half an hour, fine it with the whites of two eggs ; when new nnlk warm put in three le- mons, a quart of brandy, and a white bread toalt covered on both fides with ycait: put all theie T to-218 gether into a (land, and work it one day, then tun it: it will be ready to bottle in five days, and ready to drink in a week after it is bottled. .58. Cowslip Wine another way. To five gallons of water, put two pecks of cowflip peeps, and thirteen pounds of loaf fugar; boil the fugar and water with the rinds of two lemons half an hour, and fine it with the whites of two eggs ; when it is near cold put in the cowflips, and fet on fix fpoonfuls of new yealt, work it two days, ftirring it twice a day ; when you fqueeze out the peeps to tun it, put in the juice of fix lemons, and when it has done working in the veffel, put in a quarter of an ounce of ifinglafs diffolved in a little of the wine till it is a jelly ; add a pint of brandy, bung it clofe up two months, then bottle it. This is right good. .59- Strong Mead another way. To thirty quarts of w'ater, put ten quarts of honey, let the water be pretty warm, then break in the ho- ney, ftirring it till it be all diffolved ; boil it a full half hour, when clean 'fkimmed that no more will rife, put in half an ounce of hops, picked clean from the ftalks; a quarter of an ounce of ginger diced (only put in half the ginger) and boil it a quarter of an hour longer ; then lade it out into the (land thro’ a hair-tems, and put the remainder of the ginger in, / when it is cold tun it into the veffel, which muft be full, but not clayed up till near a month : make it the latter end of September, and keep it a year ir the veffel after it is clayed up.219 60. French Bread. To half a peck of flour, put a full jill of new yeaft, and a little fait, make it with new milk (warmer than from the cow) firit put the flour and yeaft together, then pour in the milk, make it a little differ than, a feed cake, dull it and your hands_well with flour, pull it in little pieces, and mould it with flour very quick ; put it in the difhes. and cover them with a warm cloth (if the weather requires it) and let them rife till they are half up, then fet them in the oven (not in. the difhes, but turn them with the tops down upon the peel) when baked rafp them. 6i. The Jine Rush Cheese. Take one quart of cream, and put to it a gallon of new milk, pretty warm, adding a good fpoonful of earning ; ftir in a little fait, and fet it before the lire till it be corned ; then put it into a vat in the cloth ; after a day and a night turn it out of the vat into a rufh box nine inches in length and live in breadth. The rufhes mult be walhed every time the cheele is turned. 62. To make Raspberry Jam. Bruife a pint of rafpberriea in a little currant juice, add to it one pound and a quarter of loaf tugar beat line, boil it over a flow fire, llirring it till it jellies, then pour it into your pots, and when cold, put on papers dipped in brandy, and tie other papers over them. T 2 /220 63. Stoughton. Take four drams of cochineal beat fine, a quarter of an ounce of faffron, three drams of rhubarb, one ounce of gentian cut final], and the parings of five or fix Seville oranges; to thefe ingredients put three pints of brandy, let all ftand within the air of the fire three or four days; then pour off the liquor, and fill the bottle again with brandy, putting in the peel of one or two oranges : let this ftand fix or eight d3yr, then pour it off through a fine cloth ; mix the former and this together, and it is fit for ufe. 6’4. Orange Butter. Take a quarter of an ounce of clear orange juice, and a quarter of a pint of white wine ; fteep the peel of an orange in it about half an hour, take it out, and put in as much fugar as will take off the fharp- nefs : beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, mix them with it, and fet it upon the fire, ftirring it con- tinually till it is almoft as thick as butter; juft before you take it off ftir in the bignefs of a nut of butter. Make it the day before you ufe it, and ferve it up as other butter. 65. Sago Buckling another zraj/. Take two ounces of fago, boil it pretty foft in three jills of new milk, with a little mace or cinna- mon ; when it is cold put in four ounces of beef fuet, two ounces of grated bread, two fpoonfnls of brandy or wine, four ounces of fugar, and a little nutmeg, candied lemon, orange, or citron. 66. Cowslip IV.nc another way. Take eight gallons of water, add to it twentypounds of loaf or fine powder fugar, and the whites of five or fix eggs ; boil it half an hour, and lkim it very clean ; pour it into a tub, and when it is blood warm put in eight pecks of peeps, the parings and juice of eight lemons, and fet on fourteen ipoonfuls of few yeait ; work it four or five days, llirring it every day, fqueeze out the peeps, tun it, and put in a little ifinglafs infufed in a quart of brandy ; bung it up clofe three weeks; then bottle it off; put a lump of fugar into each bottle. 67. Wafer Biscuits. Take nine eggs beat, and one pound of loaf-fugar powdered, beat them well together till they be very white and (tiff; add half a puu.id of fine flour, and a few caraway feeds, and mix all very well; drop them on papers oiled with warm butter round them ; grate a little refined fugar over them, and fet thern in the oven : when they are half baked tjtke them off the papers with a long knife, and bend them on poles which have been warmed in the oven ; fet them in the oven again, bake them pretty crifp, and let them iland on the poles till they are cold. 6’8. Ginger-Bread for keeping. Take two pounds of dried flour, a pound and a half of treacle, one pound of five-penny fugar, half an ouucv of race ginger beat and lifted, a half-penny- worth of caraway leeds, and a large glafs of brandy ; mix all well together, make it into little cakes, and bake them on a dripping-pan : half an hour will bake them in a brilk oven. Thefe will keep years.222 69- Ginger Lozenges. Beat and fearce one ounce of race ginger, put one pound of loaf-fugar in a pan, with as much water as will wet it ; when this boils mix your ginger well in it, and boil it candy height; drop it in little cakes on a fieve, and keep them dry for ufe. 70. A Scalded Pudding. 1 akc four fpoonfuls of flour, pour upon it one pint of boiling milk, flirring it all the time that you pour on the milk ; when cold beat a little fait with four eggs, mix all well together ; one hour will boil it. This eats like bread pudding. You may add fruit. 71. A Scalded Pudding another way. Beat four eggs and a little fait, mix in as much flour as the eggs will wet ; when well beaten, pour in one pint of hot milk. One hour will boil it. This eats like cultard. 72. Sausages. Take a loin of mutton, cut and lined it fmall, fea- fon it to yourtalle with pepper, fait, a little nutmeg, and a little dried fage ; beat three eggs with a little water, and mix all well together; fo (ill the (kins for ufe. 73. Portable Soup. Take a leg of veal and an old cock, (kin the cock, and take all the fat from that and the veal, put to them twelve or fourteen quarts of water, a very little223 whole white pepper and mace, but no fait ; (you mull lldm your pot exceedingly well before you put in the fpices) let all thefe boil together till the meat is quite a mafh, the water wafted to about three pints or two quarts, and the liquor exceedingly ftrong ; when you think it is enough drain it into a {tone bowl through a pretty fine hair-fieve, and let it Hand all night, then clear off all the top and bottom as you do calf’s-foot jelly, and boil the pure part of the liquor till it be fo ftrong a jelly, that when it is cold, the fire will harden, and not melt it ; when you think it enough pour it into tea-cups, about two table fpoon- fuls in a cup ; let it ftand all night ; the next morn- ing turn out the little cakes upon a pewter difh, and fet them before the fire ; if they run you muft boil them higher; if they dry they are enough : you muft keep them in a paper bag, where there is a fire, as damp will diffolve them. N. B. The firft boiling {hould be in an iron pot; the fccond in a clean fcoured brafs pan. 74. Hasty Curds. Set on the fire one gallon of well water, and when it boils put in a little lalt ; in which mix well one quart of good cream, and eight eggs well beat; (if you add a fpoonful or two of four cream it will make them crack the fooner) let the pan ftand on the fire whilft the curds rife, then put them into a cloth over a fievc, tie and hang them up. When well drained they are ready forufe. 75. To dry Pears another •a:ay. Take (lone pears and pare them, leaving the ftalk on, lay them on a dripping-pan, and fet them in an224 aven till they are baked pretty foft j then prefs them with a fpoon, and lay them on a pewter diih, grate fome loaf-fugar very thick on them, and fct them before the fire, or in the fun to dry ; turn them, and grate fugar on the other fide, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. 76. To make the Gold H ater. 1 ake two quarts of the bell brandy, one pound of loaf-fugar, half an ounce of fpirits of faffron, half a dram of the oil of cloves, and a dram of alkermcs; put all thefe into a large bottle, (hake them well to- gether, then take four or five leaves of gold ; grind them with a little loaf-fugar, and put into it a little ambergris, Hop it clofe, and fet it iu a place moderate- ly warm for three or four days, then pour off the clear into bottles, and cork them fafi. down ; fo keep it for ufe. 77- A Calj's-Foot Pudding another n ag. Boil two calf’s feet, Hired them fmall with half a pound of beef-fuet^ take a ftale penny loat grated, half a pound of currants, half a nutmeg, a little mace, and four eggs well beaten, beat all thele very well to- gether, and put to them half a porringer ot cream ; let it boil one hour and a half, then take it out of the cloth, and Hick in a few blanched almonds. Make your fauce of thick butter, a glalsof white wine, and a little fugar. 78. To Candy Lemons or Oranges ano- ther nay. Lay the oranges in clear foft water for fix days,/hifting them every day, pare or grate the outfide off very thin ; to fix /kins put a pan full of water; let them boil till they be fo tender that a draw will go through them ; take half a pound of loaf-fugar, put to it as much water as will cover the /kins, givethem a boil up, and lee them lie in that five or fix days longer ; then fet them on the fire with the fyrup, and boil them till they be well hot through ; lay them on a fieve before the fire to dry; cut them in two, and take carefully out the infide, without breaking the rind ; wipe them very dry, and lay them on a fieve again ; put one pound of loaf-fugar into a pan, and as much water as will juft melt the fugar; let it over the fire, and let it fimmer eafily till it begins to be thick ; then put in the /kins one by one, and let them fimmer till your fugar be thin again ; keep them ft ill fimmering till the fugar (licks to them, and be of a candy-height ; then take them out with a fork, and lay them over a fieve before the fire. Ufe double-re- fined fugar. 79- To make Punch for keeping. 1 ake the parings of feven lemons, and as many oranges pared thin, deep them in a quart of brandy clofe corked, in a large berry bottle, for twenty-four hours ; then to fix quarts of water put two pounds of loaf-fugar clarified, let it boil a quarter of an hour and /kirn it ; let it (land till it is cold ; drain the brandy front the parings, and mix it and three quarts more with the fugar and water, and add the juice of the lemons and oranges ; put it m a ve/Tel proper for the quantity ; Hop it very clofe, and in three months* you may bottle it. Tt the lemons are large, only ufe fix. This will keep years.226 80. To Roast a Pig. Stick your pig juft above the breaft bone, run your knife to the heart, when it is dead put it in cold wa- ter for a few: minutes, then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceedingly fine, or its own blood, put your pig into a pale of fcalding water half a minute, take it out, lay it on a clean table, pull off the hair as quick as poflible, if it does not come clean off put it in again, when you have got it all clean off walh it in warm water, then in two or three cold waters, for fear the rofin (hould tafte; take off the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, take out all the entrails, put the liver, heart, and lights to the pettitoes, walh it well out of cold water, dry it ex- ceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up. and when you roaft it, put in a little Hired rage, a tea fpoonful of black pepper, two of fait, and a cruft of brown bread, fpit your pig, and few it up ; lay it down to a briik clear fire, with a pig plate hung in the middle of the fire, when your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, rub your pig often with it whilft it is roafting ; a large one will take an hour and a half: when your pig is a fine brown, and the fteam draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifp it; then take a (harp knife, cut off the head, and take off the collar, then take off the ears and jaw bone, fplit the jaw bone in two, when you have cut the pig down the back, which mufl be done before you draw the fpit out, then lay your jsig back to back on your difli, and the jaw on each lide, the ears on each (houlder, and the collar at the (boulder, and pour in your faucc. and ferve it up ; gamiih with a cruft of brown bread grated.227 81. To make Sauce for a Pig. Chop the brains a little, then put in a tea-cupful of white gravy with the gravy that runs out of the pig, a little bit of anchovy, mix near half a pound of butter, with as much flour as will thicken the gravy, a flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little ca- per liquor and fait, fliake it over the fire, and pour it into your difh ; fome like currants, boil a few and fend them in a tea faucer with a glafs of currant jelly in the middle of it. 82. A second xvay to make Pig Sauce. Cut all the outflde off a penny loaf, then cut it in- to very thin dices, put it into a faucepan of cold wa- ter, with an onion, a few pepper corns, and a little fait, boil it until it be a fine pulp, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, and two fpoon- fuls of thick cream, make it hot, and put it into a bafon. 83. To dress a Pig's Pettitoes. Take up the heart, liver, and lights, when they have boiled ten minutes, and fhred them pretty fmall, but let the feet boil till they are pretty tender, then take them out and fplit them ; thicken your gravy with flour and butter, put in your mincemeat, a flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and boil it a little ; beat the yolk of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, ,and a little grated nut- Inpg» Pul i'1 your pettitoes, fliake it over the fire, but do not let it boil ; lay fippcts round your difh, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them the fkin fide up, and fend them to the table.228 84. 'To bottle Gooseberries another way. Gather goofeberries when well grown, pick and put them into wide-necked bottles, then till them up with fpririg water, cork them, but not over hard, put them into a pan with cold water, and a little hay at the bottom and betwixt the bottles; coddle them very (lowly, and when near done keep looking at them, for if you let them boil they will break ; when enough put the corks harder in, and turn the bottle neck downward whilll cold, then roiin the’eorks, and keep them in a cool place for ufe. 8.5. To make a boiled Rice Puddirnr. CD Take three ounces of rice, give it a boil in water, drain it off, put to it a pint of new milk, boil it till it is pretty thick, take it up, and put to it two ounces of frefh butter, a noggin of cream, a noggin of white wine, a quarter of a pound of white fugar, a little nutmeg, and the yolks of fix eggs—boil it one hour. 86. Currant Jelly another way. Strip your currants when full ripe, to each pound of currants put three quarters of a pound of beaten fugar, fet them over a flow fire, and let them boil twenty minutes, ilrain it through a gauze iieve, and put it into pots for ufe.—To each pound of fruit add a quarter of a pound of fugar, let it boil fix or eight minutes, or until the fugar is diflblved. 87- -Minced Ties another way. ■ Boil one lemon whole till foft, chop it fine, pulp and all, take half a pound of apples, and the lame229 quantity of beef-fuet and raifins fhred fine, half a pound of currants, and half a pound of fugar—feafon it with mace, and mix the whole up with red port— when the pies ate made, put in each a tea fpoonful of brandy, and a little candied orange. 88. Tea or Sugar Cakes. Take a piece of butter about half the fize of an egg, melt it in an earthen difh before the fire, take one egg, beat it well and mix with the above, \$ith a quarter of a pound of lump fugar, beat and lifted, then take as much flour as will work it to a pafte, fo that you can roll it about the thicknefs of a crown piece, cut them out with a dredging-box lid, bake them on a dripping-pan well dredged with flour. They mult be pricked before they are put into the oven ; about five minutes will bake them. If you chufe you may put a few caraway feeds in them. 89- A Bachelors Pudding. Take four ounces of bread crumbs, four ounces of currants, four ounces of apples fhred, two ounces of iugar, three eggs, a little lemon-peel and cinnamon, it you like it ; boil it three hours—double the above quantity will make a large pudding, and five hours will boil it. If you chufe you may boil it in a melon mould. U230 90. How to prevent the disagreeable Taste in Milk and Butter, from Cows jed with Turnips. Take two ounces of faltpetre, and pour one quart of boiling water upon it, when cold bottle it for ufe ; one tea cupful put into ten or twelve quarts of milk when juft milked, will prevent -the take of turnips either in the milk or butter.I 331 A BILL OF FARE FOR Every Season in the Year. FOR JANUARY, First Course. p. T the Top Gravy Soup Remove, Fifh At the Bottom a Ham In the Middle ftewcd Oyftcrs. or Brawn. For the Four Corners. A Fricaffte of Rabbits, Scotch Collops, boiled Chickens, Calf-Foot Pie, or Oy Iter Loaves. Second Course. At the Top Wild Ducks At the Bottom a Turkey In the Middle Jellies or Lemon Poflet. U 2A Bill of Fare For the Four Corners. Lobfters and Tarts, Cream Curds, Hewed Pears or preferved Quinces. FOR FEBRUARY. First Course. At the Top a Soup, remove At the Bottom Salmon or Hewed Bread of Veal. For the Four Corners. A Couple of Fowls with Oyfter Sauce, Pudding, Mutton Cutlets, a Fricaffeeof Pigs’ Ears. Second Course. At the Top Partridges At the Bottom a Couple of Ducks. For the Four Corners. Stewed Apples, preferved Quinces, Cullards, Al- mond Cheefe-Cakes In the Middle Jellies. FOR MARCH. First Course. At the Top a boiled Turkey, with Oyflcr Sauce At the Bottom a Couple of road Tongues or read Beef In the Middle Pickles Two Side-dilhes, a Pigeon Pie and a Calf-Head Halh. For the Four Corners. Stewed Crab or Oyfters, Hunter’s Pudding, a brown Fricaflee, Hewed Eels, or broiled Whitings.For every Season in the Year. Second Course. •» \ At the Top Woodcocks or Wild Ducks At the Bottom Pig or Hare In the Middle Jellies or Sweetmeats. For the Four Corners. Rafpberry Cream, Tarts, ftewed Apples, and pre- ferred Apricots. FOR APRIL. First Course. At the Top ftewed Fillet of Veal At the Bottom a roall Leg of Mutton Two Side-difhes, Salt-Fifh and BeefSteaks In the Middle a Planter's" Pudding. Second Course. At the Top roait Chickens and Afparagus At the Bottom Ducks In ike Middle preferved Oranges. For the Four Corners?' Damfin Pie, Cream Curds, Lobfter, and cold .Pot. FOIL MAY. First Course. At the Top ftewed Carp or Tench At the Bottom a itcweil Rump of Beef In the Middle a Sallad. For the Four Corners. A FneaiTee of LTipes, boiled Chickens, a Pud- ding, Olives of Veal. U 3A Bill of Fare Second Course. At the Top Rabbits or Turkey Poults At the Bottom green Goofe or young Ducks. For the Four Corners. Lemon Cream, Quince Cream, Tarts, Almond Cuftards In the Middle Jellies. FOR JUNE. First Course. At the Top roaft Pike At the Bottom Scotch Collops In the Middle Hewed Crab. For the Four Corners. Boiled Chickens, Quaking Pudding, roaft Tongue, with Venifon Sauce, Beans and Bacon. Second Course. At the Top a Turkey At the Bottom Ducks or Rabbits In the Middle Strawberries Two Side dirties, roalt Lobfter and Peas. For the Four Cornets. Green Codlins, Apricot Cultards, Sweetmeat- Tarts, preferved Damlins, or Flummery. FOR JULY. First Course. At the Top green Peas Soup, remove, ftewed Bread of Veal whiteFor every Season in the Year. I At the Bottom a Haunch of Venifon In the Middle a Pudding Two Side-difhes, a Dilh of Filh, and a FricafTeo of Rabbits. Second Course. At the Top Partridges or Pheafants At the Bottom Ducks or Turkey In the Middle a Dilh of Fruit. For the Four Corners. Solomon Gundy, Lobfter, Tarts, Chocolate Cream. FOR AUGUST. First Course. At the Top Filh At the Bottom Venifon Pally In the Middle Herb Dumplings. For the Four Corners. Fricafiee of Rabbits, Hewed Pigeons, boiled Chick- ens, Fricaffee of Veal Sweetbreads with Artichoke Bottoms. Second Course. At the Top Pheafants or Partridges At the Bottom Wild Ducks or Teal In the Middle Jellies or Syllabubs. ' For the Four Corners. Preferved Apricots, Almond Checfe-Cakes, Cuf* tards and Sturgeon. %A Bill of Fare FOR SEPTEMBER. First Course. At the Top Collared Calf-head, with dewed Pa- lates, Veal Sweetbreads, and forced-meat Balls At the Bottom Udder and Tongue, or a Haunch of Venifon In the Middle an Amblet of Cockles, or rcafted Lobfter Two Side-diflies, Pigeon Pie, and boiled Chickens. Second Course. At the Top a road Pheafant At the Bottom a Turkey. Fur the Four Corners. Partridges, Artichoke Bottoms fried, Oyder Loaves and Teal. FOR OCTOBER. First Course. At the Top dewed Tench and Cod’s Head At the Bottom road Pork or a Goofe Two Side-difhes, road Filh, and boiled Fowl and Bacon. For the Four Corners. Jugged Pigeons, Mutton Collops, Beef Rolls, and Veal Sweetbreads fricaflecd In the Middle, minced Pies or Oyder Loaves. Second Course. At the Top Wild Fowl At the Bottom a HareFor every Season in the Year. In the Middle Jellies Two Side-difhes, roafted Lobfler and fried Cream. For the Four Cornets. Preferved Quinces, or dewed Pears, Sturgeon, cold Tongue, and Orange Cheefe-Cakes. FOR NOVEMBER. First Course. At the Top a Difh of Fifh At the Bottom a Turkey Pie Two Side-difhes, Scotch Cpllops, and boiled Tongue with Sprouts In the Middle fcalloped Oyllers. Second Course. At the Top a Difh of Wild Fowl At the Bottom road Lobller In the Middle Lemon Cream. For the Four Corners. Tarts, Curds, Apricots, arid Solomon Gundy. FOR DECEMBER. First Course. At the Top boiled Fowls Two Side-difhes, Bacon and Greens, and a Difh of Scotch Collops In the Middle minced Pies or Pudding. Second Course. At the Top a Turkey In the Middle hot Apple-Pie.A Bill of Fare For the Four Corners. Cuftard, Rafpberry Cream, cold Pot and Crabs At the Bottom roaft Beef. A SUPPER FOR JANUARY. At the Top a Difliof Pl«m Gruel Remove, boiled Fowls At the Bottom a Difli of Scotch Collops In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. .Lobller, Solomon Gundy, Cuftard, Tarts. FOR FEBRUARY. At the Top a Difli of Fifli Remove, a Couple of roafted Fowls At the Bottom Wild Ducks. For the Four Corners. Collared Pig, Cheefe-Cakes, Hewed Apples and Curds In the Middle hot minced Pies, FOR MARCH. At the Top a Sack Pofiet Remove, a Couple of Ducks At the Bottom a boiled Turkey, with Oyfler Sauce In the Middle Lemon Poflet Two Side diflics, roalled Lobfter, Oyfldr Pie.For every Season in the Year. For the Four Corners. Almond CuHards, Flummery, Cheefe-Cakes, and Hewed Apples. FOR APRIL. At the Top boiled Chickens At the Bottom a Breaft of Veal In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Orange Pudding, Ouflards, Tarts and Hewed Oyfters. FOR MAY. At the Top a Difh of Filh At the Bottom Lamb or Mutton Steaks In the Middle Lemon Cream or Jellies Two Side-diihes, Tarts, Rafpberry Cream. For the Four Corners. Veal Sweetbreads, Hewed Spinage, with poached Eggs and Bacon, OyHers in fcallop Shells, boiled Chickens. FOR JUNE. At the Top boiled Chickens At the Bottom a Tongue In the Middle Lemon Poflet. For the Four Corners. Cream Curds or CuHards, potted Ducks, Tarts, Lobfters, Artichokes or Peas. FOR JULY. At the Top Scotch CollopsA Bill of Fare At tlie Bottom road Chickens In the Middle ltewed Mufhrooms. For the Four Corners. Cuftards, Lobfters, fplit Tongue, and Solomon Gundy. FOR AUGUST. At the Top hewed Bread of Veal At the Bottom road Turkey In the Middle Pickles or Fruit. For the Four Corners. Cheefe-Cakes and Flummery, preferved Apricots, preferved Quinces. FOR SEPTEMBER. At the Top boiled Chickens At the Bottom a carbonaded Bread of Mutton, with Caper Sauce In the Middle Oyders in feallop Shells, or dewed Oyders Two Side-didies, hot Apple-Pie and Cudard. FOR OCTOBER. At the Top Rice Gruel Remove, a Couple of Ducks At the Bottom a boiled Turkey, with Oyfler Sauce In the Middle Jellies. For the Four Corners. Lobder or Crab, Black Caps, Cudard or Cream, Tarts or collared Pig.For every Season in the Year. FOR NOVEMBER. At the Top Fifh At the Bottom Ducks or Teal In the Middle Oyfter Loaves Remove, a Dilh of Fruit Two Side-dilhes, mince Pies, Mutton Steaks with Mufhrooms and Balls. FOR DECEMBER. At the Top boiled Chickens At the Bottom, a Dilh of Scotch Collops or Veal Cutlets In the Middle Brawn Remove, Tarts. For the Four Corners. Boiled Whitings or fried Soles, new College Pud- dings, Bologna Saufages, Scotch Cuftard. XDINNER IN SUMMER. 1 Cod’s Head or Salmon 2 Boiled Chickens 3 A fine Pudding, or road Lobder 4 Beans and Bacon 5 Stewed Bread of Veal.X 2 SECOND COURSE, 1 I wo young Turkeys or Ducklings 2 Stewed Apples 3 Cnllards 4 Jellies or Lemon Pullet 5 Tarts 6 Preferred Damfins 7 Green Goofe or Young Rabbits.A SUPPER IN SUMMER. 1 Boiled Chickens 2 Preferved Oranges or Apricots 3 Flummery 4 Afparagus 5 Lemon PolTet 6 Road Lobfter 7 Stewed Apples 8 Almond Chcefe-Cakes 9 Lamb.DINNER IN WINTER, X 3 z Scotch Collops 3 Boiled Chickens 4 Stewed Oyflers or roafted Lobfler 5 A Hunter's Pudding 6 Roafled Tongue 7 A Ham, or Roaft Beef. REMOVE. i Fifh.A DINNER IN SUMMER.A DINNER IN SUMMER. 1 Craw-Fifh Soup 2 Moor-Game 3 A Granade 4 Apples ftewed green 5 Boiled Partridges 6 Cherries 7 Stew ed Sweetbreads and Palates 8 Jellies or Pine-apples 9 Roaft Teal 10 Apricots 11 Artichokes 12 Sweetmeat Tarts 13 Fried tioals 14 Turkey Poult roalled and larded Haunch of Vcnifon.A GRAND TABLE IN WINTER. 1 Vermicelli Soup 2 Sweet Patties 3 A Fricaflee of Beall Patties 4 Stewed Crab 5 Olives of Veal 6 Preferred Dam fins 7 Preferved Oranges 8 Marronaded Pigeons 9 A boiled Turkey with Oyfter Sauce jo Cream Curds 11 A Pyramid of dried Sweetmeats 12 Flummery 13 Ham 14 A white Fricaffee of Chickens 15 Preferved Apricots 16 Preferved Quinces 17 A brown Fricaffee of Rabbits 18 A FricafTee of Veal Sweetmeats 19 Minced Pies 20 Oylter Loaves 21 Haunch of Venifon, or roafl Beef. Remove. Carp with Pheafants. Remove. Grapes, Remove. Collared Beef. Remove. Cheele-Cakes. Remove. Qriails. Remote. Teal. Remove. Two roafted Lobflers. Remove. Woodcocks or Par- tridges. Remove. Artichoke or Peas. Remove. Snipes. Remove. Tarts. Remove. Collared Pig. Remove. Fruit. Remove. Wild Ducks. 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 14 17 18 *9 20 21INDEX Thofe marked (thus*) are in the SUPPLE. MENT. _ i iji i93 206 A Page ^LMONi) Poflet to make Cakes Cheeie-Cakes * another way Puffs 97 Butter 117 * another way 208 Flummery 118 * Bifcuits 207 Apple Dumplings 79 , to Hew 120 another way 121 Artichoke Bottoms to fry 119 to fricaffee 120 to dry )20 Apricot Pudding to make 127 * Jumballs 208 Cuftard 127 or Peach Chips 128 * to preferve 148 to make Marmalade 149 to dry 160 do. like Prunellas 182 to preferve green 184 Page another way 186 Ale Orange to make 134 * bad into good ft rot) g Beer 216 Poffet to make 187 Afparagus, or green Peas to keep 153 Angelica to candy 158 B JgEEF, brifleet to (lew 13 Rump, do. 14 Olives, to make 14 rolls 60 rump to ragout 47 collared to eat cold 44 Dutch to make 72 to pot 46 (leaks to fry 15 another way 15 Brain Cakes to make 24 Black Caps 11 7 Brandy Orange 135 Lemon , 144 * another way 212 black Cherry 144 Rafpbcrry 143INDEX. Page Brandy Ratafia 144 another way 212 Broccoli, to boil 125 Beall Kidney, to road 129 Beans Kidney, to keep 158 Button Mulhrooms to pic- kle 172 Barberries to keep inftead of preferring 153 * Cakes 213 * Drops 213 to pickle 176 to preferve for Tarts 152 to keep all the year >5' Barley Sugar to make 176 * Black Paper to make for drawing Patterns 216 Berries to bottle another way 151 C £ABBAGE red to pic- kle 175 Cake Caraway to make 103 Rich white plum 2 11 * Icing for 211 great JOi Icing for it 92 Page : Bifcuit to make 108 Rafpberry 107 Portugal 109 Orange 181 Shrewfbury 104 Bath 210 Gingerbread 110 Seed t°5 Queen 107 King 106 Angelica 106 Oatmeal 210 Breakfall 106 fine 104 to keep all the year 104 Plum 102 Little Plum 200 Plum another waviog do. ordinary IOC ’s Head collared to eat hot 24 to eat cold 27 ha Ihed J 2c white 26 Pie of, to make 5 <5 another way 130 to ragout 27 to roall to eat like . PiS 27 feet to fricaf. white 52 to fry in butter 53INDEX. Page Calf’s feet to fry in eggs 55 to make mince pies of 55 to make a pie of 57 Calf’s foot jelly, to make ”3 Flummery 118 * Char to pot 202 Catchup to make 172 * Walnut 204 * fine 204 Cheefe-CJakes 85 Lemon 100 common 87 without currants 87 Cheefe Slipcoat 88 * fine llufh 219 Bullies 161 Cream 88 Cherries to preferve for drying 157 to preferve 157 to dry 189 Cauliflower to pickle white *74 another way 175. Chickens to fiicaffec white 33: do. brown 34 furprife 34 to boil 34 * Pie hot 199 Page Collops Scotch, to make , . 23 do. white 32 another way 191 minced, to make I91 Cod’s Head to drefs 91 Zoons 99 Cockles to pickle 166 Ambkt of, to make • , - 73 Cordial W ater of Cowflips, to make 145 Cowflip Syrup 144 Cracknels 108 Cream Lemon 110 to make yellow 114 another way 114 Cream Orange 113 Quince 180 any preferved Fruit 180 * burnt 209 to fry, to eat hot 112 Chocolate, to make 110 Goofcberry 126 Apple J11 Curds 111 Rice or Almond 112 Cucumbers diced to pickle 163 to pickle 169INDEX. 1 Page Cucumbers to make mango of 173 to make pickle for *74 to ftew 130 to fry for mutton fauce 70 Currant berries to pickle 153 to preferve in bunches l59 * to preferve whole 215 to make jelly of 148 * Curds hafty to make 223 Cuftard Almond Sago Scotch, to eat Page Dumplings herb, to make 115 hot 122 *39 Cyder, to make D TAAMSINS to preferve ^ I52 for tarts to keep to bottle Drops Ratafia, to Lemon Ducks, to boil to ftew to ftew whole 79 82 79 89 93 93 white 43 42 43 54 170 for 170 plain fruit Apple E J^ELS t0 collar to ftew to fpitchcock Eggs to fricaffee do. brown to ftew in gravy pie, to make Elder buds to pickle to make pickle F P’OWL, to force r* Feet Fritters Fruit, to make 74 Apple 76 Oatmeal 79 Fruit to preferve green f52 155 153 do. all the year 157 146 French Bread, to make 179 make* another way 219 119 G 14' Q.HERKINS to pickle 33 174 33 Gilliflowers, do. 162 49* Ginger to candy 214 Y 70 2°3INDEX. Page * Ginger Lozenges to make 222 Gingerbread white 100 * York 209 * in little tins 210 red xox another way 179 * for keeping 221 Goofeberry cakes 161 to bottle 146 another way 15* to preferve 150 do. red 151 * Grapes to preferve all Winter 212 * Granade >97 * another way 212 Gruel Sago 129 Plum 122 Rice 122 Gofer Wafers to make 86 H XJAMS or tongues to 11 fait +S Hare, to Hew 29 to pot 49 to ju6 3° to road with a pud- ding in the belly 30 Hedgehogs cupid to make 163 Almond 163 Herrings to boil Page 9+ to fry 9+ to pickle 95 to keep all the year 96 tel 90 Hotch poteh, to mal J TAM cherry, to make J Bullies *57 162 * Rafpberry 219 Dam fins 161 * Jelly brown >97 * currant *>5 Jumballs 128 another way 100 L T A MB leg of boiled. with loin fried 28 * Larks in Jelly 204 Lamb with chickens 28 fricaffee white 28 fricalfee brown 29 Lobller or crab to roait to butter 63 62 * Lobllcr A’L’Italiennc 2^3 Leatch, to make 124 Loaves Oyiler 80 M J^fACAROONS to make I07INDEX Page *53 198 137 Mango of codlins * Melon do. Mead ftrong another way * another way Milk mulled, a difh of 123 Mulberries, to preferve Page Nafturtium buds to pickle 183 O 138 to pickle 170 2 18 whole Mufcles, to pickle Mufhrooms, to pot to flew to pickle another way another way to fry powder to make Mutton Hewed fillet of Ihoulder forced bread to collar another way to carbonade chine roaded, celery chops, to make leg forced cutlets French deaks to fry artificial Venifon, make 20 leg of, to fait to eat like ham 48 N ^"EAT’S Tongue pie, to make 51 181 167 97 97 172 171 186 187 185 16 16 *7 18 with 18 18 19 *9 20 to Orange chips to pre- ferve to put in glafles 146, Orange or Lemon to pre- ferve 147 chips another way 185 marmalade to make r 155 to preferve whole 160 * to candy whole 213 Tarts to make 82 Butter to make 220. Oyders Scotch, to make 124 to dew to lard to fry to feallop to pickle Ox Lips to drefs P pALLETS dewed Pancakes, clare Rice * Partridges to pot * another way Parfnips to fry, to like Trout 95 200 95 96 169 201 40 78 74 202 202 look u6INDEX. Page Parfnips to fry another way 127 * Poverauc, to make 201 Palle to make for a ftand- ing Pie 85 for a dilh Pie 85 for Tarts 83 another way' 84 another way 84 for Venifon Pally 85 of Pippins, white 154 of do. green 154 of do. red 154 Patties favoury, to make54 fweet 60 Pears to dry 159 * another way 223 or Pippins to dry without Sugar 180 Pigeons to make a Palps toon of to Hew to pot boiled with fricafl'et Plums to preferve Plum porridge, to rig fa uce 40 mirranaded 39 to jug 3* to pickle 5* to broil whole 40 Royal, to make 5° to collar 61 cars to fries (Tee 41 like lamb in winter Page Pig’s Head rolled to eat like brawn 53 Pike to eat like burgeon 88 to (lew 90 to roaft with a pud- ding in the belly 91 182 make 69 Pork to pickle 52 Pofl'et fack, to make 116 another >vay 188 to make froth for 188 Lemon 116 Potatoe crabs to pickle t72 Pudding black, to make 75 cuftard 178 orange 66 another way 67 another way 67 another way 67 another way Lemon 206 Oatmeal 130 Almond 205 another way 206 Apple 66 ground rice 65 goofeberry 81 29 College 177 1 70 39 40INDEX. Pudding, Potatoe * another way carrot another way 207 quaking, to make 63 quaking, another way quaking do. do. common Sago another way pearl barley calf’s foot hunting another way liver for hare 31 and herb white Pot Page 66 206 65 207 way curd white in Heins marrow bread cauliflower 63 73 64 220 i83 64 63 207 7» 77 77 another 207 87 75 65 77 165 Pie, Turbot head Page 81 herring 60 orange 68 ham 51 woodcock 57 fweet chicken 54 favoury, do. 59 fweet veal 58 caudle for do. 82 hare 5° another way 50 minced 187 another way 58 oylter 62 codlin 165 Pickle for Salmon 62 CL * fcalded, to make 222 Punch, to make 145 another way 177 * for keeping 225 acid, to make 146 milk, to make 145 another way 145 Purflain to pickle 177 Pie richTurkey,tomake37 Eel 81 QUIDANNY to make 150 Quinces to preferve 166 do. another way 192 cream, to make 180 to make white 156 marmalade, do. 150 R ABB ITS to fricaflee brown 31 do. white 31 pulled 3 j drefled, to look like moor-gaine 32 Rafpberry and Strawberry fool to make 71INDEX. g ALMON, to collar 6 * Salmon en Maigre 203 to pot 164 Sprouts Savoy to boil 125 cabbage do. 126 Sauce for rump of beef 47 for neck of veal 28 for Turkey another way for boiled Rabbits 47 for Pike 90 for boiled Salmon or Turbot 93 forHaddockorCod93 for Salmon or Turbot 98 for tame Ducks 117 Sauce for green Goofe 118 another way for Chickens Page Page * Soup portable 222: * white or almond 205- Scotch 12: do. without water 13 Saufages Bologna, to make 72 * Sheep’s Rumps with, rice 199 1 * Tongues broiled 200 36;Shrimps to pickle 167 36|Shrub Orange 137 for Tongues O for Cod’s Head another way ' for flefh or fifh Soup Vermicelli Hare 10 Cucumber 9 green Peas 10 Onion 11 of Peas in^Winter 11 . in Lent 12 Cfaw-Fifh 12 Solomon Gundy to eat in Lent 99 another way 99 Smelts to pot 89 to pickle 90 Spinage Hewed with eggs 119 Toafts, to make 129 * Stoughton, tomake22o Sturgeon artificial,to make 96 how to order 189 how to make pickle for 190 iySjSugar to know when at 9 candy height 149 118 35 55 92 92 Syllabubs whipped to make 116 Syrup of Gilliflowers, to make 162 Syrup of Mulberries 143 of Violets 165 * of Poppies 215INDEX. Page Stock to make for Hart- ffiorn Jelly 165 Shell Pafte 83 Stuffing for Bead; Kidney 129 T 'T'ANSEY, to make A 126 another way 83 another way 74 boiled 73 Tarts marrow, to make 80 tranfparent 83 fweetmeats 82 Toads fried, to make 178 longues co road: 55 to pot 45 Sheep or Hog to broil •52 Tripes to fricadee 41 to eat like chickens 42 Trout or other fiffi to fry 1 98 Tench or Carp to dew 92 * Turtle Mock 201 Turkey to boil 35 to road 36 to pot 38 A la Daube 37 V yEAL Bread of to brown ragout 20 do. hcrrico 21 to toll 21 Page Veal to dew 22 to dew fillet 22 Bread of to roll to eat cold 45 to road favoury 5 r to make favoury 178 * Couley 200 Knuckle to boil with Rice 49 Veal Sweetbreads to fri- caffee 42 Cutlets to make 23 another way 24 another way 24 Venifon to pot 45 Haunch of, to road 59 Vinegar to make of Goofe 156 156 184 192 216 berries another way another way another way another way W ALNUTS, to pickle green 168 do. black 168 to make pickle fori 68 do. white 175 * Wafer bifeuits, to make 221 * Water the gold, to make 224 Wigs, to make 107INDEX. Page Wild fowls to pot 46 Wine elder, to make 131 do. Flower 183 Goofeberry 182 of ripe Goofeberries Balm 132 * Green Goofeberries Ginger Raifin Birch another way white Currant Mulberry 217 217 133 J33 136 *34 142 Page Wine Orange 135 another way 136 Blackberry 143 Cowllip 135 another way 139 another way 218 another way 220 Apricot 137 Red Currant 140 another way 142 Cherry 140 another way 140 fours to prcferve 214 Woodcock to roaft 56 Supplement to the Index. Page Calf’s foot pudding 224 Candy oranges or lemons whole 224 Goofeberries to bottle 228 Milk cured from the talte of turnips 230 Pig to roalt 226 pettitoes to drefs 227 Sauce for a Pig 227 another way 227 Page Saufages 222 Rice pudding to boil 22S pudding, bachelor’s 229 Jelly currant, another way 228 Cakes, fugar for lea 229 Pies minced another way- 228 s ■J FINIS. PRINTED BV U, MOZLEY, GAINSBOROUGH.