The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRA Classmark: wfs A M 3 0106 01123 4472Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21532783«FOR THE USE OF V ,-v > Jfm BY A LABY.~ MANCHESTER* PUBLISHED MY THOMAS JOHNSONA NEW SYSTEM I OP DOMESTIC COOKERY; FORMED UPON PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY, AND ADAPTED TO THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. BY A iAUY, (MRS. RUNDELL.) -C' " WITH THE ADDITION OF MANY* STEW RCEEIPT8, AND EMBELLISHED WITH E ,VG R A V I N*G S , MANCHESTER: PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THOMAS JOHNSON, LIVESEY STREET. MDCOCXLVIII.* k DVEBTISEME NT. As the following directions were intended for the conduct of the families of the authoress own daughters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good figure with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxury, such as es- senceofham,aud that wasteful expenditure of large quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly con- tributes to keep up the price, and is uo less injurious to those who eat, than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many receipts are giveu for things which beiugin daily use, the mode of preparing them may be supposed too well known to require a place in a cookery-book ; yet how rarely do we meet with fine melted butter, good toast-and-water or well made coffee. She makes no apology for minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others unnoticed , because she does not write for professed cooks. This little work would have been a treasure to herself when she first set out in life, and she therefore hopes it may prove useful t.o others. In that expectation it is gmen to the Public; and as she will receive from it no emolument, so she trusts it will escape without censure.»MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS, FOR THE USB OP THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who best aoiuitth mselvcs of the duties which their station requires. Iildeed, this line of conduct is uc.r a matter of choice hut of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of ourchar- acter as rational beings. In the variety of fee.ale acquirements, though domestic occupations «; md not so high in esteem ns they formerly did, yet when neglected, they produce much human mis', ery There vis a time when ladies knew nothing •y/n'l theirown fatuiiy concerns.: but in the present day there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these extreme's should be avoided : hut is there no way to uni'e in the female character, cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness I Happily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possible. Instances may he found of ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts of their house-steward ; and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husband's income which falls under their own inspection, avoid the in'on- veniences of embarrassed circumstances. How much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy 1 There ought to be a material differ- ence in the degree of care which a person of a large and independent estate bestow son money-concerns and that of a person of confined circumstances : yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The custom of the times tends in some measure to abolish the distinctions of rank ; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all ; blit though the leisure of the higher may be well de- voted to different accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, would better secure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We sometimes bring np children in a manner calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which it i:s likely they will actually possess ; and it is in all cases worth the while of parents' to consider whe- ther the expectation or hope of raising their offspiDg above their own situation be well founded.!TS< ELLASEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR , ,r .1,. t,;„Vinrpl»*iie« • but if two or three dishes are well'server with the usi.;d sauces. the tabic linen clean, the smiisideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be •it h-iud the expectation of the husband and friend will be Unified because no irregularity of domestic a ran gem eat \vill disturb the social intercourse. The same observation ho da good on a larger wale. In all situations of hfe. the entertainment should be no less suited to the station than fothe fortune of the entertainer, and to the number art ’■“The'rn!ahnoerno'f carving is not only a very necessary bruicb of information, to enable a young lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable different < in the e msumptionof a family : and though in large p - ties she is so much assisted ns to render this kno apparently of less consequence, yet she mufti at bmesfee the deficiency: and should not. fail to acquaint here, with an attainment, the advantage of which w evident C Imfeeth as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than proba- ble that before the end of this country, great attention to •me ts may he again the mode, as it was in the commerce- ment oi the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to ' e able »o help half a dozen persons decently from a , ,ce tongue, or l sirloin of beef: and the dish goes aw v with tfie appearance of having been knawedhy nogs. liiZdaughters if the family we-e to take the head of the table und; r the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duti.-s with grace, in the aroe easy manner as an cailv practice in other domestic affairs; gradually Ids them for iheirown future houses. Habit alone can make g: d cart- ers : but some principal directions are her.'alter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress ol a fatnilv should always 1 member that the welfare and good management of the li-^use depend on the eve of the superior; and consequent! that nothing is too trilling fox her nonce, - hereby waste may be avoided; and this attention is of more importance now that the pr ■ e of every necessary of life is increased to an enormous ,]Pff ee'lady |ias neTPr ^(;Pn accustomed, while single, to think of family at rangement, lm her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it. she may consult others who are more experienced, and acquaint liersell mti he ne- cessary quantities of the several articles oi favn.ly •. vuen- ditnre, in proportion to the number it consists ol. .ne proper prices to pay. Sc. &c. A minute account of the anuual income, and the time?THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XI w ' i'TK* * O r.r payment should ho taken in writ::,-. ; likewise an es- tim .uf the supposed amount of each article of expense ; ami those who ar early accustomed to calculations on domestic article' will acquire so accurate a knowledge of '■.hat, their establishment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, with- out acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few bronchos of female education ar< so Ireful, as great readiness at figures. Accounts .mould be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted l bp entered; a d if balanced every week and month. the income and outgoings v ill be ascertained with facilii . end thei- proportions to each other be duly observed. Some people fix ou stated sums to be appropriated to each different ar- ticle, and keep tl)P nloney in separate purses, r.s house, clothes, pocket, education of children, &-Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain mode should be adopt- ed, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortun- at ly ignorant of the slate of their husband's income; and others are on!v made acquainted with it, when - ome spec- ulative project, or profitable transaction leads tbem to make a false estimate of what can he afforded ; and it too often happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squander money in ways that they would even wish to forget: whenas marriage should be'a state of i» i fusi and perfect confidence, and similarity of pursuits which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel ns wives, that it is :i fair inference there would he few extravagant ones, were they consulted bv their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual i nterests of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages, many families have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs , and though rn these occasions ti c women were blamed, it has afterwards ap- peared that they never wt re allowed a voice of inquiry, or suffered to reason upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to tin Tnpru‘iy of female management, as to the know- led.:" an activity of l He 1 ther. The lady of a general officer observed to her man cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Home ex- cuse was offered;—to which she replied “ Such is the sum I have I "died to house-keeping: should it be ex- eeedul one week, the next must, repay it. TIip generalMISCELLANEOUS observations for Wll „ill have no public Jay this week.” The fault was never reSla‘ch;s *• Family Book-keeper” is a very n*efu» 'vovl; and saves much trouble; the various articles of expense bein' priced, with a column for every day in the year. » that atone view the amount of expenditure on each, ,ni^SoV“.C&teSldtoV •» -chthiv.?S as come to^ In some articles a discount of five per cent, isallow- «d for ready money in London, a nd other large eiti . , those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the ’dea of bi ying cheap, many go to new sh'>P», hut !t U Saf- >st to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods bv under-selling . . . To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them 'reallv. besides that a higher price must be paid : and in Pong bills, aitides never bought are often charged. 1 r- haps the irregularity and failure o. payment may ha e inn 'h evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest. . . , _ , Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money af- fairs will be known with esse; for it i delay of paymen that occasions confusion. A common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, snd other observations, as are givenby sensi- ble experienced people. Want of attention to what is ad- vised, or supposing things too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on neces- sary subjects, among those who are not backward in lrtvol- °UIt i- very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, andi ot the best times as well as places of purchasing them, blie should also he acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute those that aTe most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, but winch are more codiy. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase as bargains, what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would re- main foT other purposes. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put oft'a larger quantity of goods, by assurances that they arc advancing in price ; aud many who supply fancy articles aTe so successful in persuasion, that pur- chasers not unfrequently go far beyond the’r origins, iu-xiii THF. MISTRESS Of A FAMILY. t^ntiou, even to their own future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly;'such as paper, soap, and candies. Of these more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted, foT people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances; tut it is presumed that a judicious.arrangement according to them, will be found equally advantageous to all. The ir,inutile of management must he regulated by every one’s fortune and rank. Some ladies, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out. once in a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household arti- cles, as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, reserving for their own key the large stock of things;usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should,’(here be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and tare versa. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignor- ance of their employers’; and if th y are, their services will not compensate for want, of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maid in the capacity of house-keeper ; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than stran- gers, become very valuable servants. To such, the e;ou- omical observations in this work<will be as useful ns the cookery; and it is recommecdable in them to be strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strictlaccount. Some part of every person’s fortune should lie devotrd to charity; by whicn, “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, whileshekhatis foolish (i e. lends noth- ing to the Lord.) pulls it down with her hands. ” No one can complain of the want ofgifts to the poor in this land : —but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, ami such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some bints for preparing the above are given. By goo< hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in tne morning, there will be more tin c to execute them; and servants, by doing their work with ease, v/ill V More equal to it, anil fewer will be necessary.miscellaneous observations foe xiv It is worthy of no1;66 tha*^^eve/v^Uhig*^* kept in reduced, and much time saved, m mded when?he nature of ^he accident'wUl allow, as soon as bro- kU the economy?f time was affairs transacted before amuseme nts „reat i^WS^’WSSa. S,*» «*« ~ -U« •( ■«•;»'* JS5s#\?ftfA«5 are to execute orders * V^Wea inuf&J service.; to be treraely cftTe.ul whom . * . i.. receiver, ssss^nss affiS£n£»: SSS|tM M.snieionsofsu U faults, is prevailed upon by false pity, orentmty. to slirhim into another place. There are however some who are unfortunately capricious, a.,d often refle to Ki^e a character because they are displeased that aservant U-aves their service : but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery,servant-* having no inhentame. and depending on theirfair name for employment. To reft’St countenance to the evil, and to encourage the M>od servan^are actions due to society at large; and such as are honest, frugal, and atlentive to their duties, should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit and inspire servants with real to acquit themselves. It may be proper to remark, that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station sooner or later, even Thn a-vtmvacant and idle in servitude, are own luture wenaTe bn * and the attendant punishment, coroe home when tin y have children of their own ; and sometime* much soone* They " ill see their own folly and wickedness perpetua l dTHE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XV in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better ■ban the example and instruction given by themselves. It was tlie observation of a sensible anil experienced woman, that she couidalways read the fate of herservants •who married : those who had been faithful and industrious in her service, continued there good habits in fneirown families, and became Tespectabk- members of th? com- munity ;—those who were the contrary, never were suc- cessful, and not uufrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the country. A bill of pare Is and receipt should be required, even if the money tie paid at the time of purchase ; and, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one's hon- esty, vnd perhaps mistakes have been unintentional, yet it is prudent, to weigh meat, sugars, dec. when brought in, and '■ompare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to end the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examided when the weekly bill shell be delivered, Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company. if servants are required to prepare the table and Sideboard in similar order daily. All things iiiely to he wanted should be in readiness; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry; spices pounded, and kej.i ia very small bottles closely corked ; not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be poumleJ at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served (and in every house some preparation i9 necessary for accidental visitors) care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either: a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and if duly managed, will be dtended with little expense and much conveniene. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which when returned will show the number to be pai i for ; as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. 'Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a bonk for entering the dates' which w ’l not only serve to prevent overcharges, out will show the whole year’s con- sumption at one view.XVI MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR An inventory of furniture, linen, and china, should he ™hn wish for trifle-dishes, tmnersianus, <vl. “ v*" - ?s “ not placed near the more beautiful articles. __ t Tim price of starch depends upon mat o. n°uj > . ■will keen eoodin a drv warm room tor some years , tni rt fore when^read is cheap it may be bought to advantage, ^Si'oAirbetngan article of considerable expense in all families the put chase demands particular attention. lh<j is'ritS'erence even^nthe^degre^^fawitness, 'The whin e^tssss Kssis* Ata .s; wines and sweetmeats, hut do well for common purposes. K good of the'r kind. To prepare white sugar pounded, rolling if with a bottle, and silling, wastes less than amoi- * ^Cardies made in cool weather are best; and wVmntherr and that of soap, which rise and fall toge.ner, is Ukelv to be higher, it will be prudent to lay m the stock ofhyoth.Tbis information the chandler can aw ays give - they are better for keeping eight ot ten months, arid wdfnot miurefor two years, lfproperh-pmced in the cool and there aie few articles that better deserve care in buy - ing, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the sire of lhPap“uyby keeping. Improves in quality : and if bought by hall or whole reams from large dealers will Vie much cheapen: ,n purchased by the quire. The surprising tn- 7'reas. of the price of this article may be accounted foi ny the additional duties, and a iurgttr consumption, b sides meTUE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. X\ 11 monopoly of rags: of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causeing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as w ell as economical:— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be be avoided, viz. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweet- meats require a dry place; so does salt.—Candies cold, but not damp—Dried meats, hams, See. the same.—All soils of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, &c. should be close covered to preserve from insects ; but that will not prevent it, if long kep't. Bread is so heavy an article of expense, that all waste should be guarded against and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent, it. Since the scarcity in 170.5 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keen it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered; but with discretion, as they are very pungent The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use ; and they should be shaken occasionally,'’ When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted m a large jug of water, some of which pc ur into the tubs and boiler; and when the lather be- comes weak, add more. The new improvement in soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity ; and though something dearer than the hard reduces the prbe of washing considerably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the op- eration with less friction. 8oap should Ijc cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that1ISCEU.ANF.0ES OBSERVATIONS [ OK X\ 111 will make a long square when first brought in. out of the air two or thro- w: ks . tor ^ ^ ^ !e8V- will crack, and wenwc^, lot it grow hard gradually. *— as.*»w•".as; ”“‘<j 'Sir-&o; ;r»f“oV poses contrive to have pudd ^g, ^ f several a rniaU" ofold.to T ?S?S mu :rubbed Sff'S’fflSi'thS frelwone when the leas, defect ap- pears. and never SF&^d -ves^ls'should be ry? as? v liill-hill h- ,". cook .cnrfioo * toEoot to »»>o UbUvoch she had kept from the preceding da> in a copper vessel bViu5?by its acidity, does the same, the glaring being UToacoon*quorein hot weather, dip a doth in coldwater. and wrap it round the bottle two or u.iee times then place i» in M-.ft inn • renew the process once or twic(. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is:Plate 1 A UTa?/' 6a£/sPlate 2.1 SLouLLrr afJLu&a/u Af/. Leg of ‘ Mutton, Quarter of LambSAoul&r of AfuUcn/ AT 2. Plate 3. (Tune or'AfuUcn.. S’irlciJV of BeeBPlate 4. fTittmt'hs of fmison. (rno.ro.''late 6. Hare. Reas/ Fowl. Boi/ed FowlPheasant-. Plate larh’idge .lidgcons.thin.. 2 Rump.. 3 Edge Herne. 4 Buttock. S JJoucc Butteck. 6 'VnneyJiece. •ok Fltmk. S Thin flunk. oBeg. /OToreJtih RvcRihr. //.MuldleJUi four RLbe. | huthJ&b Rare /Sic. JdBrLtbet tS Clod TffNeck or sticking Meet. //Skin, IS Cheek. Plate. 7* / Ewicfu. 2 Rfcck. .3 Shoulder. 4 Ptrash.7 deg 2 loin best end. 3 loin chump end. 4 Week 2>cst end S Peek seme/1 I Sjutraib, Plate 8. 2 Sand-. 3 -Rdfy or Spruit/. 6 ffiruLLoin.. £ Leg. To/'k. 4-Rre Lcecrv. Veal. JXffin best end. 6'M'ck best mt 2 J fillet. 4 Bind Thuskle. £ Tare %Knuebie. scrag t 8 Sholder. e JO Breast brisket. Mutto/v.Turk#/ for Roasting. Turkey for hailing. Duck. Breast. Rack. Fowl or Chicken, for Roasting.Crot7S&. Plate 10. Hfoodcack or Srt-ifr-o. Tu/torv. Raifiit for Roasting.Plate 11. ’'Piece cf Iiciltd Sabncn . Spare ril vp 'Park. iBrrmt of Veal.Plate 12,XIX DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. a ston ■ jar on a hot iron hearth: or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water -bath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, barb, Sec, be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals land cinders; for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of |a covered tui bucket Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, [but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly [wet give a great degree of heat, ai.*l are better than coal [for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and oven The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, |tapcs ror the collared things, Src. which, if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant llavour when text used. Cold water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cau ;e it io crack. In the following and indeed a'l other receipts, though ihe quantities may be as accuranly directed as poss.hle, k et much must be left to the discretion of the person who Jiscs them. The different tastesof people require noreor floss of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter See. which 'Aan never be ordered b) general rules; and if the cook. :#ias not a good taste, and attentionto rhatof her employers :*not all the ingredients which nature anti art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper ai ti- tles should be at hand, and she must proportion them un- til the true zest be obtained, and a variety ot flavour ba |’: ven to the different dishes served at the'sarao time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in his little work; and where they are not strictly go. by iuet or bacon being directed into stuffings, the cook must lise butter instead; and where meat gravies (or stock as they are called! are ordered, those made of fish must he ftuiopted. DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. The carving-knife for a lady should he light, and of a aiddling size'and fine edge. Strength, is less required than iddress m the manner of using it: and to facilitate this the cook should give orders to t ie butcher to divide the pints of the bones of all carcnss-joints of mutton, lamb, ud veal [su -h as neck, breast, and loin ;) which may then 5e easily cut into thin slices attached to the idioining ton. 'if the whole of the meat belonging to c-acrt bone 2DIRECTIONS TOR CARVING. X.X should be too thick, a small slice may betaken off between eVTlfeT.orbe°fleshr joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of the bone in the mutton and beef join's .. The dish should not be too far off thethe«rew, as K gives an awkward appearance. and * difficult. Attention is to be p.atd.to help every one part of such articles as a.e c0,(s'^^'l^nau0s • which * Tnhelnin" fish, take care not to break thi Danes, wim.it . in cod and very fresh salmon are W. and contnbuw much to the beauty of its appearance. A <.ish-km.e,i,ot being Sharp, divides it best on this amount. I f Ip a part nf the roe milt, or liver, to each person. The beaus 01 c ,rr natt of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod, and . fins ol turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and arc to l>t atlncuttinVup°anygwiid-fowl. duck, goose or turkey., for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to pinion.’without making wings, there will be moie ’ r' P>C/Mid. — F1 sh in general reguires very little carv- ing the fleshv parts being those principally esteemed. j\ " od’s head and shoulders, when In season, and properly t 1 h mv geift. I and handsome uish. « hen cut. it should he done with a fish-trowel. ami the parts about the back-l ne on the shoulders are the most firm and the best Take off a piece quite dow n to the bone, in tin di- rection a 6. c, d, putting in the spoon at a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of tne sound, ’whicli ho un- derneath the bach-bone and lines it, tl e meat of wi ich it thin and a little darker coloured than the body of the n itself- this may 1 egot by passing a kntle or spoon under- Heath, in the direction d f About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of jelly lund. Tne j nart lies about the jaw, bones, and the firm parts withit tliehei.d. Some are fond of the palate, ana others th( the tongue, which likewise may be got by putting a spoor into the mouth. See plate 1. . , , .. E.lgeJbouettfBccf.-Cutoffa slice an inch hick all th< length from a. b, in plate 1. and then help. 1 hesoftfa ■which resembles marrow lies at the hack of the bone, be low c ; the firm fat must be cu t in horizontal slices at tb ed-sp of the meat if. it is proper to ask which is prefer red, as tastes differ. The skewerthat keeps the meat pro perly together when boiling is here shown at a. iinXXI DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. hould be drawn out before it is served up; or, if it is lecossary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Syloinof Beef may be begun either ut the end, or by utting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether he outside or the inside is pr ferred. For tne outside the lice should be cut down to the hones : and the same with very following helping, biice the inside likewise, and ive with each piece some of the soft fat. The inside done ns fellows eats excellently : Have ready ome shallot-vinegar boiling hot: mince the meat large, nil a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour be shallot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a poon, ns quick as possible, on hot plates. See plate 3. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet f veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all ver. When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but nt it smooth A deep slice should be cut off the heel he- rre you begin to help, ns directed above for the edge-bone. Fillet of ye tl.— In nil ox this part is round of beef. Ask ■heiher the brown outside he liked, otherwise help the ext slice. The bone is taken out, and the meat tied close, efore dressing: which makes the fillet very solid. It aould he cut thin, and very smooli. A stuffing is put into te flap, which completely covers it: you must cut deep ito this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From arelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is ametimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the arver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is lickest, and hasgristles; put your knife about four inches •om the edge of this, and cut through it, which will sep- rute the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and elp accordingly. See Piute 11. Calf's Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if properly lunag 'd. Cut slices from a to h, letting the knife go close ) the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end o, there es the throat sweetbread, which you should help a slice f from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye: ’liich you must cut out with the point of your knife, ltd divide in two. If the jaw-hone he taken off, there •ill be found some fine lean. Under the head is tlip pal- te, which is reckoned a nicety: the lady of the house muld be acquainted with ail things that are thought, so, lat sh may distribute themaraong herguests. Seeplatel. Skou ucr of .Mutton—This is a very guod joint, and by lany preferred to the leg; it being very full of gravy, if roperly roasted, and produces many nice oits. The fig- re represents it as laid la the dish with its back upper-DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. xxii most. When it is first cut, it should be ki the hollow part of it, in the direction of o, b, and the knife should be pas- sed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge; and is to be cut out in thin slices in the di- - rection e. If many are at table, and the hollow part cutt in the line a, b, is eaten, some eery good and delicate slices * may be cut out on each side the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dotted lines is that in the direction'of which the edge or rids of the blade-hone lies, arid cannot be cut across. .See Pic!': i. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutlon (which is ; lie - best flavoured) may be know by a round lump of fat t the edge of tlie broadest part, ns at a. The best part is in the. midway, at 6, between the knuckle and farther end. be- gin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices toe. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to/. This partis most jury; but many prefer the knuckle, which in fine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are verv fine slices on the back of the leg • turn it up, and out the broad end; notin the direction you did the other side, but longw ays. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at ii; then'pass the knife under the crarop-boue in the direction d c. Set' Plate 2. Afoi Quarter of L>::nb.—Separate the shoulder from the scoven (which is the breast and ribs.) by passing the knife under in the direction of a,b,c,d , keeping it towards yon horizontally, to prevent cutting the moat too much oil “he bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville or- ange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little sail and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the pU i in the line e, c; and help either from that, or from the ribs, as may be chosen. See Plate 2. Haunch of reniton.—Cut down to the bone in the linen, ft, e, to let out the gravy ; then turn the broed end of th° haunch toward you, nut in the knife at ft, and cut as deep as you can to the end of the haunch d; then h'elp in thin slices, observing to give some fat to each person. There is "tore fat which is a favourite part) on the left side of' and a than on the other: and those who help must takr to proportion it, as likewise the gravy accordin'* to the number of the company. See Plate 4. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut sr as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helped at m tne same manner. Saddle of Mutton,—Cut long thin slices from the tail tcDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. XX1U the end, beginning close to the back-bone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from theaides. Ham may be cut three ways ; ihe common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to b, from the centre through the thick'fat. This brings to the prime at tirst, which is likewise accomplished by' cutting a smalt round bole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging thnt by cutting successive thin circles: this preserves the gravy, and keens the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and proceed onwards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut trom the under side, drat taking oft-a thick slice. See i’late 4. .fueling Pig.—The cook usually divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the disli with tne jaws and ears. The tirst thing is, to separate a shoulder from tlie car- cass on one side and then the leg, according tu the direc- tion given by the dotted line a, b, c. The ribs are then to he divided into about two helpings; and an ear orjaw presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The ioin'.s may either be divided into two each or pieces may be cut from them. The ribs are reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck-end, between ihe shoulders. See Piute 4. Goose.—Cu t off the apron in the circular line a, b, c, and pour into the body a glass of port wine, and a large U*a-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg. by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and having passed tlie knite at d, turn the leg back, and if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take oft' the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to Ihe body ; then putii. the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction it. e. Nothing but practice will en- able people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When tne leg an.i wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is net often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side- bones by the wing, which may be cut off; as likewise the back and lower side-bones but li e best pieces are the breast and the thighs after being divided from the drum eticl 3. See Plate 10.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. XXIV Hare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point • of the knife under the shoulder at a, and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-hone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed The shoulder must be cut oft'in a circular line, and lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them : and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy to every person. This way can only bo practised when the hare is young : if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm ; but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at th« joint; which vou.. reusl c ndeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a line collop on each side the back ; then divide the back into as many pieces as you pl' ase, und take off the shoulders, v. inch are bi many pre- - ferred, and are called sportman s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head ; put vour knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will en. able you to lay the upper Hat on vour piate ; then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut tin* head into UT°- The cars and brains may be helped then to these wlio like them. See Plate 5. Carve Rabbits ns directed the latter way for hare ; r uttin*» the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime" A Fowl.—A boiled fowi’s legs are bent inwards, ami tucked into the belly; hut before it is Served, the skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate ; and lnace tno joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wine ofi in the direction of a to b. onlv dividing Ihe joint with yoftr knife; and then with ynur fork lift up the pinion, and draw the Wing towards the legs, and the muscles will sep- aTate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone ; then with the fork turn the leg hack, and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. When the fore quarters are thus re- moved, take off the merry-thought from o, and the neck it la8tv.bj P,uttinR ,he kllif« and pressing • it under the long hroad part of the bo le in the line r 6; thui hft it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to tr!oebrP'‘St' .The"?** thing is. to divide the breast from J c“rcjs:'’ bJ' nutting through the tender ribs close to the quite down to the tail. Then lay the back upward,, p it your knife info the hone half-wav from the neck to eaPdilvraPTmm f." ,rsiSinVhe l0"Pr A>Tra!e ?<r.uy: T the rumI' from y°u. and very neatly tike off the two sidesmen, and the whole will be done. Asxxv DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. each part is taken off. it should be turned neatly on the dish : and care should be taken that w hat is left goes pro* perly from table. The breast arid wings are looked upon as the best parts ; but the legs are most juicey. in young fowls. After all, more advantage will be gained by ob- serving those who carve well, am! a little ptaetice, than by any written directions whatever. See Plate 5. A Phfisant. The bird is as trussed forthe spit, with its head under one of its wings. When the skewers are taken oat, and the bird served, the following is the way tc ear ve it. lx vour fork in the eentre of the breast; slice it dowr in the line a, b; take off the 1 on om* side in the dotted lineb, d \ then cut off the wing on the same sid* in the line c, •i. Separate the leg and win:r on ihe otV.fe, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be. careful how you take off the wings; for if you should cut too near the neck, as at g. you will hit on the neck-bone, from which the whig must'be 'Cparated. Cut off the mer- rythought in the line/, g, by passing the knife under it to- wards the neck. Cut the other parts ns in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most esteemed; but the leg has a higher'flavour. See Plateti. Partridge.—The partridge is here represented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skew- ers must he withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken oil in the line a, b, and the merrythought in'the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge nre the wings, breast, and merrythought; but the bir! being small, the two latter are not often di- vided. The wing is considered as the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole. Sec Plods 6. Pigeons.—Cut them in half, either from top to bottom, or across. The lower part is generally thought the best; hut the fairest way is to cutfrom the neek too. rather than from c to h, by a, which is the most fashionable. The fig- ure represents the back of the pigeon ; and the direction of the knife is in the line c, b, by a, if done the last way. See Plate 6. s*DOMESTIC COOKERY. PART I. FISH. To «hoosk Fish. Turbot, :t good, should bo thick, and the bellv of a yellowish white ; if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad. I hey are in season the greatest part ot the summer. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine rod (the gills particularly j, the scales bright, and the whole fish still. VV hen just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price; that caught in the Severn is next in go- dnesa, and is even preferred by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills should be very red ; the fish should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the, eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. They are in season from the begin mg of December till the end of April. Skate.—If good, they are very white and thick. If too fresh, they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. Herbinos.—If good, their gills are of a lino red md the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stifTand firm. Sou «.—If good, they are thick, and the belly is >f a cream-colour ; if this is of a bluish cast and'& DOMESTIC COOKERY. flabby, they are not fresh. They are in the market almost tiie whole year, buture in the highest per- fection about midsummer. Whiti ngs.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings ; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, and July. They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep worse,than any other. Pike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The best are taken in rivers: they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. Catp.—Live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. Tench.—They are a fine flavoured fresh-water fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught.—When they aro to be bought, examine ' whether the gills arc red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff. The tench has a slimy matt ;r about it, the clearness and brightness of wmch show freshness. The season is July, August, and September. Perch.—Take tiie general rules given to dis- tinguish the freshness of oilier fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut.—They are caught in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the, river mullets, and the red to the grey. They should be very firm.—Their season is August. Gougeons.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are lok-u hi running streams3 FISH. come in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or six months. Eels,—There is a greater difference in the good- ness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver- eels (so called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch ells sold at Bill instate are very bad; those taken in great floods are generally good, but in ponds they have usually a strong rank flavour. Except the middle of summer they are always in season. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your fingers on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy them ready-boiled, try whether their tails are stiff, and pull up with a spring; otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock-lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard ; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the higest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a middling size are sweetest. If light they are watery: when in perfection the joints of the legs ar'- stiff, and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eves look dead and loose when stale. Prawn anu Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and still', anil the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oystep.s.- -Thereare several kinds; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Milford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may bo made to possess both these qualities in some di ree by proper feeding. When alive4 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and strong, the shell closes on the knife. They should he eaten as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. , Flounders.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Sfrats.—Choose by the same rules as herrings. OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done ; but those in great towns wash t it beyond what is necessary for cleaning, and by 1 perpetual watering diminish the flavour. When' quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water, to give it firmness, but cod, whiting, and haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day ; and if not very hot weather they will be good two days. Those who kuow how to purchase fish may, by ’ taking more at a time than they want for one day, ’ often get it cheap : and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will sen e for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh water fish has often a muddy smell and taste, to take off which, soak it in strong salt arid water after it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same; then dry and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, aod set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should be p it into boiling water; find v.hen it boils up, pour a little cold water in to»i'SH. 5 check ex .re me heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up, to see if it be ready; it will leave the bone when it is.—It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will be woolly. The fish- plate should be set crosswise over the kettle, to keep hot for serving; and a clean cloth over the fish, to prev at its losing its colour. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crums, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.—Great attention should be paid to garnish- ing fish :—use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver aud roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapped iu a nice soft cloth after it is well cleaned and washed.—When perfectly dry, wet with an egg, if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crums of bread over it; if don*' a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better : then having a thick-bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of laid or dripping boiling-hot, plunge the fish into it, and let it fry middling quick, till the colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take duo, and either place it ou a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or ou the under side of a dish to drain ; and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must oe put to rec. ve the. lirb, which should look a beautiful colour, aud all the crums appear distinct ; the fish6 domestic cooker?. being free from all grease. The dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second tune. Butter gives a bad colour: oil fries of the finest colour for these who will allow of the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done: When washed and picked, throw it again into clean water when the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it. immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must betaken up with a slice; this may be done alter the fash is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean ; which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bn of suet, to prevent the fish from sucking. It must be broiled on a very clear lire, that it may not taste smokey; and not too near, that it may not be yorched. TUBHOT. To keep Turbot. If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at first, it lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. To boil Turbot. The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar iuto it and let it gradually boil : be very careful that there fall no blacks ; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe *>! cnrled parslev, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovyFISH. 7 butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. SALMON. To boil Salmon. Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it ont of the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the lisli be split. If underdone it is very unwholesome. Shrimp or anchovy sauce. To broil Salmon. Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. To pot Salmon- Take a large piece, scale and w ipe, but do not wash it: salt verv well,'let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper: lay in a few bay- leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. To dry Salmon. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub tihe whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt-petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay sail, and two ounces of coarse sugar , rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or trav two8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Jays, then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two small sticks. 1 Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just wanned through; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. An excellent dieh of dried Salmon. Pull some into flakes; have ready some eggs boiled hard and chopped large ; put both into ho If r a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skin it, and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it To pickle Salmon. Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, pepper- corns, anfl. salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. Another way. Alter scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide it into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to till the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so ou till all is done. After tins, if t!ie pickle be not smartly flavoured w ith the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters of an hour.FISH. 9 When al! is colil, pack the fish in somethin!; deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from '.no fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salmon collared. Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to moke a handsome roll wash and wipe it, and having mixed . alt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then toll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, aud put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegaut dish, and extremely good. COD. Some people boil the cod whole; but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner parts being overdone aud tasteless before the thick are ready. I’ut the whole fish may be purchased at times more reasonably ; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, vv ill be in high perfection me or two days. Or it may bo made salter, and served with egg- gance, potatoes, and parsneps. Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh it. is watery: but eats excellently if salted and lintig up for a day, to give it firmness, then stuffed, aud broiled, or boiled. Cod’s Head and Shoulders. Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even it it be eaten the same day. 310 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Tie it up, and put it on the fire in the cold wtttff wnich will completely cover it: throw a handful 1 of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish; or the • beauty of t he smelts will be taken off, us well as. their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and; anchovy and butter. Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry. Cod Sounds fouled. Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean; and if to be dressed white, boil ihem in milk and water ; when tender, serve them <n a napkin, with egg sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. Cod Sounds to loC’k like small Chickens. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not: too tender ; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, minis of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg,, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form’ of a chicken, skewering it; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour oyer them a fine oyster-sauce. .Serve for side or corner dish. To hroil Cod. Sounds. Scald in hot water, rub well w ith salt, pull oilil FISH. the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of soy, and a little mustard: give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. Cods Sounds ragout. Prepare as above: then stew their, in white gravy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour. Currie of Cod. Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it Ann. Fry it of a fine brown with onions ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. To dress Salt Cod. Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on th • iish; pour over it parsneps boiled, beaten in a uortar. and then boil up wi th cream and a largo piece of butler rubbed wit h a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg-sauce instead of the parsnep, and the root sent up wh ole ; or the fish 'nay be boiled and sent up witiiout flaking, and sauces as above. STCHGEON. - To dress fresh Sturgeon. Cut slices, rub eesr over them, liben spriukii12 DOMESTIC COOKERY. with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt: told them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce; butter, anchovy, and soy, To roast Sturgeon. Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit; baste it constantly with butter, and serve it with a good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. Another. Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a st< w-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs - two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of w'ater, and a glass of vinegar. Stir it over the tire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the lish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast itwithout letting the spit run through. Serv< with sorrel and anchovy sauce. An excellent imitation of pickled Sturgeon. Take a line large turkey, but not old : pick it very nicely, singe, and make it extremely cleau: bone and wash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet), w'ine and 1 a very large handful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done enough, tighteu the strings, and lay it upon a dish with a weight of two pounds over it.. Boil the liquor half an hour; and when both arc- cold, put the turkey into it. This will keep some, months, and eats more delicately than sturgeon j vinegar, oil, and sugar, are usually eaten with it. 1 l’more vinegar or salt, should be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel over it to table.13 PISH. Th ornback and Skate. Should be'hung one day at leapt before they are dressed ; and may be served either boiled, or fried in crums, being first dippedSn egg. Crimp Slate. Boil aud send up iu a napkin; or fry as above. Maids. Should likewise be hung up one day at least. They may be broiled or fried; or, if a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled aud the fins fried. They should b • dipped in egg, and covered with crums. Boiled Carp. Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you williiud directed for it under the art ical Stewed Carp. Stewed Carp. Scale and clean, take care'of the roe, &c. Lay the fish iu a stew-pan, with a rich beef-gravy, an onion, eight cloves, and dessert-spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part ot the quantity of gravy or port (cider may do)t simmer close covered. when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, and some line walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour: shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippt ts of fried bread, the roc: fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baled Carp. Clean a large carp; put a stuffing as for soles, dressed in the Potugucse way. Sew it up ; brush it all over with yolk of egg, aud put plenty ot crums; then drop oiled butter to baste them ; place the carp io a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sliced onions,14 DOMESTIC COOKERY, some bay-leaves, a faggot of herbs, (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sorts of marjoram), hali.i a pint of port wine, and six anchovies. Cover oven the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be done before- it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonfuhl of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy., •Serve the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon and parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy' into the sauce-tureen. Perch and Tench. Pnt them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve wiih melted butter and soy. Perch arm most delicate fish. They may be either fried or- stewedj but in stewing they do not preserve 30 good a flavour. To fry Trout and Grayline. Scale, gat, and well wash ; then dry them, and 1 lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of' a fine colour wiih fresh dripping; serve with, crimp parsley, and plain butter. 1 thousand Tench may be lone the same way.. Trout a-la-Grencroise. Clean the fish very w-ell; put it into your stew- pan, adding half Cbampaigne and half Moselle, or Rhenish, or sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small I bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of t rench bread ; set it on a quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce; add flour and a little butter, and let ii boil up. See that your sauce is of a properFISH. 15 thickness. Lay your fish on thu dish, and pour the saace over it. Serve it with sliced lemou and fried bread. M ACKERF.L. Boil, and serve witii butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt; or stuff with the same, crums, and chopped fennel. Collared, as Eel, page 19. Potted : clean, season, and hake them in a pan with spice, bay-leases, and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter. Pickled: boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar; when cold pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel, called Careach. Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, cut each side into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and n handful of salt, all :n the finest powder; mix, and making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved for months. Red Mullet. It is called thp Sea-Wood cock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of am hovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil; and serve in a boal, and the fish in the paper cases.16 domestic cookee r. To dress Pipers. Boil, or bake them with a padding well season* • ed.—If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish ; and when done, tab,? that, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce. To hake Pile. Scale it, and open as near the throatas yon can, . then stuff it with the following; grated bread, . herbs, anchovies, oyesters, suet, salt, pepper, . mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mil all over the fire till it thickens, then put into the lish, sew it up: butter should be put over it in little bits ; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter , and anchovy. Note: if, in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. HADDOCK. Boil; or la-oil with stuffing as under, haring salted than a dag. To dry Haddock. Ohoo?e them of two or three pounds weight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the back-bone. Wipe them dry, and put some sal: Into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; tln n hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four days they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crums over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butte;, until brown enough. .Serve with egg-sauce. Worn: ■ ;?, if large, are excellent this way ; and it Will prove an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply of fish.17 FISH. Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, «72<? smaW Cod. Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, aud fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred tine; an anchovy or two; a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters w ill bean improvement with or wit hout anchovies; add crumbs, aud an egg to bind. SOLFS. Ifboiled, they must be served with area*, care to look perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. If fried, dip in egg and cover them with fine cnuns ofbreadjseton a frying-pan that is just large enough and put into it a large quautity of fresh lard or drip- ping, b*)il it, and immediately slip the fish into it, do them of a fine brown. See to fry , page 12. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt and mustard. Stewed Soles. Do as Carp, page 12. Soles another way. Taketwo or three soles,dividethem from the back- bone, and (ake off the head,"fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail- end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If largeor middling, put half a fish in each roll; small donotanswer. Diptheminto yolks of eggs,and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs ; and fry them a beautiful colour iu lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. Soles in the Portuguese way. Tak' one large or tw o small: if large,cut the fish in two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones18 domestic cookery. fetemgtaken out. put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon-juice, give it a fry, thenlayt the. fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll itround, fastening the roll with a lew small skewers. Laythf rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg, and wet them, then strew Crum >s over ;-and put the remainder of the egg, with a lmie meat gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped, intnthe bottom of the pan ; cover it close, and bake till the • fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep • them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared, and added to it. Portuguese Stuffing for Soles baked. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut i small, and some onions, a little garlick or shaliot, some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few crumbs, and bind it with 1 two or three yolks of eggs. ' The heads of the fish are to be left on one sideoi the split part, and kept, on the outer side of the roll; and when served, the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. An excellent way of dressing a large Plaice, especially if there be a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours;. then wash and wipe it dry. wet over with egg, coverwith crumbs of bread; make some lard or line dripping, aEd twospoonfulls of vinegar, boiling hot lay the fish in, and fry it a tine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, andrisH. (9 anchovy sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. To fry Smelts. They should not be washed more than is necessa- ry to clean them. Dry them iu a cloth; then lightly flour them, but shake it oil’. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread cruins grated fine, .and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard: let them continue gently boiling, aud a few minutes will make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take offthe light roughness of the crurns, or their beauty will be lost. EELS. Spitchock Eels. Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces ofthree inches long, opeu them on the belly-s.de and clean them nicely : wipe them dry and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish a fine colour. Serve with anchovy aud butter for sauce. Fried Eels. If small they should be curled roundand fried 1» mg first dipped into egg and erums of bread. Boiled Eels. The small ones are best; do them in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce: Ed broth, very nourishing for the sick. Do as above; but stew two hours, and add anDOMESTIC COOKERY. 20 onion and peppercorns: salt to taste. Collared Eil. Bone a large eel, butdo not skin it: mi* pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside ;roll it tight and bind withacoarse tape. Boil in salt and water till enough, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. To steir Lamprey as at Worcester. After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the car* tilage which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg pepper, and allspice ; put it into a small stew-pot, with very strong beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of madeira, or sherry. It must be .cohered close ; stew till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter ; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mus- tard. Serve with sippets of bread, and horse- - raddish. Eels, done the same way, are a good deal like the lamprey. When there is spawn, it must be fried and put round. Note. Cider will do in common instead of white wine. FLOUNDERS, Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them sojne firmness. Dip them into egg, cover with crams, and fW them.21 FISK. Water Souchy. Stew two or three flounders, some parsley leaves and roots, thirty peppercorns, and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces ; pulp them through asieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley; simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchy. HERRINGS AND SPRATS. 7*0 smoke Herrings. Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one night; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes in a row. Have ready an old cask, in which put some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them remain twenty-four hours. Fried Herrings. Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced and fried. Broiled Herrings. Flour them first, and do of a good colour: plain butter for sauce. Potted Herrings. Are very good lone like Mackerel, sec page 15. To dress Red Herrings. Choose those that are large and moist, rut them open, and pour some boiling small beer over tb m to soak half an hour : dram them dry, and make them just hot through before the tire, then rub some <jold butter over them and serve. Egg sauce, or22 DOMESTIC COOKERT . buttered eggs, and mashed potatoes, should be sent up with them. Baled Herrings and Sprats. Wash and drain without wiping them, season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves; lay them in a pan writh plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow' oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats, When cleaned should be fastened in tows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled, aud served hot and hot. LOBSTERS AND SHRIMPS. To pot Lobsters. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with mace, white-pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into a pot, and cover with butter ; bake half an hour ; put the spa wn in. When cold take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Heat the other butter iu a mortar with some of the spawn; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved. Another way to pot Lobsters, as at Wood’s Hotel. Take out the meat as whole as you can: split the tail and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, iu the finest23 FISH. powder. Lay a littlefiud butter at the bottom of the pan, and the Lobster smooth over it with bay leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. Wbcn done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with the fork, lay the pieces into pot- ting pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day ; or highly seasoned, and thick-covered with butter, will keep •arae time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricas- se, with a cream-sauce: it then looks very nicely tnd eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, herrings, and trout, arc good jotted as above. Stewed Lobster, a ve>y high relish. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that las a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of mtter, two spoonluls of any sort of gravy, one of oy, or walnut-ketchup, a little sal! and Cayenne, md a spoonful of port; stew the lobster cut into •its with the gravy as above. Buttered Lobsters. Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a ittle weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and •utter, with a little flour. If done white, a little rhite gravy and cream. To roast Lobsters. When you have half-boiled the lobster, fake it 'Ut of the water, and while hot, rub it with butter Jid lay it before the fire. Continue basting it vith butter till it has a fine froth. Currie of Lobsters, or Prawns. Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan,14 DOMESTIC COOKERY. witn a small piece of mace, three or four spoon- fuls of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one or two tea-spoonfuls of currie-powder, a tea- spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter: simmer an hour ; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful dish. Make a savoury fish-jelly, and put. some into the bottom of a deep small dish; when cold lay the cray-fish with their back downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To buU.tr Prawns or Shrimps■ Take them out of the shells; and warm them with a little good gravy, a hit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets ; or with a cream-sauce, instead of brown. To pot Shrimps. When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white-pepper and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter .r CRABS. Hot Crab. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from, the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, crums of bread, ant three spoonfuls of vinegar, into the shell again, am set it before the fire. You may brown it with, salamander. Dry toa st should he served to eat it. upon. Pressed Crab Cold. Empty the shells, and mix the flesh v. it', oil, vin egor, salt, and a little white pepper and CayenneFISH. 26 thenput the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is necessary. OYSTERS. ' To f ed Oysters. Put theminto water, and wash them with abirch besom till quite clean ;then lay them bottom-down- wards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To stew Oysters. Open and separate the liquor from them, then wa. h them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very geutly. and put some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. Boiled Oysters Eat well. Let the shells be nicelv cleaned first, and serve in them to eat with cold butter. To scallop Oysters. Put them with crums of bread, pepper, salt, nut- meg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells, or saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Fried Oysters to garnish boiled Fish. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-bfown. A little nutmeg should bo put into the seasoning, and a few crums of bread into the flout. Oyster Sauce. See Sauces. d26 domestic cookery. Oyster Loaves. Open them, and save the liquor; wash then) it it: then strain it through a sieve, and put a littli': of it into a tosser, with a hit of butter and flour white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a 1 ittlcli cream. Stew them, and cut in dice : put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties. See Patties, To Pickle Oysters. Wash four dozen of the largest Oysters you ca get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain thb liquor off, adding to it, a dessert-spoonful of pep per, tw o blades of mace, a table-spoonful of sal if the liquor be not very salt, three of white win< and four of vinegar.—Simmer the Oysters a fev minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jarr and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold pour over the oysters : co\er close. Another nay to pickle Oysters. Open the number you intend to pickle, put the into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten min utes, simmer them very gently ; then put them in a jar one by one, that none of the grit may stit to them, and cover them when cold with the pick* thus made.—Boil the liquor with a bit of mac lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hu dred put two spoonfuls of the best undistdli vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied clo with bladder, for the air will spoil them. Note. Directions for making Fish Pies will found under the head Pies.MtATS. 27 PART II. MEATS. To choose Meats. Venison.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young: but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow- knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut-gout. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel tender. The fat should look white ra- ther than yellow : for when that is of a deep colour the meat is seldom good: beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef, is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest; but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better if finely fed. In old meat, there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older ; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is gener- ally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not Hie most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding and having had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered, with28 DOMESTIC COOKERY. white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder, looks blue, or of a bright red, it is “ewly kdled but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts should be dry and white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age : but this only hold, with wether mutton ; the flesh of the ewe is paler/ and the texture finer. Ram mutton is very strong flavoured, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore quarter ; tit the vein is bluish, it is fresh; if it has a green ot yellow cast it is stale. In the hind quartei, it hen is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes axe sunlfk the head is not fresh. Grass lamb comes into sea eon in April or May, and continues lil, Aligns® House-lamb may be had in great towns almost al the year, but is in highest perfection in Decembe and January. .. .. p0RK—Pinch the lean, and if young it wil break.—If the rind is tough, thick, and canno easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. At hit rind is a merit in all pork. \V ken fresh, the flos) will be smooth and cool: if clammy, it is tainted What is called measly pork is very unwholesome and may be known by the fat being full of kernels which in good pork is never the case. Pork let at still-liouses does not answer for curing any way the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best- Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm, and «MEAT. 20 a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone; if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. Brawn.—The horny part of young brawn will feel moderately tender, and tire flavour will be better; the rind of old will be hard. Observations on purchasing, keeping, and dressing Meat. In every sort, of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a high- er price; but as they have more solid meat, they deserve thep-eference. It is worth notice however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably: and being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn; for when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps andedgebones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part thathas been struck always taints ; therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and after soaking and brushing, may be added to giveso DOMESTIC COOKERY. richness to gravies or soups They are also par- ticularly nourishing for sick persons. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings or to clarify. Dripping will baste everything as well as butter except fowls and game; and for kitchen pies- nothing else should be used. The fat of a neck or loin of mutton makes a fai lighter pudding than suet. Meat and vegetables, that the frost has touched should be soaked in cold water, two or three hourr before used, or more if they are much iced. Puttinj them into hot water, or to the lire, till thawed ' makes it impossible for any heat to dress them properly afterwards. In warm weather, meat should be examined wel when it comes in; and if flies have touched it, th< part must be cut off, and then well washed. 1 n tli height of summer, it is a very safe way to let n ea > that is to be. salted lie an hourin very cold water ubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and ru it thoroughly in every part, throwing ahandfulovt it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickl m, which will make it ready for the table in thre or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap i in well floured cloth, after rubbing it with sab This last method will corn fresh beef lit for th table the day it comes in, but it must be put int the pot when the water boils. If the weather pc rmit, meat eats much better h banging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which the meat has been boile makes an excellent soup for the poor, by addiog t it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas.ML AT. SI Roast-beef bones, or shank bones of ham, make fine peas-soup; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. lu some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of charcoal over it. If meat is brougbtfrom a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is kept on the road while he Serves the customers who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the country. I Wash all meat before you dress it; if for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking; but if for roasting, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foul- ness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. The boiler and utensils should he kept delicately clean. Put the meat into cold water, and flour it weil first. Meat boiled quick will be hard : but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. If die steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; therefore when you wish it to boil away, take off the cover of the soup-pot. "Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or parsneps with boiled beef. As for the length oftime required for roasting and12, DOMESTIC COOKERY. boiling, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes; for if the Gook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, lets it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time, will not be sufficient, and the meat will be underdone. Weigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints, & quarter of an hour for every pound, and some min- utes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will fake four hours» and a half, andothers in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling,. after soaking: a tongue out of pickle, from two hours • and a half to three hours, or more if very large; it t mustbejudged by feeling whether it is very tender. A leg of pork, or lamb, takes the allowance o twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to it pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and a half; twenty pounds will take three hours and three quarters. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. » The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat should be much hasted ; and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it, If not fat enough to allow for basting, alittle good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit I JSMEAT. S3 "through the best parts; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime ot the meat; and the cook should have leadeu skew- ers to balance it with ; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. Id roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and waier intothedrippiug-pan, and baste for a little while withlhis, before using its own fat or dripping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy, it should only be sprinkled when ■almost done. Tune, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young: not that they are sooner done, but they can be cate?) with the gravy more in. A piece of writing paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them twice over with egg and crums. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the meat, fish, &c., are put in, and kept so till finished : a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come; ■'el the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep *»ver over it so as not io touch the meat, and thendomestic cookeht. throw ft e.otli over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. VENISON. To keep Venison. Preserve the venison dry, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with cleani cloths ill uot tlie least damp remains, then dust pounded iringor over every part, which is a very good pre- ventive against' tile fly. By thus managmg and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to lie used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, andl dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. To dress Venison. A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half, or three qnarters roasting : doe. only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather under than overdone. Spread a sheet of while paper with butter, and put it over the fat. first sprinkling it with a little, salt; then lay a course paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch ; tie it with fine packthread and set it at a distance from the lire, which must be a good one. Baste it often ; ten minutes before ser- ving take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire and baste it with butter and a good deui of flour, to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be pul into a boat, and not into the dish (unless there is none in the venison j, and made thus; Cut off the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set in steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover quite close foran hour, and simmer it gently, then uncover it. and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt.35 kiiAT. Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat. Formerly, pap sauce was eaten with venison; which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread, and boil it with port wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon : and when quite smooth take out the cinnamon and add eugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jellv-sauce thus. lie at some currant- jelly and a spoonful or tw o of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar to tho jelly, and melt as above. Serve with french beans. Haunch, NecL, and Shoulder of Venison. Roast with paste as directed above, and the Bame sauce. . To stew a Shoulder of Venison. Let the meat hang till you judge proper to dress it; then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some oliccs of mutton fat, thathave j lain a tew hours in a little port wine, among it, sprinkle a little pepper and allspice over it in tine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it inastew- \ pan that w ill only just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wane, and some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close covered, and as slow as you can, for three or four hours. When quite tender, take oft the tape, set the meat on a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. _ This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it i; very fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should be ^fewed with it. Breast of Venison. l)o it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty.3G domestic cookery. Hashed Venison. Should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without, seasoning, as before; and only wanned through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat, set it ou the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry ; then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison.—For Venison Pasty look under the head Pastry ; as likewise an excellent imitation. BEEF. To keep Beef. The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck pieces, where the shoulder clod is taken off, two from each round of beef; one in the middle, which is called the pope’s eye; the other from the flap: there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the edgebone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling; and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. The flesh ofcattle that are killed when not per- fectly cleared of food soon spoils. They should fast twenty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, before being killed. To salt Beef or Poi'k for eating immediately. The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the pot ; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, andfold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, andMEAT. 3T it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Great attention is requisite in salting meat: and in the country, where large quantities are cured, this is of particular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprinkled, and a few hours after- wards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with the salt: which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves tojkeep it from tasting strong. It should be turned every day; and if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting tub or lead maybe used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and when cold, ponr it over meat that has been sprinkled and draiued. Salt is so much increased in price, from the heavy duties, as to require great care in using it; and the brine ought not to be thrown away, as is the practice of some, after once using. To salt Beef red : which is extremely good to eat fresh from the Pickle, or to hang to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it. and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small proportion of saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days, In sixteen, drain it from the pickle; and let it be smoke at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats ' veil boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated a3 Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it uuderDOMESTIC COOKERY. S8 a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. The Dutch way to salt Beef. Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten fine; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn ii upside down every day. Boil it in pump water, and press it: it will grateoncut intoshivers, like Dutch beef BeefMode. Cheose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fatbacon, but quite free from yellow ; let each bit bp near an inch thick; dip them into vinegar, and then iuto a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in tine powder, with parsley, chives, thyme,.savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. W ith a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding;; then rub*the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pott over a fire or rather stove: three or four onions- must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, ahead ortwo of cellerv, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turn- ing the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove’the fat, keep the beef covered, then put themdogether, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve -"■th the vegetables; or you may strain them off.1MEAT Z) f .ad send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, and then stewed with the gravy, are a Treat improvement. A tea-cupful of vinegar "hould be stewed with the beef. A Frictmde.au of Beef. Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mase, and all- spice. Put it into a stew-p an with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine,ahuiulle of parsley , all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic k* a shallot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close: skim the sauce well, and strain it: set it on the fire and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sc.rrel-sauce. To stew a rump of Beef. Wash it well; and seas.on it high with pepper, Cayenne, salt, allspice, three cloves, and a blade of nace, all in fine powder. Bind it uptight, aud lay ithuto a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shallot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery'. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible forseveral hours,till quite tender. Clear off the fat; and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoon- ful of ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon,parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny-royal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quautitie. to the pungency of tin: several sorts; et there be i> good handful all together.40 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley,, chives, beetroot, &c. If, when done, the gravy is ■ too much to till the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better ; and to increase the richness, add a few beef bones and I shanks of mutton in stewing. A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. llump roasted is excellent: but in the country it is generally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across, instead of lengthwise as in London,, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Rump another way. Half roast it: then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds, (such as burnet, tan agon, parsley, thyme,, basil, savoury, penny-roy* (, marjoram, knotted 1 marjoram, and a leaf or twi of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne ; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender; two or three hours will do it. When done, lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close.. Skim the gravy, put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters, if agreeable, but it is very good w'th- out; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement.41 MEAT. To stew Brisket of Beef. Put the part which has the hard fat into a stew- pot with a small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly : then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Slew it extremely tender; then take out the flat bones, *nd remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen : or the soup alone, and tire meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, served with the beef::—Take half a pint of soup, and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter and salt: boil all together a a few minutes,then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put in several heaps over it. To press Beef. Salt a bit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt aud saltpetre live days, then boil it gently, till extremely tender: put it under a great weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. It eats exceileutly cold, and for sandwiches. To moke Hunter's Beef. To a round of Beef that weighs twenty-live pounds, take three ounces of saJtpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days : then rub the above well into it, and turn aud rub it every day for two orthree weeks. Tiie bone must be taken out at first, When to be dressed, dip it 5,|2 DOMESTIC COOKERV. into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or sis hours. When cold take, off the paste and tape. \ The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup. fee. Both the gravy and the beef w ill keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to prevent waste. ; An excellent mode of dressing Beef. Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with > salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c., and baked as hunter’s beef,is excellent. To collar Beef. Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow' beef, but”not too fat; lay into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and beep it cool. Then take out every bone and >mstle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small: a large handful of parsley, toesame of sage, some thyme, marjoram, penny-royal,pepper, salt.i and allspice. Roll the meat up astight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape Put the beef under a good weight while hot, with out undoing it: the shape will then be oval, i’ar of a breast, of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. Beefsteaks. Should he cut from the rump that has hung a fev4» MEAT. days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal lire : put into the dish a little minced shallot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done that it is not in perfection if served with auy thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the fire. Beefsteaks and Oyster Sauce. Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon- peel ; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, and little cream, if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour; let them boil up once • and have some rump-steaks well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, the moment you are to serve. Staffordshire Beef-steaks. Beat them a little with a rolling pin, flour and season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown ; lay the steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce : stew them very gently half an hour, and add a s'poonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor before you serve. Italian Bcef-stcaks. Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been w U hung, or it will do from any tender part; beat it, and seasou with pepper, salt, and oniou; lay it in an iron stew-pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without „ water Take care if does not burn, but it must44 DOMESTIC COOKERY. have a strong heat; in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. Beef-Collops. Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them, Fry the collops quick in buttei two minutes. then lay them into a small stew-pan and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit o butter nibbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit«. shallot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut four small pickled cucumbers, and a tea-spoontu of capers cut small. Take care that it does no boil; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish Beef-Palates. Simmer them in water several hours, tili the; will peel; then cut the palates into slues, 01 leav them whole, as you choose; and stew them in i rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before ym sen e, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup If the gravy was drawn clear, add also sow butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk, an stew them in fricassee-sauce : adding cream, buttei flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pouude' inace. Beef-Cakes for a side-dish of dressed Meat- Pound some beef that is underdone with a litll fat bacon, br ham ; season with pepper, salt, an a little shallot, or garlick: mix them well; an make ibinto small cakes three inches long, an half as wide and thick: fry them in a light brow i and sene them in a good thick gravy. To 'pot Beef. Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with sal46 MEAT. petre, and let itlie one night; thensalt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a clo th and seasou with black iiepper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very tine with a quarterof a pound of fine butter, just warm, but not oiled, and as much ot the gravy a- will make it into a paste ; put it into very smull pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted : beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg,and a little fine butter, just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so tine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. To dress the Inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef. Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, into pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long: dredge it with flour ; and fry in butter, of a nice brown ; drain the butter from the meat and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shallot. Do not lei it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar- Garnish with crimped parsley. Fricassee of cold Roast Beef. ■ Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a hand- ful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour : then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stirDOMESTIC COOKERY, 4G it quick, rub the dish with shallot, and turn tua fricussee into it. To dress cold Beef .that has not .been done enough, called Beef-Olir.es. Cut slices half an inch thick, and four inches square ; lay on them a forcemeat of crums of bread, shallot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with -a small skewer : put them into a stew-pan, with some gravy made of the beef bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. To dress the same, called Banders. Mince beef or mutton, small, with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little gravy ; put it into scallop- shells, or saucers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream; pnt a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire, or with a salamander. To dress the same, called Cecils. Mince any kind of meat, crums of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size aud shape of a turkey’s egg, with an egg; sprinkle them with fine crums, and i then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before directed for Beef-olives. To mince Beef. Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shallot (a very little will do), a little water, pep-MEAT. 47 rier md salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft; then pat some of the gravy of the meat into it, and the mince. Ho not let' it boil. Have a -mall hot dish with sippets of bread ready , and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vin- egar with it, if shallot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shallot. To hash Beef- Do it the same as in the last receipt: only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoon- ful of walnut liquor or ketchup. Observe, that ii is owiDg to boiling hashes or minces, that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed asecond time should be only simmered, and this last only hot through. Beef-a-la-drujrette. * Cut a slice of underdone boiled beet' three inches thick, and a little tat; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leal , season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, tilt the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a Little vinegar for sauce. Round of Beef. Should be carefully salted, and wet with the pickle for eight or tea days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with pars- le >, if approved, in which case the holes to admit the parsley roust be madf: with a sharp-pointed knif*, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently.domestic cookery 48 ' Rolled Beef that equals Hare. Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it'in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for fdrty-eight hours; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. .Roast it on a hanging-spit; and baste it with a glass of port wme, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour: serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted butter in tureens. To roast Tongue and Udder After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt and saltpetre three days; then boil it and likewise a fine young uddbr with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast t e tongue and udder together. Serve them w ith good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. Some people like neat’s tongues cured with the root, in whi h cast they look much larger; but otherv, ise the root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely w ell cleaned, before it is dressed : and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. To pirkle Tongues for Boiling. Cut off the root, but. leave a little of the kernel aud fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day : then for each tongue mix u large spoonful of common salt, the same of r oarer sugar, and tbout half as much of saltpetre; rub it49 MEAT. well in, and do so every day. In a week a>Id ano- ther headed spoonful of salt If nibbed every day ft tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without being too salt. When you dry tongues, write the date on a p irchment, and tie it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you like best. When it is to be dressed, boit it extremely tender; allow tive hours; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The lougor kept after drying, the higher it will be ; if hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. Anoth ek way.—rC'lean as above, for two tongues allow an ouucg of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal- prunella ; rub them well. In tw o days after well rubbing, cove* them with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, and rub • over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will befit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. To stew Tongue. / Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it teudorenough to peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy ; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cay- enne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with trufiles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken o,rfhe tungues before salting, but some fat left. An excellent, war! of doing Tongues to cat- cold. Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in tine powder, fora fortnight: then take -n ay t!i: pickle, put t ' tongue into a small pan,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 and lay some butter ou it; cover it with brown i crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The t iin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addi- tion to the flavour of omlets. Beef-heart. Wash if carefully; stuff as a hare; and serve with rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Stewed Ox-Cheek, plain. Soak and cleanse a line cheek the day before it is to be eaten; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water, simmer' it after it has first boiled up and been w ell skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often ; when the. meat is tender, take it out, let the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown ; which might be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions- quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies, of the browu kind. If vegetables are not approved iu the soup, they may be taken out, aud a small roll be toasted, or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, aud should always be served. Where it. is not to be got, the seed of it .iv*-s quite as good a flavour, boiled in, aud strained off. To dress an Ox-cheek, another way. Soak half a head three hours, and dean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the boi/>«MtAT. .31 and put it into the pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top : pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will lit close, Let it. stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven: or simmer it by the. side of the lire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take tire cake of fat off', and warm the head iu pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. Marrow-hones. . Cover the top with floured cloth; boil them, and serve with dry toast. Tripe May be served iu a tureen, stewed writh milk and onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. Or fry it iu small bits dipped in butter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy: thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricasse it with white sauce. Soused Tripe. Jloil the tripe, but not quite tender ; then puj in into salt and water, which must be changed every day til! it is used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into batter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. Ox-feet, or Cow-heels. May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritions in all. BoiJ them; and serve in a napkin, with melted bull r, musturd, and a large spoonful of vinegar.DOMESTIC COOK.ER'V. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as H brown fricassee: the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relishing, and likewise to give richness to soups or graTies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then hour and fry them; and fry omons (if you like them) to serve round. Sauce as above Or bake them as for mock-turtle. Bubble and, Squeak. Roil, chop, and fry, with a little butter, pepper,, end salt, some cabbage, and lay ou slices of I underdone beef, lightly fried. VEAL. To keep Veal. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, by which means it will keep good three or four days in hot wea- ther. Take care to cut ont. the pipe that runs- along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hinder itfrom tainting. The skirt ot the breast of veal is likewise to be taken oft ; and the inside of the breast w iped and scraped, and sprinkled with a little salt, Leg of Veal. Let the fillet be cut large or small, as best nits the number of your company, l ake out the bone,fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite l’ound ; and send the large side uppermost. W hen halt roasted, if not be'ore. put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance liora {he fire, as the meat i3 very solid; serve withMEAT. 53 melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it. Knuckle of Veal. As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, and take of? some cutlets orcollops, before it be dressed; and as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. Break the bouesto make it take less room ; wash it well; and put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns cover it with water, and simmer it till quite ready. In the mean time some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice flour, to give it a small degree of thickness: but do not put too much. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with or withont the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a good brown ; and have ready, peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water, an hour; then add these to the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together. Shoulder of Veal. Cutoff the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part for stuffing ; you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-boue, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well witli mushroom or oyster- tauce, or mushroom-ketchup in butter. Neck of Veal. CutolTthe scrag to boil, and cover it with onion sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water.51 domestic cookery. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion-sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. Neck of Veal a-la-braise. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped fine,salt, pepper, and nutmeg: put it into a tosser, and cover it w ith water. Put to it the scrag-end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glassof Madeira wine. Stew it quick twohours,. or till it is tender, bnt not too much. Strain off' the liquor: mix a little flour and butter in a stew- pan till brown, ana lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and sqeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. Breast of Veal. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken oft and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth over it; or if you have no broth, a little' water will do: add a bunch of herbs, o blade or twTo of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy, stew till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup : or the whole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends.MEAT. 5o Serve the sweetbread whole upon it; which may either be stewed, or parboiled, and theu covered with crams, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch oven. If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion- sauce, is an excellent dish, if not old, nor too fat. To roll a breast of Veal. Bone it, take oft'the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very tine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some thick slices of tine nam; or roll it into two or three calves’ tongues of a hne red, boiled first an hour or two, and skinned. Bind It up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire, to simmer, in a small quantity of water, till it is quite tender: this will take some hours, Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. Pigs’ or calves feet boiled and taken from the bones may be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers, look well whencut; and you may pul in yolks of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. Another way. When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over the liquor: which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will not keep. Chump of Veal a-la-daube. Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the rdgehune; still the hollow with good forcemeat, ie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the hone ou took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, i" i blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pintDOMESTIC COOKERY. 5(3 of Rood veal broth. Corcrthe vealwitli slices of fat' bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper ever it. Cover the pan dose, simmer it two hours, then lake out the bacon, and glaze, the veal.—Serve it on mush- rooms, or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. Veal-rolls, of cither cold meat or f resh. Cut thin slices : and spread on them a tine season-, ing of a very few crums, a little chopped bacon 01 scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and shallot 'or instead of the parsley and shallot, some i'resl mushrooms stewed and minced), pepper, salt, ant a small piece of pounded mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll like t sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In eithercRSt' tie it up very tight, and stew very slowly in i gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely.. Harrico of Veal: Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the bone short, but leave whole; then put it into a Btew-pai. just covered wjlhbrowugravy; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucuiu • bers pared and sliced, and two cabbage-lettuces cu into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth: pu them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce am vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with forcemea. balls rou nd it, A Dunelm of cold Veal or Fowl. Stew a few small mushrooms in their own lique and a bit of butter, a quartet of an hour ; mince ther very small, and add them (with their own liquor) t minced veal, with also a little pepper and salt, stun cream, and a bit of butter rubbed iti less than ha! a lea-spoonful of flour. Simmer three or four minSI EAT* -i i utes and serve on thin sippets of bread. Minced Veal. Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do uot chop it.—Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoon- fuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; Simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape, round the dish. To pot Veal. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows: Season a large sliceofthe fillet before itisdressrd with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves; lay it close into apotting-pan that will but just hold it, till it up with water, and bake it three hours; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and jlidd salt to taste; put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon; otherwise only tattle butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. To pot Veal or Chicken with Ham. Pound some cold veal or white .*f chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put ayers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather (jthred ; press each down, and cover with butter. Cutlets Maintenon. I Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, Ioeat them with a rolling-pin, ami wet them on both sides with egg: dip them into a seasoning of bread rums, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, dt, a c! a little nutmeg grated ; then put them into i a pers folded over, and broil them ; and have in a >oat melted butter, with a little mushroom ketchupdomestic cookery. o8 •' Cutlets another way. Prepare as above, and fry there ; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour,and nut! a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it. then pour a little Loiling water into it, and boil quick: season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Otuek ways.—Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch oven; pour over them melted butter and mushrooms. Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck- steaks. They are excellent with herbs. Veal Collops. Cat long thin collops; beat them well; and lay oi them a bit ol'thin bacon of the same size, and spread* forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, abor t tho size of two fingers, but no more than two or tlire* inches long; put avery small skewer to fasten eacl firmly ; rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, anu pour a rich brown gravy over. To dress Col lops quick. Cut them as thin as paper with a very shar knife, and in small bits. Throw the skiu. and am odd bits of veal, into a little water, vvith a dust i pepper and salt: set them on the lire while yo beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning < herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of outme|, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butti into a frying-pan, and give tlie collops a very quie fry ; for as they are so thin, two minutes will c them on both sides ; put -them into a hot dish befo. the fire; then strain and thicken (he gravy, give a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the col lop A little ketchup is ail improvement. Akothcr way.—Try them in butter only s asoMEAT. 59 ed with salt and pepper; then simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with bits of bacou served with them. I f white add lemon -peel and mace and some cream Scallops of cold Veal or Chicken. . Mince the meat extremely small; and set it over the tire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and solt, and a little cream, for a few minutes: then put it into the scallop-shells, aud till them with eCnms of bread, over which put some bits of batter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks or eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crums of bread, fried ; or these may be put on in little heaps. Fricandeau of Veal. Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg; about nineincheslong, and half as thick and broad, heat it w ith the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rongh edges. Lard the top and sides; ind cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew-pan with any pieces [>f undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, apiutof good vealormutton broth, snd four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Dover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours ; then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it. quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, aud sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. A cheaper, but equally pood, Fricandeau of Veal. With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones ilie length of your hand, and prepare it the sameDOMESTIC COOKERY. GO way as in the last receipt; three or four bones ouly will be necessary, and they will make the gravy; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. Fricandeau another way. (> Take two large round sweet breads and prepare' them as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles,morels, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms,- and serve it round. Veal Olives. Cut. long thin collops, beat them, lay on thou thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer o’ forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shallo- and Cayenne. Roll them 'ight about the size o two fingers, but not more than two or three niche: long ; fasten them round with a small skewer, rut egg over them, and fry them of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mush rooms pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried Veal Cuke. Boil six or eight eggshaid ; cut the yolks in two and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices t veal and ham, add then eggs again ; shaking inafte each some chopped parsley with pepper and sal till the pot is full. Then put in water enough I cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter ; t it over with a double paper, and bake it about a hour. Then press it close together with a spoo. and let it stand till cold. It maybe put into a small mould; and then will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dis Veal Sausages. Chop equal quantities of lean veal aud fat bacomuat. 61 • handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar; and when U f‘‘! ro11 ilurl fry it, and serve it with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetebles, or on white lollops Scotch Collops. Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, •nd rather round ; beat with a rolling-pin,and grate a little nutmeg over them: dip into f lie yolk ot an egg, and fry them in a little butter of a hue brown : pour the butter off, and have ready warm to pour upon them, half a pnt of gravy, a little bit of butter rubln (I mto a bit of Hour, a yolk of »gg, two large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Do not boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. To boil Calf, Head. (lean itvery nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender ; then strew it over with crums and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked’ better, leave one side plain. Bacon and green .- are to be served to eat with it. The brains must be boiled ; nnd then mixed with melted butter, scaled sage chopped, pepper, and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a. few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. Cold calfs head eats well if grilled. To hash Calf ’g Head. When half boiled, cut off the meat i slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long: brown son.*- butter. Hour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slu: with some go-id gravy, tru flies and morels.62 DOMESTIC COOKERY. give it oiie boil, and skim it well, and set it in a moderate heatto simmer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt and Cayenne, at first.; and ten minules before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and k’ ot- ted marjoram cut as fine as possible ; just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat balls and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife; lay tliisiutoasmall dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crums, a few hi-rbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the fire ; and keep turning it now aud then, that all the parts of the head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remain- der of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue ; pu* a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs (consisting ot parsley, basil,savoury, tarragon, knotted marjoram and a little thyme), a little salt and Cayenne, a shallot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster-liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup; then beat up half tie brains, and put this to the rest withabitofbutter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Thenfry it in little cakes ofa beautifu. yellow-brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk v an egg, and do the same; and also some relishing orcemeat-ba’ls made as for mock turtle. Garniu. with these, and small bits of bacon just made ho' before the tire.oi meat. Calf’s Head fricasseed. Clean and half-boil a head : cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in. a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockrels in the house, use the cockscombs ; butlirst boil them ten- der, and blanch them; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the gravy withalittle pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a boil together; then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls To collar Calf’s Head. Scald the skin off a tine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones : then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace,nutmeg, salt, and white pepper mixed well: season it high with these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of line ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yel- low eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Mock Turtle. Bespeak a calf’s bead with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half-boil it, take all the meat oil in square bits, break the botes of the head ana boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to ihc richness. Fry some shallot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy ; stir64 DOMESTIC COOKERY. this into the browning, give it one or two boils ami skim it carefully, and then put in the head; pul in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put iu some basil, tarragon, chives, pars- ley, Cayenne pepper, and salt to your taste; also twospoonfuls of mushroom-ketchup, undone ofsoy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper WAY.—Prepare half a calf’s head, without the skin as above: w'hen the meat is cut oir break the bones and put them into a saucepan with sonic gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, aim pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to w hich a cow-heel likewise cut into pieces, is a great im- provement. brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to i* . then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pintef sherry, an anchovy, two spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, " the same )f mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before, Balls, &c. Another.—Pul into a pan a knuckle of veal, two line cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, pep pers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs: cover them w ith water, then tie a thick paper over the pan, and setit in an oven forthree hours. When cold takeoff the fat very nicely ; cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half square : remove the bones and coarse parts, and then put the rest on lo warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mushroom ketchup, half a pintofsheny orM: dci- ra wine, a little mushroom powder, arid the jelly of the meat. When hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add some; and serve with hard eg^s, torepineot-halls, a squeeze of lemon, and a05 MEAT. ■Spoonful of soy. Thisi9 a very easy way, andthedish is excellent. Another.—Stew a pound and a half of scrags of ir.utlou, with from three pints of water to a quart; then set the broth on, with a calfs foot and acow- heel. r over the stew-pan tight, and simmer till yon can get ofl the meat from the bones in proper bita. Set it on again with the broth, a quarter of & pint oi Madeira wine or sherry, a large onion, half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel tvo anchovies, some sweet herbs, eighteen oysters cut into pieees and then chopped fine, a tea-spoonful ot salt, a little nutmeg, and the liquor of the oysters; cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of an hour. Serve with forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs, in the tureen. Aq excellent and very cheap mock turtle may be made of two or three cow-heels baked with two pounds and a half of gravy-beef, herbs, &c., as above with cow heeh and veal. Calf's Liver. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and broil nicely; rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. Calf's Liver roasted. Wash and wipe it ; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crums of bread, chopped anehovj, herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, ouion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, aud an egg ; sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal-eawl, and roast it. Serve with good brown gravy, and currant-jelly. To dress the Liver and IJghts. Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in a midling sized mince, put to it a spoonful or 'wo of the water that boiled it, » bit of butter.DOMESTIC COOKERY. GG flour, salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes and serve hot. Sweetbreads. Half-boil them, aud stew them in a white gravy; add cream,flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then coverthem with crums, herbs and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve with butter and mushroom ketchup, or gravy. Sweetbreads roasted. Parboil two large ones : when cold, lard them w ith bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom ketchup. Sweetbread ragout. Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash anJ dry them, then fry them of a tine brown ; pour to them a good gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms or mushroom ketch- up ; strain and thicken with butter aud a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Kidney. Chop veal-kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg in balls, and fry them. Calf s heart stuff and roast as a beef’s heart; or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. pork, &c. Kacon-hogs and porkers are differently cut up. Hogs are kept to a larger size : (he chine (or backbone)is cutdownoaeach side,the whole Lngth aud is a prime ,u. either boiled or roasted.M EAT. 67 The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a large spare-rib ; which is usually divided into two, one sweet bone and a blade-bone. The bacon is the whole outside, aud contains a fore-leg and ham ; whicli last is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon it is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog, Pickled pork is made of the. flesh of the hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs their flesh is whiter and less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the spare-riband griskin. The hind has the leg aud the loin. The feet of pork make several good dishes, and should be cut off before the legs are cured. Ob- serve the same of the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, and sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. To roast a leg of Pork. . Choose a small leg of fineyoung pork : cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and till the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper / and salt. When half-done, scorethe skin in slices, but do Dot cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple-sauce and potatoes should be sorted to eat with it. To boil a leg of Pork. ■■ Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed weigl t: let it lie half an hour in cold watei to make it white: allow a quarter of an hour for every pound,68 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and half an hour over, from the time it bods up , skim itas soou as itboi\s,and frequently after. Allow water enough, Save some of it to make peas-soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth floured ; which git es a very delicate look, It should be small, and ot a fine grain. . Serve peas pudding and turnips >vita it. Loin and Neck of Pork. Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, a distances of half an inch, with a sharp peo-Unife. Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a leg ; when very nice, they may be roasted. Rolled Neck of Pork. Bone it. put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a i ery few crams of bread, salt, pepper and two or three berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, aud roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. Spring or Forehand of Pork. Cut out the bone ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside; but first warm aliUlebutter to baste it, aud then flour it ;roil the pork light, and . tie it; then roast by a hanging jack. About two hours will do it. Spore-rib Should be basted with a very little butter and a little flour, aud theu sprinkled with dried sage crum- bled'. Apple-sauce and potatoes for roasted pork. Pork Griskin. Is usually very hard; the best way to prevent thin is, to put it into as much cold water as will cover it and let it boil up ; then instautly take it oil, andMEAT pnt it into a Dutch oven ; a very few minutes will do it. Remember to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. Blade-bom: of Pork Is taken from the bacon-hog; the less meat left on it, in moderation, the hetter. It is to be broiled ; and when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard ; and serve it covered, quickly, This is a 'Somer- setshire dish. To drtes Pork as Lamb. Kill a young pig of four or live months old ; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts .rill make delicate pickled pork; or steaks, pies, &c. Pork-steaks. Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling thickness; pepper and broil them, turning them oftoo ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. To pickle Pork. The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, at)'! drain it twenty four hours; then rub with the above; pack the pieces tight ii a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimming in the pic kle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very tine tor two years.70 domestic cookery. Sausages. Chop fat and lean pork together; MM»>> “'vi£ sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two three berries of allspice: hals fill hogg » h li»at have been soaked and made extremely clean . or Urn meat, mav be kept in a very small pan closel y covered; and so rolled and dusted with avery little Hour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cab- base ; or mash potatoes put in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above: they mus be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. An excellent Sausage to eat cold. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpeU-e black pepper; and allspice all in fiaepowder, and rub into the meat; the sixth day cut it small l,and mix with it some slued shallot or garlic, “ * possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has betn scoured, salted and soaked well, and fall it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it m a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it. without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be lied in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches loug Spadbury's Oxford Sausages. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; add three- quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them : steep the cram of a penuy-loaf in water, aud mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. To scald a Sucking Pig. The moment the pig is killed, put it into colfi .vater for a few minutes; then rub it over witn aMEAT. 71 little resin beaten extremely small, and put into a pail of scaldiug water half a minute ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, th at no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the bellv, and take outthe entrails; putthe liver, heart, and lights, to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet clolh to keep it from the air. To roast a Sucking Pig. If you can get it when just killed, this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually do ; then put some sage, crums of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig w ith it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the fluttered cloth, and take oft the head while at die fire: take out the brains, and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take ;t up ; and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the ::age and bread quickly as fine as you uu. and mix them with a large quantity offine melted but- ter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, i-_r»d garnished with the ears and the two jaws; < ake off the u pper part of the heed duwu to the snout.72 DOMESTIC COOK CRT. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very sraail; the bead only being cut off to garnish as above. * Pettitoes. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quantity of water, very gently ; then cut the meat line and simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper: give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, aud put the leet on the mince. To make excellent Meat of a Hof s Head. Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day ; then drain it; salt it with common salt and saltpetre three days, then lay the salt andhead in a small quan - tity of water for two days. Wash it andboil it till all the. bones will come out: remove them, and chop the head as quick as possible : but first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully oft' the head, to put undei and over. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or allspice berries. Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other skin ov er; press it down, when cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put a few bits of lean pork to be prepared the same way. Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a pickle to keep it. To rodst. Porker’s Head. Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread and sage as for pig ; sew it up tight , and on a spring or hanging-jack roast it as a pig, and serv> With the same sauce. To prepare Pig’s Cheek for boiling. Cut off the snout, and clear, the head : divide itMliAT. 73 and take out the eyes and the brains, sprinkle the head with salt and let it drain twenty-four hours, Salt it with conmon salt and saltpetre ; let it lie eight or ten days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all is tender. To collar Pig’s Head. ■Scour the head and ears nicely; take off the hair and suout, and take out the eyes and the brain ; lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other to make the roll of equal size; sprinkle ii well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and if you approve, put the pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender ;then put a good w eight upon it, and do not take off the covering till cold. If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater and put in also some pieces of lean pork : and then cover it with cow-heel to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water boiled, with vinegar; aud is a very convenient thing to have in the house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or without batter. To dry Ilo;f s Cheeks. Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split theh .id, taking oil the upper bone, to make the 71U>M ESTIC COOKERY. ■J t chaw I a good shape ; mbit well with salt; next day lake away the brine, and salt it again the nillowma dav ; cover the head wttlihalfan ounce of saUpette , two ounces of bay salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head V often turned; after ten days, smoke it for a week like bacon. To force Hog s Ears. Parboil two pair of ears, or take some that have been soused : make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread crams, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs; raise the skin of the upper side of (he ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the cars in fresh butter, of a fine colour; then pour away the fat,anddrum them; make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with tat d X I 111 , L/l - J» ~ */ ears int’a stew-pan, and co\ er it close ; stew ll gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often When done enough take out the onion, place tin ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce ovei them. If a iarger dish is wanted, the meat fron two feet may be added to the above. Different ways of dressing Pig's Feet and Ears Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boi them tender: then take them out; boil somevinega and a little salt with some of the water, and whei cold putit over them. When they ire to he dressed dry them, cut the feet in tw o, and slice the ears fry and serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar They may be either done in batter, or only floured Pig's Feet and Ears fricasseed. Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dresscMEAT. 75 with cream. Cut the feet and ears irto neat bits, and boil them in a little inilk: then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal-broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, butter and salt. Jelly of Pig’fi Foot and Ears. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful o chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a lemon-form. Pig’s Harslet, Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make it tender; season with pepper, salt, sage, anda little onion shred fine; when mixed put all into a cawl, and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Boast it on a hanging jac k or by a string. Or serve ir. slices with parsley for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port.-w ine and water, and mustard just boiled up, and put into a dish. Mock Brawn. Boil a pair of neat's feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with common salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take out the bones, and ioil the feet and the pork together. Then roll it, very tight with a strung cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the doth till cold ; after which keep it in a sousing liquor, ns Is directed in the next article.domestic cookery. 76 Souse for Brawn, and, for Pig’s Feet and Bars. Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig, of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of! water, with four ounces ofsalt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. To male Black Puddings. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whale grits, to soak one night; and soak the ermn of a quartern loaf in rather more than tw-o quart.3 of new rnilk made hot. In the mean time prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. < hop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, and a gom quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg; mis these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six egg well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread grits, See., all ap with the seasoning: when wel mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits; and as you till the skins, pul it in at • rope* distances. Tie in links only half filled; and hoi in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, oo they will burst. When boiled, lay them betweei clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in th kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few rui uutosin water, wipe and putthem intoa Dutch oven If there are not skins enough put the stuffingfat. basins, and boil it covered with flour cloths; am slice and fry it when used. Anoth er way.—Soak all night a qu art of bru iso grits in as much boiling-hot rnilk as will swell th* 1 aid leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a goo quantity of penny-royal, some savoury and thyme salt, pepper, and allspice finely powdered, Mi the above with a quart of the blood, prepared a77 MEAT. bef..re directed; then half till the skins ai'terthey have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Roil a qoart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost;then dram them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice and four cloves, all in fine powder; two pounds of hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a haudful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny royal, and a =prig of thyme and knotted marjoram, hU minced tine; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread crums, that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half-fill the skius ; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and snaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent t* bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth White Hog's Puddings. When the skins have been soaked and clt as before directed, rinse and soak them all , in rose-water, and put into them the follow mixing: mix half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and antmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two eggs, a little orange-flower water, a 'ittle tine Lisbon sugar, and some lemon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet enough, wann a little in a panikin. la boilingmuch care must be taken to prevent the78 DOMESTIC COOKERY. puddings l'rom bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boi! them in milk and water. Lay them in a table-cloth til! cold. Hog’s Lard. Should becarefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water and boiled: run it into bladders that have been extremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the better the lard keeps: as, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be prepared with care. Mixed with but- ter, it makes a fine crust. To cure Hams. Hang them a day or two; then sprinkle them with a litile salt, and drain them another day; pound an ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these and rub them into each ham every day for s, and turn it. If a small one, turn it y for three weeks : if a large one, a week but do not rub after four days. Before ry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it • ays. Another way.—Choose the leg of a hog that is .,t and well-fed; hang it as above; if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of com- mon salt, all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle; the more the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and thr< v bran over it; thenhangitin a chimney where wood is burnt, and turn it some times for ten days.MEA I. 79 | Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder: half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry. and smoke it. two or three weeks. Another way, that oives a high flavour.— When the weather will permit, hang the h am three days; mix an ounce of saltpetre with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham; turn it twice a da in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped ; and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve; the latter will make it harder, and give it more of the flavour of West- phalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. A METHOD OF GIVING A STILL HIGHER FLAVOUR. —Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days; let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander-seeds, two ounces of juniper berries, an ounce of pepper, the same quantity of alkpice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce ofsal- pru'“ -l, a handful of common salt, and a head of shallot, all pounded or cut flue. Boil these altogether a few minutes, and pour then) over the ham; this quantity is ior one of ten pounds. Rub and turn it.every day for a fortnight then sew it. up in aDOMESTIC COOKERY. sa thin lineo bag, and smoke it three weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and run it in bran before drying. To make a Pickle that will keep for years, . or Hams, Tongues, or Beef, if boiled and skim- med between each parcel of them. • To two gallons of spring-water, put two pounds of coarse sugar, two pounds of bay, and two pounds and a half of common salt, and half a pound <> saltpetre, in a deep earthen glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will lit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they will bear, before vou put them into the pickle; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Rub the hams, 6ec. well with the pickle, aud pack them iu close ; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle will cover them. The pickle is notto be boileda. first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks ; a tonge twelve days, and beef in proportion to its size. They w ill eat well out ol the pickle without drying. tV hen they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan; and when it w-ill drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and there should be only a little saw- dust and wet straw burnt to do this; but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang them a week. To dress Hams. ! Iflong hung put the ham into water a night; and let it lie either in a holeduginthe earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with W'ater, two or three days, to mellow; covering it with a heavy tab. 10 keep vermin from it. Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water ; let it simmer four,81 MEAT. Cvi', or six hours, according to the size. When clone enough, it' before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, anti keep the dish hot over boiling water. Take oil’ the skin, and strew raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot, i‘reserve the skin as whole as possible, to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Excellent Bacon. Divide the hog, and take the chine out: it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be preserved better from being rusty, if they are left in. Salt the bacon six days, then drain it from the first pickle ; mix as much salt asyoujudge I roper with eight ounces of bay-salt, three ounces i f saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar to each 1 og, but first cut off the hams, Rub the salts well D, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and tr.ioke it a few days ; or dry without, by hanging n the kitchen, not near the lire. The manner of curing Wiltshire Bacon . Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain oflf for twenty-four hours ; then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of i ay-salt, not quite so much as half a pound ofsalt- 1 etre, and a pound of common salt; and rub this " off on the bacon, turning it every day for a month : t! en hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. Tliis quantity of suits is sufficient for the whole hog. MUTTON. Observations on cutting and dressing Mutton. Takeaway the pipe that runs along the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton; and if to be kept, a great time, rub the part close round the tail withg2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. salt, after first cutting out the kernel. The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the neck be cut ofl', to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should the weather be hot. Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon as brought in : then wipe dry. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind-quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for whatever fashion may authorise, putrid juices ouglitnot to be taken into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not lookof a good colour if it has hung long. Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat of what is roasted. Leg of Mutton. I f roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce, if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. Neck of Mutton. Is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it; but it is not advantageous to the family. The bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not do unless particularly desntd. The best end of the neck may be boiled, amd served with turnips; or roasted; or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. The scrags may be stewed in broth; or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, a few peppercorns, and a little rice, and served together. When a no«k it to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half- way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches The skin should not. be taken off tillMEAT. 83 boiled, ami tlien the fat will look the whiter. When there is mop' fat to the neck or loin of mut- ton than is agreeable to eat with the leau, it makes an uncommonly good suet pudding, or crust for a meat-pie. if cut very fine. Shoulder of Mutton roasted. Serve with oniou-sauce. The b ade-bone may be broiled. To dress Haunch of Mutton. Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the different modes: let it be washed with warm milk ami water, or vinegar, if necessary ; but when to be dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the out- side should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour or strong paper, and fold the haunch in; set it a great distance from the firo, and allow proportionable time for the paste; do not take it off till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer tothe fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. A gravy must be made of a pound ami a half of loin of old nmttoii, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt: brown it withalittie burnt sugar, and send itup in the dish ; but there should beagooddeal oi’gravy in the meat; for though long atthefire, tin-distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Sen e with currant-jelly sauce. To roast a saddle of Mutton. Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ;iake u off a quarter of an hour before serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with flour The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. Thedomestic cookery. 81 joint may belargeor small according to the company, it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad t requires a high and strong fire. Fillet o f Mutton braised. Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put overit, and then paste as for Yenison; roast it two hours. Do notlet it be the least brown. Have ready some French beaus boiled, and drained on a sieve ; and while tire mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in gvavy, and lay them on a dish with the meat over them. Marrico. Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; flour and fry them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Then put iliem into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions; the carrots aud turnips in dice, the onions sliced : but they must only be warmed,not browned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks at tire bottom of a stew-pan, the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them; give one boil, skim well, and theu set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours skim them; aud add pepper, sal(, and a spoonful of ketchup. To hash Mutton. Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean ; flour them, have ready a little onion, boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water : add to it a little gravy, and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of ven- ison, if the meat be tine.M MEAT. Pickled incumber, or walnut, cut small, warm iu it for change. To hoil Shoulder of Mutton icith Ousters. Hang it some days, then salt it well for two davs; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper, and a bit of nmce pounded : lay some oysters over it. and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it iu a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper corns, till quite teuder. Haverea<lv a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken olf. The stew-pan should be kept close covered. Breast of Mutton. Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers; or to eat cold, cow red with chopped parsley. Or half-boil, and then grill it before the tire ; in which case cover it with trams and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it. with bread, herbs, and seasoning ; then roll and boil; and serve with chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. Loin of Mutton. Roasted; if cut lengtlnv i»e a ; a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. To roll Loin of Mutton- Hang the mutton till tender; bone it; and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in tine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat and cover it with the stuffing ; roll it up tight and tit- il. JJalf-bake it. iu a slow oven ; let it grow cold: take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan; dour86 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the meat and put it in likewise ; stew it till almost ready ; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon pickle, half an hour hour before serving ; sprve it in the gravy and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement; but if to eat like hare, do not use these, nor the lemon-pickle. Mutton Ham. Choose a fine-grained leg of wether mutton, of twelve or fourteen pounds weight; let it be cut ham shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew- pan half a pound of bay-salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix, and make it quite hot; then rub it w ell into the ham. Let it. be turned in the liquor every day; at the end of four days put two ounces more of common salt; in twelve days • take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke, a week. It is to be used in slices, with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes, or eggs. Mutton Collops. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and cut from the pait next the leg, some collops very thin. Take out the sinews. Season the col- lops with salt, pepper, and mace ; and strew over them shred parsley, thyme,andtwoorthreeshallots: fry them in butter till half done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece of butter > -lbbed in flour; and simmer the w hole very gently live minutes. They should be served immediately or they will be bard. Mutton Cutlets in the Portugese way. Cut the chops; and half fry them with sliced shallot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay- leaves-; season w ith pepper and salt; then lay a87 MEAT. fore emeat on apiece of white paper, put the chop on >.t, and twist the paper up, leaving a bole lor the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Hobart; or, as the seasoning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. Mutton Steals Should be cut from a loin or ueck that has hung; if a ueck, the bones should not be long. Thev should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half-done, and often turned ; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the moment they arc done. Steals of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cucumbers. Quarter Cucumbers, and lay them into a deep di»h, sprinklethem with salt, and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stew-pan; drain the cucumbers, and putovnr the steaks ; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or weak broth on them ; stew uid skim well. Mutton Steals Maintenon. Half-fry, stew them while hot, with herbs, minis, and seasoning; put them iu paper immediately, and finish on the gridiroD. Be careful the paper does not catch; rub a bit of butter ou it first to prevent that. Mutton Sartsages. lake a pound of the rawest part of the leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled; chop it extremely smal', and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg: add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small : a quarter of a pound of grated hread, some of the anchovy liquor,DOMESTIC COOKERY. «8 and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed into a little pot, and. use it by rolling it into balls or sausage shape, and frying. If approved, a. little sh&Uotmay be added, or garlick, which is a great improvement. To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidnei/s. Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half' an hour, then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, ai: onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; boil them till therice is thick- Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten; and strew over them minis of bread, alittle pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a line brown. W bile the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and puti them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pau beuig cleared like- wise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps put round on the rice the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish wide hard eggs cutin half, the white being left on: or with different coloured pickles. An excellent llotch-potcli. .Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little, water with a beef or ham-bone. While these are. doing, fry some mutton or lamb-steaks seasoned, of a nice brown; three quarters of an hour before dinner, put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegetables over them; stew them, and serve altoge- ther in a tureen. \noth er.— Knuckleof veal, and scrag of mu Hon stewed with vegetables as above; to both add e bit (J butter rolled m llour.MEAT. H'J Mutton kebobbed. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that ou the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every bone: mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crutus and herbs; dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, ai d sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them, and fasten them ou a spit, ltoasl them at a quick, fire : set a dish under, iiotl baste them with a good piece of butter, and the liquor that comes from the meat: but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish: have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in ihe dish ; and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful ot dour with it; give tins a boil and pour it over the mutton, but first skim oil'the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. China Chilo- Mince a pint-basin of uudressedneck of mutton, orteg, and some of the fa!; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonlul of pepper, four spoo ' ils of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a slew- pan closeiv covered; simmer two hours, md serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, add a little. LAMB. Leg of Lamb, Should be boiled in a cloth, to look as white as possible. The loin fried i n stea ks and served i on ad, garnished with fried or dried parsley, spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or re sted.DOMESTIC COOKmlY. 90 Fore-quarter of Lamb. Roast it either whole o> iu separate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be- sprinkled over it. The neck a<ud breast together are called a scoven. Breast of Lamb aud Cucumbers. Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers uiceiy stewed. Shoulder of Lamb forced, icith Sorrel-sauce. Bone a shoulder of lamb, aud 1511 it up with forcemeat; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or if may be glazed only, aw. not braised. The method for both, see page US' Serve w ith sorrel-sauce under the lamb. ZL.~Z.Lamh Steals. Fry them of a beautiful brown; when served throw over them a good quantity of cruius of breac fried, aud crimped parsley; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour w ill bo given under the beai of Vegetables. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled if buttered paper's, either with crums and herbs, o without, arc n genteel dish, aud eat well. j Sauce for them, called, sauce Itubart, will b found in the list of Sauces. House-lamb Steals, white. Stew them in milk and water till very tender, wit i bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, an mace. Have really some veal gravy, and put th steaks into it; mix some mushroom powder, acu of cream, and the least bit of flour ; shake the si eat imo this liquor,stir it, and let it. get quite hot. Ju:MEAT. 91 before you take it up, put in a few white mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is very dear. House-lamb Steaks, brown. Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parsley; but dip them first intnegg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit o: flour and butler: and add to it a spoon- ful of port wine, and some oysters; boil it up. and then pat in the steaks warm ; let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. Lamb Cutlets with Spinach. koCut the steaks from the loin, and fry them; fh'‘ spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first; and then the cutlets round it. Lamb's Head and Hinge. This part is best from a house-lamb; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the v par itoly till very tender. Hare ready the liver aud lights three parts boiled and cut small: ste* them in a little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, tnd serve the mince round the head. Lamb's Fry. Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a jood deal of dried or frted parsley over if. Lamb's Sweetbreads. Blanch them, and put them a little while into ■dd water. Then put them into a stew-pan, with i ladlefn 1 of broth, some pepper and salt, and a 'mall bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace : ■tir in a hit of butter and dour and stew half an " Ur. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten n cream, with a little minced parsley and a fewDOMESTIC COOKERY. 92 grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus- tops to the other things. Do not let it boil after the cream is in , but make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. Fricasseed Lambstones. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them; fry of a beautiful brown, in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you have made the follow ing. sauce: thicken almost half a pint of veal-gravy, With a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mush room-ketch-* up, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a grate ot nutmeg, and the yolk ot an egg beaten well in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the- fire, and stir it well till it is hot, and looks white: but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve iu a very hot dish and cover !, Fricassee of Lambstones and Sweetbreads, f another way. Have read' some lambstones blauched, par boiled, and sliced. Flour two or three sweet breads: if very thick, cut them in two. Fry ail together with a few large oysters, of f fine yellow hrown. Pour the butter off; an< add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, an salt, two shallots, shred ine-, and a glass of whin w ine. Simmer ten minutes , then put a little grav \ to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by de grees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back :ntt the pan. and stir it till of aline thickness wi th.uk boiling, Garnish with lemon.POULTRY. 9:5 A very nice Dish. Take the best end of a neck of latnb, cut it into steaks, aud chop each bone so short as to make the steaks a! most round. Egg and strew with crums, herbs, and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown ; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle ofthe dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. Pies of the different meats are directed under tlie general head of savoury pies. PART ITT. POULTRY, GAME, Ac. To choose Poultry, Game, S.;c. A Turkey Cock.—If young, it has a smooh black leg, with a short spur. Thu eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her legs will be red and rough. Fowls.—If a cock is young, his spurs will be short; but. take ca:e to see they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will be close and dark. Pullets are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg : if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough ; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and a large- rump : there is a particular fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Black-legged fowls are most moist, if for roasting.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 91 Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one wMl be yellow, and there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red ; if fresh, the feet will be pliable ; if stale, dry and stiff. Geese are called gre^n till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble goose should be picked dry. Docks.—Choose them by the same rules, of hav- ing supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow ; a wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings ■ must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh : when they look flabby about the vent, and this partis discoloured, they are stale. The feet should b< supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are largertiian the wild, and arc thought best by some persons ; they should be fat and teuder ; hut many are de- ceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the w hole body of a small pigeon. The wood-pigeon is large, and the flesh dark- coloured : if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts ; they gray, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. Hare or Rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, tbe ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip05 poox.tr r. it. not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares tire tlesh pale. But they keep a good white by proper care; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if they inside is preserved from being uuivty. To know a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore leg : if there is none, it is a hare, i Partridges.—They are in season in autumn If young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if fresh, the vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stale. .. Pheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs; but if old, they are long and sharp. Directions for dressing Poultry and frame. "1 * All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with whitepaper. The cook must be careful iti drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take off the bitter where it has touched. In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy iu ; the line flavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require nx-re roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted ; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour: a middling one half an hour; and a very small one or a chicken, twenty miuntes. The tire must be very quick and clear before any fouls are put down. A capon will take from half an hour to thirty-fiveDOMESTIC COOKKRY. 96 minutes; a goose, an hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour ; pheasants, twenty minutes; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter; turkey- poults, twenty minutes ; grouse, a quarter of an hour ; quails, ten minutes; and partridges, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part requires most he; f. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turning. Hares and rabbits must be well attended ton ; and the extremities brought to the quick part of die. fire, to be done equally with the backs. . POULTRY. To boil Turkey. Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutraet, lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the tur- key in a floured cloth to make it very white. Ha' e ready a fine oyster-sauce made rich with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approve is and pour it over the bird or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen-birds are best for boiling, and should be young. To roast Turkey. The sinews of the. leg should be drawn, which- ever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread-stufling. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorching while the other pa-ls roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy inpoultry. 07 tl>c dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce- tureen. Add a few crumsand a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. Pulled Turkey. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter ; do not boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. To boil Foicl. For boiling, choose those that are not black-leg- ged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. ^ Hour them, aud put them into boiling wa- ter.—See time of dressing. Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery-sauce. D for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usuaily served to eat with them ; as likewise greens. To boil Fowl with Rice. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton- broi!> well skimmed; and seasoned with onion, mac.;, pepper, aud salt. About half an honr be- fore it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender ; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of the dish, and the ric- round it with- out the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such ; but the less liquor the fowl is done with the better. Cravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. • Fowls Roastcrl. Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded parsley.DOMESTIC COOIttHT. 98 A large barn-door fowl, well hung, ebould re stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat; and served w-ith gravy in the dish, and with bread-sauce. The head should be turned under the wing as a turkey. — Fowls broiled. Split them down the bark ; pepper, salt, and broil. Serve with mushroom-sauce ANOTHER way. Cut a large fowl into lour quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half-roast; or ha f-roast the whole fowl, aud Uuish either on the gridiron which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled, [hefowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the back after. Davenport Folds. Hang young fowls a night ; take the livers, be^ts, and tenderest parts of the guards shv. d very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yokes ot four eggs broiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and ca- ter till almost done, then dram them, and put the* into a stew-pan with butter enough to brown the*. Serve them with fine melted butter, and aspoontul of ketchup, of eit her sort, iu the dish. A nice way to dress a Fowl for a small Dish. Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl: make a force-meat of four ounces of veal, ty.’» ounces <>t scraped lean of ham, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef-suet, a tea-spoonful of lemon- peel minced quite tine, an anchovy, P*TPer:09 FOl’ATHY. anti a very little Cayenne. Beat ell in.* mortar, with a tea-cupful of crums, and the yolks and whites of three eggs. Stull' the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs and wings inwards ; tie the neck and rump close. Stew the fowl in awhile gravy; when it is done through and tender, add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and Hour; give it one boil, and serve ; the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. To force Ford, &c. Js to stuff auy part with force-meat, and it is put usually between the skin and flesh. To braise. Is to put meat into a stew-pan, covered with fat bacon : then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to be brown, celery, any bones or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies.) The bacon must be covered with :i paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on a slow stove; and, according to what it is, it w ill re- quire two or three hours. The meat is then to be taken out; and the gravy very uicely skimmed, aud set on to boil very quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded, put into the oven for a few minutes : and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow: brown, and it is best to put it on with a nice brush. Fricassee of Chickens. Boil rather more than half, in a small quantity of water let them cool; then cut up; and put to simmer in a little gravy made of the liquor they100 DOMESTIC COOKERY. are boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite tender, keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the fol- lowing manner : straiu it off, and put it back iuto the saucepan with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter; give it one boil; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the lire, but do not let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers; which are called the trimmings of the fowls. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin, and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can: dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butler from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy, well-seasoned, and thick- ened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another way.—Cut off the legs and the w'hole hack of a dressed chicken; if under-done the bet- ter. Pull all the white part into flakes free from skin ; toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut otf the neck end of the chicken; and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the mid- dle, with the back on it; and the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie. Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and fry bo tli in butter with great care, of a fine light brown;101 POULTRY. or if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay tne joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan ; with a veal or mutton gravy, aod a clove or two of garlick. Sim- mer till the chicken is quite tender. Half tin hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two ot currie-powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter ; and add this, with four large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeeze iu a little lemon. Slices of under-done veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c. make excellent currie. A dish of rice boiled dry must, be served. For directions to do this, see the article Rice in the Index. Another more easily made.—Cut up a chick- en or young rabbit; if chicken take off the skin. Roll each piece in a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie-powder. Slice two or three onions ; and fry them in butter, of a light brown then add the meat, and fry altogether till the meat begins to brown, l’ut it all into a stew-pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will be better than water : but the currie is richer when made of fresh meat. To braise Chickens. Bone them, and fill them with force-meat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-pan. and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or tw o of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices oi bacon, and then102 DOM ESTIC COOK El? Y. white paper ; rover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim otl the tatcarefuilv, set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the chicken into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. Ducks roasted. Serve with a fine gravy, and stuff one with sage and onion, a desert-spoonfid of crums, a bit <»i but- ter, and pe pper and salt: let the other be unsea- soned. To boil Ducks. Choose a fine fat duck; salt it two days, then boil it.slowly in a cloth. Serve it w ith onion-sauce, but melt the butter w ith milk instead of w ater. To stew Ducks. Half-roast a duck ; put. it into a stew-pan with a pint of beef-gravy, a few' leaves of sag- and mint rut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of on ion shred as tine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean; then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour longer. Pul in a piece of butter and a little' flour, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. To bash Ducks. Cut a cold duck into joints : and warm it, with- out boiling, in gravy, and a glass of port wine. To roast Goose. ' After it is picked, the. plugs of the feathers pul- led out, and the lmirs carefully singed, iet ;t be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tightJOS POULTRY. at th - Beck and rump, aud then roast. Put it iirst at a distance from the tire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast-hone. Ba.^e it very well. W heu the breast is risim , take cii the paper ; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flatted to table' Let a good gra\ y be s< nt in the dish. Gravy aud apple-sauce : gooseberry-sauce for a green goose. To stew Giblets. Do (heat as will bt directed for giblet>pie (under the head Pies;) season them with salt and pepper, and a ver\ small piece of inace. Before serving, give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in a tea-spoouful of flour. Pigeons. May be dressed in so many ways, that the are very useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much washing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed, or made into a pie; in either case, care must be taken not to over-do them, which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up in gravy made ready ; and force-meat balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, Jet beef-steaks be stewed iu a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. Season as usual, and put eggs. To stew Pigeons. T&ke care that they are quite fresh, and care* Cully cropped, drawn, ami washed; then soak themPOMESTIC COOKERY. 104 i ic a.. Wir In the mean time cut a hard white “ bSeTn d J»V if to pieklM «*. ! drain it and then boil it in milk and water; dram it a-aiu and lav some of it at the bottom of a stew, min0 Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well with pepper and salt; and cover them wi»h the remainder of the cabbage. Add a Imle Troth, and stew- gently till the pigeons are tender then put among them two or three Bpoonfui s of c-eani and a piece of butter and flour, for thick- enin'- ’ Vfter a boil or two, serve the buds m the middle and the cabbage placed round them. Inoth er w a v -Stew the birds in a good brown „Tav\ either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, or a little ketcnup. To broil Pigeons. After cleauiug, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and broil them very nicely ; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms mine U-d but- ter, and serve as hot as possible. Roast Pigeons, Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole ; and seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. To pickle Pigeons. Bone them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt m me pov der : then turn them again, and Uc th neck ano rump with thread. Put into boding water : lei them boil a minute or two to plump : take then out, and di- them well, then put them boding mi into the pickle, which must be made of equal quan- tities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nut105 POULTRY. meg, aud iwo or three bay-leaves. W hen it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quar- ter of an hour wdl do them; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out. wipe them, and let them cool. Wheu the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down with a blad- der to keep out the air. f' - Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow equal in quan- tities, with sweet herl>3, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeons in Jelly. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled : or boil a calf’s or a neat’s foot; put die broth into a pan .vith ablade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon- peel, a slice of lean bacon, nd the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiliing with the whites of two eggs ; then strain it through a thick rioth dipped in boiling w ater, and put into a sieve. T! ■ fat must be perfectly removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. The SAME, a BEAUTIFUL J>isii.—Pick two very nice pigeons; aud make them look as well as pos- sible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads aud the fee! on, but the nails must be clipped close to the elaws. Roar.*, them of a very nice brown ; and when done, put a little sprig of myrlle into the bill ot each. Have ready a savoury jellv. as before, and with it half- tilt a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down o'i the dish you mean it to he served in. Wo o the jelly aud the bin's are cold, see that no100 DOMESTIC COOKERY. gravy Langs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full twenty- four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner thing, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with ome thread, and the legs bent as it the pigeon sat upon them. To pot Pigeons, Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper: lay them close in a small deep pan; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wauted. Cover them w ith butter, then with very thick paper tied down and bake them. hen cold, put them dry into pots that i w ill hold two or three in each; and pour but- ter over them, using that which was L ked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with afme forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c. and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. Larks, and other small Birds. Draw and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew bread-crumbs upon them till halt done ; brown, aud serve with fried cruins roi nd.107 SAM K. «AHK, &C. To keep Game, SjC. Game ought not to be thrown away eren when it ha9 been kept a very long time ; for when it seems to be spoiled, it may often be made dt for eating, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have ready a large saucepan on' boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one ; drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in; then hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt the inside3 well. Before roasting, wash them well. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are uever drawn; and perhaps the heat might make them worse, as the water could not pass through them ; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. Pheasants and Partridges. Roast them as Turkey; and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlick), and bread-sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should net be overpowered by lemon. For the manner of trussing a pheasant or partridge, see plate IX. To pot Partridge. Clean them nicely ; and season with mace, all - spice, white pepper, and salt, in tine powder. Rub108 DOMESTIC COOKERY. every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possi j y can. Put a good deal of butter on them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A very cheap way of potting Birds. Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them iuto proper pieces for helping, pack them close into a large potting-pan, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted than when the birds are done whole. The butter that has covered potted things will do for basting, or for paste for meat pies. To clarify butter for potted Things. Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts ov er ihe potted things : they will sink to the bottom. To pot Moor Game. Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely : then dry them ; and season inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake them in a very slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and pul one bird into each pot, which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is, by warming it in \ basin set in a bowl of hot water. -t Grouse. Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be109 GAME. twisted under the wing. They must not be over- done. Seive w ith a rich gnu y in the dish, and bread : nuce. The sauce for wild fowl as will be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. To roast Wild Fowl. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. It ild fowl require much less dressing than tame : they should be served of a tine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish: and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking oft' the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take oft' the fishy taste which wild fowl some- times have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes wi'h this; then take away the pan and baste constantly with butter. Wild Duels, Teal. Widgeon. Dun-birds, 6<c. Should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter; and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up, put a good gravy upon them, and serve with shallot-sauce, in a boat. Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails. Keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off from the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. For the manner of trussing a woodcock or snipe, see tlate IX. Buffs and Reeves Are skewered a3 quails; put bars of bacon overno DOMESTIC COOKERY. them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. To dress Plovers. Roast the green ones in the same way a? wood- cocks and quails (see above), without drawing; and serve on a toast.. Gray plovers may be either roasted, or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. Plover’s Eggs. Are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil thorn ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin'.' To roast Ortolans. Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on n bird-spi', aud roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of. it spoils the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them with crums of bread. Guinea and Pea Fowl Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in th« same way (see page 107. Hares, If properly taken care off, will keep a great time* and even when the cook fanceis them past eating, may be in the highest perfection ; which if eaten when fresh-killed, they are not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot, pre- vent this; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or live days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soom as a hare comes iu it should be wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, aud the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Re- peat this wiping every day; mix pepper aud ginger and rub on the inside; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. If the spice is applied eariy itIll GAME. v il prevent thaf musty taste which long keepiug in the damp occasions, and which also ail'ects the Btu fling. An old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. To roast Here. After it is skinned, let it be extremely well wa iied, and then soaked an hour or two in water: and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in viuegar. If however it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stutling into the belly, and then sew it up. Haste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, will r move it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife to let it out. The hare should tie kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve will) a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For 'tufting, use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crums of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. For the manner of trussing a hare, see plate IX. To jug an old Hare. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up ; and sea- son it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg. Put it iuto a jar with an onion a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef- and the carcass-bones over all. Tie the jar down witli a bladder, and leather or strong papei; and put /t into a saucepau of water up to112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the neck, but no higher. Keep the water boding five hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour; and it the meat gets co'd, warm it in this, but not to boil. Broiled and hanked Hare. The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine ; the legs or wings must be seasoned first; rub with cold butter, an l serve very hot. The other parts wanned with gravy, and a little stuffing, may be served separately. To pot Hare, For wrhich an old one does well, as likewise for soup arul pie. . , . .. _ After seasoning it, bake it w ith butter, tv non cold, take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough, add salt, macf, pepper, and a piece of the finest fresh butter nuuti d in a spoonful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed, put it into small pots and cover with butter. The legs and backs should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be put over them. Rabbits ?dai be eaten various ways, as follows: Roasted with stuffing mid gravy, like hare, or without stuffing ; with sauce of the liver and part, lev chopped in melted butte r, pepper, and salt; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boiling, sec plate IX. Boiled and smothered with onion sauce: me butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in join ts, with dried or fried parsley. * lie same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed (in page 99) for chickens.GAME. 113 In a pie, as chicken, with forcemvat, &c. In tbit- way they are excellent when young, Potted. To make a Rabbit taste much like Hare. Choose one that is young, but full grown; hang it in the skin three or four days ; then skin it; and lay it without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar Bnste ;t occasionally for forty hours; then stuff if, and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. To pot Rabbits. Cut up two or three young but full-grown ones, ami take the leg-bones off at the thigh ; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them w ith pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder, Make the top as smooth as you tan. Keep out the heads and the carcasses, but take off the meat about the r.i ck. Put a good deal of uniter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan ; then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. To blanch Rabbit, FovcL SfC. Is fo set it on the tire in a small quantity of cold water, and let it boil : as soon as it boils, it is to bo taken out, and put into cold wateT for a few minutes. PART IY. SOUPS AND GTfAVIES. fl-.v ra' directions respecting Soups and Gravitft U l,en there is any fear of gravy-meats being spoiled114 DOMESTIC COOKERY. before it be wanted, s< asm. well, and fry it lightly* xvhich will preserve it two days longer; but tue gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies are to be put by, let them be changed every day into fresh scalded pans. Whatever has vegetables boiled in it, is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. IS ever Keep ary gravy, See. in metal. When fat remains on any soup, a tea-cupful of flour and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it oft. If richness, or greater consistency, be wanted, a good lump of buUer mixed with flour, and boded in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give tli > full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies; and they are best if made thedav before they are wanted. Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan, and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c. with butter, than when water is put vo the meat at lirst; and the gravy that is drawu from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Do not use the sedimem of gra- vies, &c. that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong', boil a turnip with them, it for sauce; this will make them mild. If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in bailing, that the watery particles may evaporate. A clear jelly of cow heels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. Truffles and morels thicken soups and sauces, and give them a tine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, then simmer them a few minutes115 SOUPS. in water, and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. soups, See. Scotch Matt on Broth. Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut ofl Ihe scrag, aud put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small; and put them in soon enough to get quite tender; add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew thr hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving, put i ome chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter- dish. Veal Broth. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. Colouring for Soaps or Gravies. Put four ouuees of lump-sugar, a gill of water, and four ounces of the finest butter, into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it. with a wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of water; boil, skim, and when cold, bottle and cork it close. Ad i to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. A char broom Stock for Gravy-Soap, or Gravy. Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and116 domestic cookery. a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced into a stew-nan with two or three scraped carrots, two oDions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced,, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared, it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown gravy, put some of the above colouring, and boil a few miuutes. An excellent■ Soup. Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of un- dressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it w ith a good beef-broth made the day betoi e, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. An excellent white Soup. Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after cutting ofT its much meat as will make collops, two or three shank bones of mutton nicely cleaned, aad a quarter of a pound of very fine undressed lean gammon of bacon; with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper; boil all in three quarts o! water, till the meat falls quite to pieces. Next, day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a saucepan of the nicest tin. If maca- roni is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold wviter. V er- rnicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows; Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar,' with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mix aSOUPS. 117 Jar^c slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat it with a piece of stale white bread ; add all this loa pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, aud a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve: this thickening is then tit for putting to the '•est, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. A plainer white Soup. Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last article ; and both served together, with the addition of a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream, and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness. Giblct Soup. Scald and dean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets : set tbem to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal ; an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five"pints of water, and sim- mer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces') are quite tender: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or ladeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Partridge Soup. Take two old partridges ; skin (hem ; and cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 118 a stick of celery, and three large onions cut ir.'o slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stew- pan, with live pints of boiling water, a few pepper- corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently two hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread; when it is near boiling,skim it, pour in atureen, and serve tt up hot. Macaroni Soup. Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart o^ good stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a line sieve. Then add to- gether that, the two liquors, a pint or more of cream boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not letit boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A pepper-pot, to be served in a Tureen. To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery; and onions in both. Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl, and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On .first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster or crab, cleared from the bones. Season with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. 1 epper-pot may be made of various things, andsofts. 110 is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables aod pulse. Turnip Soup. Take off a knuc kle of veal all the meat that ran be made into cutlets, See. and set the remainder on to stew witlp an union, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; co^er it close; and let it do on a slow tire, four or five hours at least. Strain it and set it by till next day ; then take tne fat and sediment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour, with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roil simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. Old Peas Soup. Save the water of boiled povk or beef; and if too tali put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entirely, with roast-beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas; the smaller the quantity of water at first, the better. Simmer ill the peas will pulp through a colander; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas p ith two caurpts, a turnip, a leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender. The last requires less time ; an hour will do for it. When ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried nint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt, ?.ito he tureen ; and pour the soup in. Green Peas Soup. In shelling the peas, divide the old from the young ; put. the old ones with an ounce of butter, l» pint ot water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or120 DOMESTIC COOKERY. two, two onions, pepper and salt, to stew till you can pulp tbe peas; and wbea you have done so. put to the liquor that stewed them some more water. < the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the ■ young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, an< I salt and pepper to relish properly, and st- w till quite soft. If. the soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults may be removed by adding au ounce or twro of butter, mixed with a l spoonful of rice, or wheat-flour, and boiled w ith it half an hour. B efore serving, boil some green mini shred fine in the soup. When there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary; but if meat be preferred, a pig’s foot oi ham bone, &c. may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, i the soup is required to be very rich. When peas first come in, >r are very young, the- stock may be made of the shells washed, and boiler till they will pulp with the above; more thickening, will then be wanted. Gravy Soup. Wash and soak a leg of beef: break the bone and set it on the fire with a gallon of water, a !arg< bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced auc. fried a fine brown (but not burnt), two blades o mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, ant forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is as riel ts you choose ; then take out the meat, which wil be fit forthe servants’ table with a littie of thegravy Next day take off the cake of fat; which will sent for basting, or for common pie-crust. Have ready such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cutcarrots turnips, aud celery, small, and simmer till leader some people do not like them to he sent to tabhSOURS. 121 only the flavour of them. Roil vermicelli a quarter of an hour; etui add to it a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom-ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and serve iu the tureen. Vegetable Soup. Pare and slice live or six cucumbers; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound of fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle lire, half an hour; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours ; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it. Another way.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put that, some celery, sw eet herbs, white pepper, a nd salt to the above; stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add to your liking; and stew them tender iu the soup. If approved you may add an anchovy, ami a spoonful of ketchup. Carrot Soup. Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt, into a saucepan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin; strain the 10domestic cookeky i-2d soup on them, and stew them till soft enough t< pulp through a hair sieve, or coarse cloth; then boi the pulp with the soup, which is to he as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before i is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only Lite ra part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Onion Soup. Into the water that has boiled a leg or necko mutton, put carrots, turnips, and (if you have any a shaukbone, and simmer two hours. Strain it o: six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and sene Put into a little roll, or fried bread. Spinach Soup. Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, tw« onions, a head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, wit) a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pinto broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled7 •few till the vegetables are quite tender; work then through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon; thei to the pulp of the vegetables, and liquor, put ; quart of fresh water, pepper und salt, and boil al together. Have ready rorae suet dumplings, th size of a walnut; and before you put the soup int the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not b shred tot' fine; and take care that it; is quite fresh Scotch Lech-Soup. Put the water that has boiled a leg of routtoi into a stew-pot. with a quantity of choppod leeks and pepper, and salt; simrnei them an hour; :hei >nix some oatmeal with a little cold water, quit smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow parSOOPS. 12S of the fire, anil let it simmer gently; bui take care that, it does not burn to the bottom. Hare Soup. Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it in pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lea a beef, two or three shank bones of mutton well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs: pour on it two quarts 01 boiling water; cover the jar into which you put these with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces; strain oft'the liquor, and give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces; and add a spoonful of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat balls, fried of a good brown should be served in the tureen. Ox-Iiump Soup. Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these; and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like gravy-soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you like. Hessian Soup and Ragout. Clean the root of a neat’s tongue very nicely, and half an ox’s head, with salt and water, and soak them afterwards in water only. Then stew them in five or six quarts of water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup stand to be cold; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot meat-pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup pint ofsplit peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a hunch of sweet herbs and two heads of celery. Simmer them with- out the meat, till the vegetables are done enongh to pulp with the peas through a sieve : and the soupdomestic cookery. 124 willthen be about the thickness of cream. Season 1 it with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in fine powder. If <he peas are bad, the soup may not be thick enough; ihen boil in it a slice of roll, and put it through toe colander; or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. , For the Ragodt, cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part, of the fat of the root of the tongue, into small thick pieces. Rub these with some of the above seasoning, as you put them to a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before i the vegetables were added ; flour well, and simmer r : them till nicely tend er. Then put in a little mush- room and walnut ketchup, a little soy, a glass of' port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard . and boil all up together before served. If for i company, small eggs and forcemeat balls. j This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a small expense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for the family. i Soup a hj Sap. Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound ol beef sliced thin, a pint of gray peas, an onion, and three ounces of rice, in six pints of water, to five strain it through a colander: then pulp the peas to i t, and turn it into a saucepan again with twt heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and adc pepper and salt; and when you serve, add alst fried bread. Portable Soup. Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or tw< shins of beef, and three pounds of beef, it as inucl water only as will cover them. Take the marrov out of the bones : put any sort of spice you like125 SOUPS. »ud three large onions. When the meat is done to rags, strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold, take off the cake of tat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin saucepan, and set it on a pretty quick tire, but do Dot let it burn. It must boil fast aud uncovered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put it into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day , then pour it into a round soup china dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove, and let it boil, aud be now and then stirred uati! the soup is thick and ropy; then it ts done enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basins turned upside down, to form cakes; and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. W hen they are to be used, melt them in boiling water; and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or anything else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country, or at sae, where fresh meat is not always at hand ; as by this means a basin of soup may be made in five minutes Sovp Maigre. Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three min- utes ; then put to it five heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, twocabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes ; then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful ot beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace ; and if ou have any white beat leaves, add a laige handful of them cut S {'oil gently an hour. Just before servihg, beatDOMESTIC COOKERY. 126 in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas7 four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnep : then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve. Then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. Stock of brown or white Fish Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and t wo pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces; cover them with water; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, auction stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots- sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hone and a half closely covered, and then strain it off torr use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. Eel Soup. Take three pounds of small eels : put to them two quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till fish is quite broken ; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a lea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improve- ment. Skate Soup. Make it of the stock fish for soup (as directed in the last page,) with an ounce of vermicelli boil- ed in it, a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs127 soups. Stir it near but not >n the tire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and ' then soaked in the soup an hour. Excellent Lobster Soup. Tffke the meat from the claws, bodies, aud tails, of six small lobsters ; take away the brown fur, and the bag in the head ; beat the tins, chine, and small claws in a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and and soup. Serve with forcemeat balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crums. and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. Craw-fish or Prawn Soup. Boil six whitings, and a large eel (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned,) with as much wa- ter as w ill cover them : skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a iittle thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty craw-fish, or a hundred prawns ; pound the shells and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs: put this liquor over the shells in a sieve; then pour the etJu: r soup clear from the sediment. Chop a lob- ster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef- gravy ; and also the tails of the craw-fisli fir the prawns, and some flour and butter ; <nd season as may be liked, if not high enough.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 128 Oyster Soup. Take two quarts of fish stock, as directed ir. page 126; beat the yolks often hard eggs, and th< hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, aud add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour ; then strain it off, and put it aud the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five miuutes : have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way, on the side of the fire, till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve all together. Oyster Mouth Soup. Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, three blades of mace, and black pepper. When strained, pour it on a hundred and fifty oyster», ■without the beards, and a bit of butter robed in Hour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. GRAVIES. General directions respecting Grades. Gra^y may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the kidney, as of any other meal pre- pared in the same way. An ox-kidnev, or milt makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, aud prepared as other meat; aud so will the shank-end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. The shank-bones of mutton.a're a great improve- ment to the richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour them clean. Tan-agon gives the flavour of French cookery, e:m1 in high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a short time before serving.CRAY IE9. 129 To dress Gravy that will keep a Week. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pi a with- out any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn : let it stay till all the gravy that conies out of the meat is dried up into it again; put as much water as will covei ihe meat, aud let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, aud a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, aud keep it in a eoo! place. Do not take off the fat till going to be used. Clear Gravy. Slice beef thin; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it: put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of all- spice, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it with hoi water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times; then cover it, and simmer till quite stroug. Cullis, or l>roivn Gravy. Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the veai with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onious, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, aud three cloves. Cover the stew pan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices came out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the the pan with good beef-broth, boil and skim it, then sim- mer an hour: add a litttle water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick : boil it half an hour, aud strain it. This will keep a week.DOMESTIC COOKtitY. 130 Bechamel, or white Sauce, Cut lean veal into small slices, and t’ue same Quantity of lean bacon or ham : put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit ot thyme, and a bay-leaf; fry the whole over a very SI0W fire, but not to brown it; thicken it with flour; then pat an equal quantity of good broth, and rich cream , let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the time : strain it through a soup-strainer, A Gravy withoat Meat. Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt lemon-peel grated, a brused dove or two, and a spoonful of w alnut-pickle, or mushroom ketchup, into a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it coveved twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold, take off the fat. A rich Gravy. Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quan- tity wanted ; slice onions thin, and. flour both ; fry them of a light pale brown, but do not on any ac- count suffer them to get black: put them into a stew -pan, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savoury, a small bit of kuotted marjoram, the same of tarra- gon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black, peppers, a clove or tw o, and a bit of ham, or gam- mon, of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. ) i for a hare? or stewed fish, anchovy should be added.GRAVIES. 131 Gravy for a Fowl when there is no Meat to make it of. Wash the feet nicely, end cut them and the neck small; simmer them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quart er of a pint of water, till half-wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, and it will be very good. Veal Gravy. Make it as directed for Cullis (page 129); but leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn very slowly ; and if for white dishes, do not let the meat brown. Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison. Pick a very' stale woodcock or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails,) and simmer with as much unseasoned meat-gravy as you will want. Strain it and serve in the dish. Strong Fish Gravy. Skin two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut and wash them very clean; cut them into small pieces, and put into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add a little crustof bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spnruful of horse-radish. Cover close and simmer, add a bit of butter and flour, and toil with the above. Savoury Jelly to put over cold Pies. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or ghoul-132 DOMESTIC COOKERT. tier of veal, or a piece of scrag of that or mutton ; or if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cow heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, ami a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour if through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to pre- vent waste. Jelly to cover cold Fish. Clean a maid, and put it into three quart of wa- ter, with a calf s foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse- radish. an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly ; strain it off: when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemou. Boil without stirring ; and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve , with a cloth in it. Corer the fish with it when cold.SAUCES. 133 PART V. SAUCES, &c. A very good, Sauce, especially to hide the had colour of Fowls. Cat the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley, and hard eggs : add salt, and mix them with butter; boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do for roast rabbit. White Sauce for Fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, White Meat, Fish, or Vegetables. It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this fa- vourite sauce, as the proportion of that tlavour is bvt small. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit; or a little broth, that may be in the house; or the feet and necks of chicken, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some sliced onion, some white pepper-conis, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good ; then strain it, and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour, salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may bead ded after the sauce is token off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but. if yon have any creaxn it is better; and the fomi is apt to curdle. Sauce for Wild Find. , Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat grav a little shallot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace, for ten minuti s : put in a bit ot butter, and flour, give it one boil, and poor it through the birds. Tn134 DOMESTIC COOKERY. general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so if liked. Another for the same, or for Ducks. Serve a rich gravy in the dish; cut the breast into slices, but do not take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over be- fore you help. An excellent Sauce for Carp or boiled Turkey. Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped hue, not washed ; set it over the fire ; and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a tine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce- tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon : stir >1 well, to hinder it from curdling. Sauce jbi' Fowl of any sort. Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port win - as of gravy ; aud pour it into the dish, or a boat. Sauce for cold Fowl, or Partridge. Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two desert spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, a shallot, Cayenne if approv- ed, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. All shook! be pounded before the oil is added. Then strain it. Shallot-vinegar, instead of shallot eats well. A very fne Mushroom Sauce for Fowls, or Rabbits. Wash, and pick a pint of young mushrooms, andSAUCES, ni 'i them with salt, to take off the tender skiu. them into a saucepan with a little salt, some nui meg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done ; then pour it round the chick- ens, &c. Garnish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done white, with a little mushroom-powder with the cream, &c. Lemon White Sauce for Idled Fowls. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon- thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gen- tly till it tastes well of the lemon : then strain it; and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a desert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together: add salt to your taste. Liver Sauce. , Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as directed for lemon-sauce, (page 138,)with a very little, pepper aid salt, and some parsley. Egg Sauce. I Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces ; then put them to melted buttei. Onion Sauce. Peel the onions, and boil them tender : squeeze tin water from them, then chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water ; boil it up once, and serveDOMESTIC COOKERY. .or boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roas: mutton. A turnip boiled with il«* onions makes them milder. Clear Shallot Sauce. Put a few chopped shallots into a little gre vy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar: sea- son with pepper and salt: boil half an hour. To make Parsley Sauce when no parsley bates arc to be had. Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, and boil it ten minutes in some water. Use this water to melt the butter ; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to look like parsley. Green Sauce, for Green Geese or Ducklings. Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil then* up. Bread Sauce. Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little Hour ; boil the whole up together, and serve. Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a saw opan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of to egg . Make it quite hot. but do not boil it; -queeze iu the juice of half a lemon, and strain it. through a sieve. Sauce Robert, for Rumps or SteaL . 1 "8 pier ip butter, the size of an egg, iuto aSAUCES. J37 saucepan, set it over the fire, and wlua browniug, tlirow in a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry them brown, but do not let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry : then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and sab, and boil it gently ten minutes ; skim off the fat; add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, and pour i: round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. ' Benton Sauer, for hot or cold ro<ut Beef. Grate, or scrape very tine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. Sauce for Fish Pies, where Cream is not or dated. Take equal quantities of white wine (not sweet,) vinegar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup ; boil them up with an anchovy ; strain , and pour it through a funnel into the pie after it is baked Another.—Chop an auchovy small, and boil it up with three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of butter and flour. Tomata Sauce, for hot or cold Meats. Put tomatas, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar; and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skin3 fro . the pulp ; and mix tbi with capsicum-vue- gar, and a few doves of garlic pounded, which inn.-i .xith be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to your taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne may b»' used hi- ll138 DOMESTIC COOKKRY. stead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool place. Apple. Sauce, for Goose and roost Pork. Pare, core, and slice, some apples: and put them iu a stone j;ir, into a saucepan of water, or on a. hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or twos of water be put in, to hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and' put to them a piece of butter tbe size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a sauee- tureen. The old Current-Same for Venison. Koil an ounce of dried currents in half a pint of; water, a few minutes ; tlieu add a small tea-cupful! of bread-crums, six cloves, a glass c port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth.. Lemon Sauce. Cut thin dices of lemon into very small dice, aud i put them into melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Conner Sauce for Mutton. Chop six shallots fine ; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, s spoonful of vinegar, some pepper, and salt. Serve in a beat. Ham Saute. When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat clean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin ; put it into a saucepan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow fire ; aud stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. W hen it has been on some time, put to it a small It: f* t r fr til' t: k h i t in hi! * * i •i, I,SAUCES. 139 bundle of swed herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy; cover it np, and let it stew over a gentle hre. When it has a good flavour of the horbs, strain ofl the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. A very fine Fish Sa uce. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut-ketchup, twelve anchovies and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut-pickle, the nmi and juice of a large lemon, four or five shal- lots, some Cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea- spoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them close, and seal the top. Another.—Chop twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten shallots, and scrape three spoon- fuls of horse-radish ; which, with ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy-liquor, a quart of hock or Rhenish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart: then strain ofl ; and w hen cold, add three large spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked. Fish Sauce without Butter. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not be hard,) wilh an oaion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the following spices lightly bruised; four cloves, two blades of ma^e, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with tw o anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spooD- ful of ketchup, In the mean time, have ready and140 DOMESTIC COOKERY. well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle tire, keeping a basin in one hand, into which loss 1 the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil I them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce a-la-Craster. Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound oi the best. , anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and all- spice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs - (namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted mar- joram,') and a little parlsey and sliced horse-radish; ’ on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a . pint and a half of strong gra'y. Simmer all gently, for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use: the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. ^ An excellent substitute for Cap<r Sauce. Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become n bad colour, cut, but do not chop it fine ; put it to melt- ed butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a des- sert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. J j Oyster Sauce. Save the liquor in opining the oysters; and iioil i it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel i. In the mean time throw the oyster into cold water and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it iatc a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixer , with a little milk, as will make sauce enough; bu first rub a little flour with it.141 SAUCES. Set them cner the lire, and stir all the time : and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them otf, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it; for, if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improve- ment. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. Lobster Sauce. Pound the spawn, and two anchovies ; pour on them two spoonfuls of gravy ; strain all into some butter melted as will be hereafter directed ; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. Another way.—Leave out the anchovies and gravy : and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you like. Many pre- fer the flavour of the lobster and salt only. Shrimp Sauce. If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a little water over them to wash them ; put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of a lemon. Anchovy Sauce. Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put them to some Hour and butter, and a little drop of water: stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are good, they will be dissolved ; and the colour w ill be better than by the usual way. To melt Butter; which is rarely well done though a very essential article. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to lour ounces of the best butter, on a trencher.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 342 Put it into a small saucepan, anil two or three ta- ble-spoonfuls of hot water ; boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of wa- ter requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Vingaret, for cold Fowl, or Meat. Chop mint, parsley, and shallot, mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. Shallot Vinegar. Split six or eight shallots: put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with vinegar; stop it, and in a month it will be fit for use. Camp Vinegar. Slice a large head of garlick ; and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cay- enne, two tea-spoonful of real soy, two of walnut- ketchup, four anchovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it the colour of laven- der drops. Let it stand six weeks; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. Sugar Vinegar. To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil and skin. thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast! Stir it nine days; then barrel, and set it in a place where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bunghole. Make in March, it will be ready in six months. When sufficiently sour it may be bottled, or may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. Gooseberry Vinegar. Boil spring water; and when cold, put to everySAUCF.S. 143 three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often; then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast; cover the bunghole with a bit of slate, &c. as above. 1’he greater quantity of sugar and fruit, the strong- er the vinegar. Cucumber Vinegar. Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers, and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large onions sliced, tvro or three shallots, a lit- tle garlick, two large spoonfuls of salt, three tea- spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days, give the whole a boil; when cold, strain, and filtre the liquor through paper. Keep in small bottles, to add lo salad, or eat with meat. Wine Vinegar. After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been slrained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to ev- ery hundred-weight put fifteen gallons of water— set the cask, and put yeast, &c. as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on which so great a profit is made, a bar- rel or two might always be kept preparing, ac- cording to what suited. If the raisins of wine were ready, that kind might be made ; if a great plenty of gooseberries made them cheap, that sort; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar—so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. NaHurtions for Capers. Keep them a few days after they are gathered ; then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, cover.144 DOMESTIC COOKr.ET. They will not be fit to eat for some months ; but are then finely flavoured and by many preferred to capers. To make Mustard. Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by de- grees, with boiling water, to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth : add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar close covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon ; w hich should be wiped daily round the edges. A mother way, for immediate use. Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to to bo quite smooth, and add a little raw cream, it is much softer this way, is not Lifter, and will keep well. The patent mustard is by manv preferred, and it is perhaps as cheap, bc-ing alw ays ready ; and if the pots are returned, three-pence is allowed for each. A tea-spoonful of sugar, to half a pint of nn; - fard, is a great imnrovuient, and softens it. Kitchen Pepper. Mix in the finest powder, one ounce of gi ger of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica p<-pper, half au ounce of each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in a bottle—it is an agree- able addition to any brown sauces or soups. Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much fan her than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded ; and should be done in quantities that may he wanted in three or four months. Nutmeg need not be done—bio 'he others should be kept in separate bottles, with a little label on each.SAUCES. To dry Mvshr<vms " ipc them clean ; and of the large take oat the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cold oven, and keep them in paper bags, in a dry place, When used simmer them in the gravy, and the will swell to near their funner size; to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up iuto them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder; ar.d keep in a dry plat \ or in paper. Mushroom Powder. Wash half a peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh,'’and free them from grit and dirt with flannel; scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm eaten ; put them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two Urge onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dr enough to beat to powder, then out the powder in small bottles, corked, and tied closely and keep in a dry place. A tea-epoonful will give a very tinp flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just before serviug, and one boil given to it after it is put in. To choose Anchovies. They are preserved in barrels, with bay-salt; ro other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy; Tl,d best look red and mellow, and the bones moist140 DOMESTIC cookery and oily ; the flesh should be high-flavoured, the- iquor reddish, and have a fine srnell. Essence of Anchovies. Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and without the bone, bui. with some of their own liq- uor strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes—when cold, strain and bottle it. To keep Anchovies token the liquor dries, j Pour on them beef-brine. To make Sprats taste like Anchovies. Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay-salt., an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal-prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal; all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened down with a bladder. These are pleasent on broad and butter; but use the best for sauce. Forcemeat. Whether in the form of stufting-balls, or for pat- ties, makes, a considerable part of good cook- ing, by the flavour it imparts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given , but the follow observations may be useful, and habit will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the tase. At many tables, where every thing else is well done, it is common to find very had stuffing. According to w hat it is wanted for, should beSAUCES. 147 the selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least must be used. No one flavour should predominate greatly; yet, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of the fort emeat, as well as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. Forcemeat Ingredients. Cold fowl or veal. Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef-3uet. Crums of bread. Parsley. White pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. Yolk and white of eggs well beaten to bind the mixture. Oysters. Anchovy. * Tarragon. Savory. Penny-royal. Knotted maijoram. Thyme. Basil. Yolks of hard eggs. Cayenne. GarKck. Shallot. Clives. Jamaica pepper, in fine powder, or two or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may bo made, without any striking flavour ; and to those may be added some of the different ingredients of the second column, to vary the taste. Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Meat. Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet, a small quantity of onion, some parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt, nnlmpg. or pr ded mace, and either white pepper, or Cayenne, and bread-cruras.148 DOS! F.ST1C COOKERY. Pound it in a mortal, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat pat- ties the mixture as above. For cold Savoury Pics. The same ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The livers (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls), mixed with fat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and seasoned as above, are excellent. For Hare, see to roast, page 111. Ditto, for baked Pike, page 16. Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 17. Ditto, for Soles, page 17. Ditto, for Mackerel, page 15. Ditto, for Fish Pie, page 152. Very fine Forcemeat Balls, for Fish Soups, or Fish stewed, on maigre dags. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of an hard egg a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table spoonfuls of bread crums, one ditto of oyster-liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long beaten: make into balls, aDd fry of a fine brown in butter. Forcemeat as for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol. A pound of line fresh suet, one ounce of ready, dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crums of bread, a little shallot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmrg, mace, penny royal, parsley, and lemon- thyme, finely shred: beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites seperately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste : roll into small balls, and boil them i;j fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, . nd drain them before the fire. If the suet be moistSAUCES. 149 or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls ma«le this way are remarkably light; but being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. Little Eggs for Turtle. Beat three hard y olks of eggs in a mortar, and moke into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. Browning to colour nvd flavour wade-dishes. Beat to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear lire, and when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when ofa very tine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very small degrees, stirring all the tune. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the same of black pepper, six cloves of shallots peeled, three blades of mace, bruised, three spoonfuls of mush- room, and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, nr.d the finely pared rind of a lemon; boil gentle, fifteen minutes, and pour it into a basin till cold, take off the skum, and bottle for use. Casxerol, or Rice Edging, for a Currie or Fricasse. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash: drain and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches, smooth it over with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with the yolk of an egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat jn the middle.150 domestic cookery. PART VI. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. SAVOURY PIES. (Fruit Pies will be placed under the head PASTRY.) Observations on Savoury Pies. There are few articles of cookery wore generally, liked than relishing-pies, if properly made; and tbey may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and in that case, there should be nosuet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it ex- tremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie form : observe the following preparation: Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for instance) that has fat and lean ; wash it; and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder: rubbing them well in. Set. it. by the side of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it; put to it a piece'of butter, about tiie weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close ; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs: and if it is iu a dish, put some gravy to it before baking; but if it is only in crust, do not put the gravy till alter it is cold, and injelly, ashasbeeu describediupagesl31.andl32. Force- meat. may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls.151 SAVOURY Plt-S. Eel Pie. Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season w Uh pepper and salt, and place in the dish with some bits of butter, and a little water; and co\ er it with paste. " Cod Pie. Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night; next day wash it.; season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed; place in a dish and put some butter on ;t, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a crust, and when done, add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg^ and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. Mackerel will do well, but do not salt them till used. Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters. Sole Pic. Split some soles from the bone, and cut the lins close; season witli a mixture of salt, pepper, a little Dutmeg, and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred of ojsters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pouriu a cup- ful of thick cream. Shrimp Pic, excellent. Pick a quart <«f shrimps; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or throe anchovies; mix these with the152 DOMESTIC COOKERY. spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of'he dish, and overthe shrimps, with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. Lobster Pie. Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces and lay in a small dish, theh put in the meat of the claws, and that you have picked out the body ; pick olf the furry parts from the lattei, and take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar, likewise all the shells: set them on to stew with some w ater,two or three spoonfuls ofviuegor,pepper salt, and some pounded mace ; a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added wiitnthe goodness of the shells is obtained : give a l oil 'or two, and pour into the dish strained ; strew «nmc crums, and put a paste over all; bake slowly, but only till the paste is done. A remarkably fine Fish Pie. Boil two pounds of small eels ; having cut th ‘ Cas quite close, pick the flesh olf, and throw th® bones into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make forcemeat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and crums, and four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the force- meat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper: pout the gravy over and bake. Observe to take oft' the skin and lias, if cod or soles. Pilchard and Leek Pi . Clean and skin the white part of some large leek*,SAVOURY PIES. 153 scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor ; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. Beef-steak Pie. Prepare the steaks as iu page 42, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them tu a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Veal Pie. Take some of the middle, or scrag of a small neck; season it; and either put. to it, or not, •. few sl''-ps of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the 3alt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs; and if y ou choose add truflles, morels, mushrooms, sw. ctbread* cut into small bits, and cocks’-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking.—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. A rich Veal Pie. Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal, season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very ’ittle clove in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish ; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thhi slices of ham, and till up the dish with water ; cover ; and when it is taken out of the oven ; pour mat the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls154 DOMESTIC COOKERY. ef good veal-gravy, and some cream to fill up, but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, ike. if approved. Veal (or Chicken) and Parsley Pie. Cut some slices from the leg or neck of real; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald some parsley that is picked front the stems, and squeeze it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish; then put tJie meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. Veal-Olive Pie. Make the olives as directed in page 00 : putthem round and round the dish, making the middle highest. Fill t up almost with water, aud cuver it. Add gravy, cream, aud flour. Calf s-h cad Pie. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a few isinglass shavings , a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, aud a few peppef-corns, in three pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. 'J ake otl a bit of meat for the balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the broth till it is very good. Half-boil the head, and cut it into square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then some head, first fat, then lean, with bails and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish be full: but be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with pepper aud salt, and a scrape8AVOOr<? PIES. 155 or two of nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerably thick crust; bake it iu a slow oven, and when done pour it inio as much gravy as it can possibly hold, and donot cut ittill perfectly cold; iu doing which observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; and when done thus, thinner slices can be cut: the different colours and the clear jelly have abeautilul marbled appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which, with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, mo- rels, &c. has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side-dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calfs-foot, or a cow- heel, ifthe jelly i3 not likely to be stiff enough. The pickled tongues of former calves’-heads may be cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. Excellent Pork Pics to eat cold. Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose ; have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed; and if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin, season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separ tie. Put it in layers, quite close up to the top; lay on the lid; cut the edge smooth round, and pincK it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust; and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie ; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close.DOMESTIC OOOKERY. 150 Mutton Pie. Cut steaks from a neck or loin of mutton that hi 8 hung; beat them, and remove some of the fat. sea- son with salt, pepper, and a little onion ; put a lm e water at the bottom of tin dish, and a little paste on the edge; then cover with a moderately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in two to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinch- ing the edge. When they come out, pourinto each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton. Squab Pie. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton-chops; shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, and also some sugar. Lamb Pie. Make it of the loin, ueck, or breast; the breast of house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned . with pepper and salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles; and a small quantity of jelly-gravy be put in hot: but the pie should not be cut till, cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. Grass-lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with only pepper and salt; put tvro spoonfuls of water before baking, aad as much gravy when it comes from the oven. Note.—Meat-pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy od one side, and put it iu again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. Chicken Pie. Cut up two young fowls, season with white pep- per, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder, likewise a little Cayenne. Putthe hicken slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat157 SAVOCRY PIES. b ills, and hard eggs by turns, in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water ; but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a hit of the sera,;, with some shank-bones of mutton seasoned with herbs, onion,inace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, yon may add truffles, morels, mushrooms, 6cc. but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in a raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whims of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Rabbits, if young, and in flesh, do as .veil; their legs should be cut short, and the breast lames must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. Green-Goone Pie. Rone two young green-geese, of a good size: but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. V. ash them clean, and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, put one inside the other ; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust : if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. Duck Pie. Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl; wash them, and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice in the finest pow- der. Put the fowl within the dock, and in the forme1' a calfs-tougue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole close; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowls may be quite smooth. If approvedDOMESTIC COOKERY. 158 the space between the sides of the crust may be tilled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the second receipt given for making forcemeat in race 148. Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish, with a thick crust, ornamented. The large pies in Staffordshire arc made as above: but with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl; and either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat, in the middle. Giblet Pie. A fter very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton-steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream, Sliced potatoes added to it, eat extremely well. Pigeon Pie. Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in the latter put a bit of butter, and if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it.; between every two a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon: it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe, when hain is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie; and over them, in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie. it. is. Partridge Pic in a Dish. Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the legs15!) SAVOURY PlilS. at 'he knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of ham, at the bottom of the dish; put tlir partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Pin pulf paste on the ledge of the dish, and cover wit! the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. Ilarc Pie to eat cold. Season the hare after it is cut up; and bake it with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, cut off the lid, aud cover it with jelly-gravy, as in page 131. A French Pie. Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed ; wilh forcemeat-balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke-bottoms, and a few truffles. Vegetable Pie. Scald and blanch some broad beans; cut young carrots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, ouions, lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of them vou have; make the whole into a nice stew, with some good veal-gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, opr n the lid, and pour in the stew. Parsley Pie. k Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, into a dish; scald a col&nder-tul' of pickled parsley in milk; season it, and and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good t roth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut ofbutter, and a bit of flo ir.160 domestic cookery. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or sninach, may be added to the paisley, and scalded before put in. Turnip Pie. Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper, re- serving the ends of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and out on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls oi milk in. ' ou may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. Potatoe Pie. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices: season them : and also some mutton, beef, nor! and veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. An Herb Pie. Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems- half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cress, a few leaves of borage, and white-beet leaves; wash, and boil them a little ; then dram, and press out the water: cut them small: mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkle with some salt: mix a batter of flour, two ears well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, arid bake * ^ ierbS ’ coverwith a good crust’ Raised Crust for Meal Pics, or Fowls, 6jc. Boil water with a little fine lard, and an euual quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much ot either. While hot, mix this with cs rmui. flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make it by £<*>< kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. V ben quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. rPODDING®. 161 Those >vho have not a Rood hand at raising crust nay lo thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie then a h ng piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather farther out, and pinching both together: put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at die sides. Fill your pie, and put on the rover, and pinch it and "the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste innst be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but in the latter rase, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarterof an hour. With a feather, put egg over at first. PUDDINGS. Observations on modcing Pudding? and Pan- cakes. The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagreeebly ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely washed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. If bread, it shouid be tied loose; if batter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the puddmg i- pul. in; and it should be moved about for a min- ute, lest the ingredients should not mix. Baiter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In others, the eggs separately. The pans and basins must be always buttered. A pan of coid water should be ready, and the1G2 DOMESTIC COOIvEKY. pudding dipped in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good puddings may be made withobt eggs: but they must have as little milk as ■will mix, and must boil three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast will answer instead of eggs. Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoon- fuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will beequally good. This is a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the season when eggs are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled maltliquors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot before itis wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Note.—The yolks and whites beaten long and separately, make the article they are put into ranch lighter. Almond Pudding.' Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. Baled Almond Pudding. Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, yolks of six eggs, pee! of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste •■ound the dish.163 rUDDlNCS. Small A Imond Pudding. Ponnd eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; mix with four ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well, and bake in little cups buttered, Serve with puddiug-sauce. Sago Pudding. Boil a pint and a half of new milk, with four spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon- peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste ; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. Bread and Butter Pudding. Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish with currants between each layer; and sliced citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Put over an unboiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked ; and lade it over to s »ak the broad. A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but is not uecessary. Orange Pudding. Grate the rind of a Seville orange: put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded : beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you doit the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it A mother.— Mix of orange paste two full spoons, wit'u six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter164 DOMESTIC COOKERY. warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. Another.—Rather more than two table-spoon- fuls of the orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four ouuces of butter, melted, will make a good sized pudding, with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Bake twenty minutes. An excellent Lcrmrt Pudding. Beat the yolks of four eggs; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being nibbed with some lumps of it to take the essence; theu peel, and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with four or five ounces of but- ter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served turn the pudding out of the dish. A very fine Anibcr Pudding. Put a pound of butter into a saucepan with three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered ; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange aswilladd colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turuiug out; and w hen filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. Ilis as good cold as hot. Baled Apple Pudding. Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them tender, with the rind of a lemon, in so little w'ater, that when done, none may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crum of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste: beat all together, and lay it >n a dish with paste to turn out.PUDDINGS. 105 Oatmeal Pudding. Pour a quart of boiliug milk over a pint of the best fine oatmeal; let it soak all night; next day b -at two eggs, and mix a little salt; butter a hasiu that will just hold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oat- cake buttered. Dutch Pudding, or Soustvr. Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonfuls of yeast; add one pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, beaten ard sifted. This is a very good pudding hot; and equally so as a cake when cold. If for the latter, caraways inay be used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a quick oven. A Dutch Rico Pudding. Soak four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour; dram the latter from it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick ot cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, add four eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of cream ; aud put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon-peel. Put a light pud' paste in a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. Light or German Puddings or Puffs. Melt three ounces of butler in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold ; then mix two ounces of line flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, aud a little rose oc orange-100 DOMESTIC COOKERY. flower water, llakein little cups buttered, hall' an hour. They should be served the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or they will not be light. Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. Little Bread Puddings. Steep the erum of a penny-loaf, grated, in about a phit of warm milk; when soaked, beat six eggs ; whites and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a lea-cupful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea-cups buttered. If currants are chosen, a quar- ter of a pound is sufficient; if not, they are good without: or you may put orange or lemon-candy. Serve with pudding-sauce. Puddings in haste. Shred suet., and put, with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel and ginger Mix ; and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boil them ; but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding-sauce. Neio College Pudding. Grate the crum of a two-penny ioaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. Mix and make into the size and shape ot a goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter into a frying-pan; and when melted, and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove ; .U)7 PUDDINGS. turn (hem two or three times till of aline light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding-sauce. Boiled Bread Pudding. Grate white bread; pour boiling milk over it* and cover close. hen soaked an hour or two. lieat it fiue,and mix with it two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a basiu that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with melted butter poured over. It maj be eaten with salt or sugar. Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding instead of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. Another and richer—On half a pint of crams of bread pour half a pint of scalding milk; cover for an hour. Beat up four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread, with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ouuce of butter, tw o ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten with orange flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, ditto citron. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it. flour the cloth, and tie tight over, and boil one hour. Brown Bread Pudding. Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar and nutmeg; mix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonfuls of cream ; boil in a cloth or basia that exactly holds it, three or four hours. Nelson Pudding. Put into a Dutch oven six small ca’.es called Nelson-balls, or ricerakes made in small tea cups. tVhen quite hot, pour over them boiling melted168 DOM ESTIC COOK Eli Y, butter, white wine, and sugar ; and serve. Eve's Pudding. Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it with the same quantity of shred suet, the tame1 of apples, and also of currants ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape : boil three hours; aud serve with pudding-sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little ninnieg. Quaking Pudding. Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold, put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of' hour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth: boil it au hour; and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Melted buttei a little wine and sugar. Duke of Cumberland's pudding. Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quan- tity of currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beef suet tiueiy shred, the same of chopped ap- ples, ami also of lump sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg a pinch of salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; and citron, orange, and lemon, a large spoonful of each cut. thin. Mix thoroughly, and pn* into a basin; cover very close with floured cloths, and boil three hours. Serve it with pudding- i-auce, and the juiceofhalf alemon, boiled together. Transparent Pudding. Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew- pan. with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated Set it on the (ire, and keep stirring it till it thickens Then set it into a basin to cool; put a rich pulT paste round the edge of the dish; pour in yourPUDDINGS. 169 pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You u*ay add candied orange ami citron, if you like. Batter Pudding. ltub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk : simmer till it thick- ens ; stir in two ounces of butter; set it to cool: *ben add the yolks of throe eggs ; flour a cloth that has been wet, or butler a basin, and put the batter into it; tie it tight, and pluuge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little gingei, nutmeg, and lemon-peel, may be added. Serve with stveet sauce. Batter Pudding with Meat. Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding-dish; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a slow oven. Some like a loiu of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared of most of the fat. u Rice small Puddings. Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; and add grated lemon and a little (innamon Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quar- ters of an hour in a slowish oven. Sent the moment before t< be eaten, with sw'eet sauce in the dish or a boat. 13domestic cookery. 170 Plain Rice Pudding. Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some [ pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice 1 in a cloth, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quautity of water for an hour or two. When done eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt t ^ and butter. A rich Rice Pudding. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little l bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry; mix it> with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, and two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of beef suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, three quarters of u pound ot currants, 1 two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed put a paste round the edge, and fill the i dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; then mix fruit of any kied with it (currants, goose- berries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins,, or blackcurrants); with one egg into the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Baled Rice V adding. Swell rice as above; then add some more milk* an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemou-peel. Bake in a deep dish. Another, fok the family.—Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice washed awl pick'd;in ponni nos. fv.o ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A George Pudding. Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon- peel. Let it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible: add a glass of white wine, the yolks of live eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut thin ; make it pretty sweet. Line a mould or basin with a very good paste; beat the five whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients; fill the mould, aud bake it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with the bottom upward, with the following sauce : two glasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large as a walnut ; simmer without boiling, and pour to and from the saucepan, till of a proper thickness ; and put in the dish. An excellent plain Potatoe Pudding. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks aud whites of two eggs, a quar- of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat, all to froth j sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweetmeats aud almouds, and another egg- Potatoe Pudding icith Meat. Boil them till fit to mash ; rub through a colan- der, and make into a thick batter withmilk ;ind two eggs, l ay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then stole batter; and over the Inst layer pour the renia t'der of the bailer. Bake a line brown.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 172 Steak or Kidney Pudding. If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and boil a considerable time. Beefsteak Pudding. Prepare some fine steaks as in page 42 ; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve shred onion,. add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, I and put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the basin, with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close ; and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Baked Beef-steak Pudding. Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander: lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; theu put in the steaks prepared as above, and very well seasoned : pour the remainder of tlie batter over them, and bake it. Mutton Pudding. Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them; then putting the rest of the steaks, and batter, bake it. Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, j but requires more egg, and is not so good. Another.—Cut slices off a leg that has been underdone, and put them into a basin lined with a fine suet crust. Season with pepper, salt, and finely shred onion or shallot.173 PtlUDlXGS. Su«t pudding. Sored a pounu of suet: mix with a pound and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats well uext day, cut iu slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. Veal-suet pudding. Cut the crum of a three-penny loaf into slices 1 boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk, and pour over it. When soaked, pour out a little of the milk; and mix with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish ; with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, ondbake ; or youmay boil it in a basin, if you prefer it. Hunter’s pudding. Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants,, ditto raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind ofhal a lemon shred as tine as possible, six Jamaica pep- pers in fine powder, four eggs, a glass ot brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence ; boil it. in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-watcr for change of flavour. This puddiug will keep after it is boiled, six months if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a .-/met of cap-paper to preserve it fioLi dust, being first cold. When to be used, it n/u6t boil a fu'1 hour. Phim pudding. The same proportion of flour and suet, and halfDOMESTIC COOKERY. 17 i the quantify of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, and one egg, and milk, will make an excellent, pudding, if long boiled. Custard pudding. Mix by degress a pint of good milk with a large spoonful of flour, the yoik of live eggs, some orange- flower water, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butler a basin that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put iu boiling water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes to prevent the egg going to one 6ide. Half an hour will boil it. Put currant jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. Macaroni pudding, Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe-sort, in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender: put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, :a a macaroni pudding, for change, is a great im- provement; in which ease omit the almond water, or ratafia, which you would otherwise flavour it wita Millet pudding. Wash three spoonfuls <>f the seed ; put into the dich, with a crust round Ihe edges ; pour ov er it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of giuger and nutmeg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs, beaten, and a > poonful of shred suet. Carrot pudding. Boil a large carrot tender; thc-u bruise it iu a175 PUDDINGS. marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit- powder, or three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream, either raw or scalded, a little ratatia, a large spoonful of orange or rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Rake it in a shallow dish lined with paste; and turn it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted over. An excellent Apricot Padding. Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are so‘t; mean time pour on the grated crams of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half-cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, aud a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar, v\ ith some or all of the kernels; mix then the fruit and ther ingredients together; pat a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half an hour. Baked Gooseberry Vadding. Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearfh, or in a saucepan of water, till they will pulp. Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strained, one ounce und a half ofbotter: sweeten it well, and put a crust round the dish. A few crams of roll should he mixed with the above t<> give a little consistence, or four ounces of Naples biscuits. A Green-bean pudding. Roil and blauch old beans, beat them in a mor- tar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach-juice will give a finer colour, but it is as good without. Boil it In a basin that will just hold it, an hour ; andDOMESTIC COOKEBY. 170 pour parsley and butter over. Serve b aeon to eat with it. Shelford pudding. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-shape six hours. Brandy Pudding. Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then with thin slices of Fr< ich roll, next to which put ratafias, or macaroons ; then the fruit, rolls and cakes, in succession, until the mould be f ill- sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites ; put to a pint of milk or cream, lighly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and tiie rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part; then flout a cloth, lie it tight over, aud boil one hour ■ keep the mould the right side up. Serve with puddiDg-sauce. Buttermilk pudding. Warm three quarts of new milk ; turn it with a quart of buttermilk ; drain the cord through a sieve; when dry, pound it in a marble mortar, with near half a pound ot sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crum of a roll grated, a nutmeg grated, six hitter almonds, four ounces of warm butter, a ten-cupful of good cream, the yolksof fiveand whites of three eg)*.>, a glass of sweet w ine, aud ditto of brandy. When well incorporated, bake in small cups m bowls well buttered; if the bottom be noi brow n use a salamander; bn* sene as quick as possible, and with pudding-sauce. Curd puddings or puffs. ' urn two quarts of milk to curd, press the w heyFUDDiaGS. Jj 7 Worn it, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the crum of a penny loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoonfuls of white wine. Butter little cups, or small pattypans, and filllhem three parts. Orange-flower water is an improvement. Bake them with care. Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Boiled Curd Pudding. R ub the curd of two gallons of milk well drained through asieve. Mix it with six eggs, alittlecream tw o spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nut- meg, flour aud crums of bread each three spoonfuls, currants and raisins half a pound ot each. Boil an 1 our in a thick wetl-Ooured cloth. Pippin Pudding. Coddle six pippins in vine-leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the skins. When soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander; add two spoonfuls of orange - flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisi i wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puff' paste at the bottom an! r its of the dish ; shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it into the dish; likewise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. Yorkshire Vudding. Mix five spoonfuls of flour, with a quart of milk ami three eggs well beaten. Batter the 1 an. When brown by baking under the meat, (urn the other side upwards, and brown that, ft should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table.DOMESTIC COOKERY. ITS Set it over a chafing dish at first, and stir it suiue- minutes. A quick-made pudding. Flour ai d suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quarter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the co\erofthe pot on, or it will require longer. Russian seed, or ground Rice pudding. T.loil a large spoonful heaped, or either, in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. W hen cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Make with a crust round the dish. A Welsh pudding. Let half a pound of butter melt gently, beat with itthe yolks of tight and whites of four eggs, mix in six ounces of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and uicely bake it Oxford Dumplings. Of grated bread two ounces, currants and shred suet four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal of grated lemon peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix with two eggs, and a little milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour instead of bread, but half the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce. Suet Dumplings. Make as pudding (page Vi3;) and drop iuto boiling water, or into the boiling of beef: or you may boil them in a cloth.PUDDINGS. r,g Apple, Currant, or Damson Dumplings, or Puddings. .Make as above, and line a basin with the paste tolerably thin : fill w ith the fruii, and cover it; tie a cloth over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. Yeast or Suffolk Dumplings. Mahea'ery light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough into baits, the size of a middling apple ; throw them in, and boil twenty minutes. If you doubt when done enough, stick a clean fork iuto one, and if it come out clear, it is done. The way to eat them is, tear them apart with on the top with two forks, for they become heavy by th -ir own steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. A Charlotte. Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, bat first rub it thick with butter. Put apples in thin slices into the dish, in layers, till full, strew- ing sugar between, and bits of butter. In the mean time, soak as many thin '.dices of bread as will cover tlie whole, in warm milk, over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the apples. Cake slowly three hours. To a middling sized dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. Common Pancakes. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Sait, or nutmeg and ginger, may be added.180 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Sugar and lemou should be served tc eat with them. Or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter w ith dour, and small beer, ginger, fee.: or clean suow, with flour, and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. Fine pancakes, fried without Butter or Lard.* Beat six fresh eggs extremely well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake-batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. Pancakes of Rice. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly, in a small quantity of water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt, aud nutmeg ; stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, aud add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. Irish pancakes. Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, sirsio them into a pint, of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste ; set three ounces of fresh butter on the (ire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it: then mix smooth almost, half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the lirst w ith a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several on one another. New-England pancakes. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of line flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very1*1 J1D1NCS. 191 little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. Fritters. Make them of any of the batters directed for pan-cakes, by droppiug a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer sort, and put pared ap- ples sliced aud cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currents or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change.—Fritters for company should be served on a folded napkin in the di.-h. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. Spanish Fritters. Cut the crum of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. Potatoe Fritters. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them tine ; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nut- meg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light.. Put a good quantity of line lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; and serve as a sauce, aglassof white wine, the juice of a lemon, one desert-spoonful of peach-leaf or almond-water, and some white sugar, warmed together: not to be served in the dish. Another way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Sen e with white sugar,Ie2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. sifted over them. Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower-water, should be added to the batter. Bookings. Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of.warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast ; let it rise before the fire about an hour ; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same. pastry. Rich Puff Paste. Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary ; mix a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make into a stiff paste, liolt it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin : do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter may be added at tw'ice ; and to those who are not accus- tomed to make paste, it tnay be better to d o so. A quicker oven than for short crust. A less rich Paste. Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten— of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, and fold it three or four times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. Crust for Venison Pasty. To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two1S3 PASTRY. pounds and a half of butter, and four oggs ; mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consistence. Put a paste round the >Dside, but not to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continu- ance in the oven. Rich Paste for Sweets. Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water : strain from it all the moisture as well as you can; beat it in a mortar w ith half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent paste for tarts, Lc. Rice Paste for relishing things. Clean and put some rice, with au onion, and a little water and milk, or milk only, into a sauce- pan, and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and cover it with the rice : by the ad- dition of an egg, the rice will adhere better. Rabbjts fricasseed, aud covered tiins, are v<*'y good. Potatoe Paste. Pound boiled potatoes very tine, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, or you may mix with it au egg . then, before it gets cold, (lour the board pretty well, to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. T it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it will be apt to crack. Raised Crust for Custards or Fruit. l^it four ounces of butter into a saucepan with water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose: knead aud beat it till smooth; $184 DOMESTIC COOKERY. cover it, as at the top of page 161. Raise it; and if for custard, put a paper within to keep out the sides till half-done, then fill with a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-water, lemon- peel, or nutmeg. By cold is meant that the egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should be warmed i by itself—not to spoil the crust. The above butter will make a great deal at raised crust, which must not he rich, or it will be ■ difficult to prevent the sides from failing. Excellent short Crust, Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, quite dry; then mix it with a pound of flour well dried, rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen—into some cream put yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste; roll it thin, and bake it in a moder- ate oven. Another.—Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an ounce of sugar pounded and sifted ; then crum- ble three ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and, with a gill of b' .ling cream, work it up to a line paste. Another, not sweet, but rich.—Rub six ounces of butter in eight ounces of fine flour ; mix it into a stiffish paste, with as little water as pos- sible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A very fine Crust for Orange Cheesecakes, or Sweetmeats, when to be iwrticularly nice. Dry a pound of the finest floui, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of buttei with your hand till it come; to froth ; put dm flour into it by degrees, and work into it, wellPASTRY. 133 beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against the come out. have ready some re- fined sugar beat up w ith the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be washed. Observations on Pastry. An adept in pastry never leaves any part, of it adhering to the board or dish, used in making. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter should he put into cold water to make it as firm as possible': and if made early in the morning, and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust, than others. Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. Romoks on using Preserved Fruit in Pastry. Preserved fruits should not be baked long; those that have been done with their fall proportion of sugar require no baking: the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish, or tart-pans, aud the covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. Apple Pie. Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the out- side ; which, with the cores, boil with a litth water till it tastes well: strain, and put a little sugar, 14DOMESTIC COOKER Y. 181) and a bit of bruised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge ; when one layer is ir sprinkle half the sugar, and shred lemon-peel, and squeeze some juice, or a glass of cider. If the ap- ples have lost their spirit, put iu the rest of the apples, sugar, and Lhe liquor that you have boiled. Cover with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot; or put quince-marmalade, or- ange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. Hot Apple pie.—Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, and put a bit of butter iu when cut open. Cherry Pie. Should have a mixture of other fruit; currants or raspberries, or both. Current Pie. M ith or without raspberries. Mince Pie. Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh >'lb., 41b. of suetpickcd and chopped,then add Gib. of currents nicely cleaued and perfectly diy, 31b. of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lem- ons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder; press the whole into a deep pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool j>lace. Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large family. Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put some of each in (he pies when made. Mince Pies without Meat. Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and137 PASTRY. minced: of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds, likewise minced : to these add of mace and cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest powder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and the juice of .two lem- ons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well, and put into a deep pan. Have ready washed and dried four pounds of currants, and add as you make the pies, with can- died fruit. Lemon Mince Pies. Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till ten- der enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the lemon, and candied fruit, as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the pattypans as usual. Egg Mince Pies. Boil six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suit : then put currants washed aud picked, one pound, or more it the eggs were large ; the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt: orange, lemon, and itron, candied. Make a light paste for them. Currant and Raspberry. For a tart, line the dish, put. sugar and fruit, lay bars across, and bake. Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth; then inix it with as much water as will make three quar- ters of a pound of line flour into a very stifi paste$188 DOMESTIC COOKERY. roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pouud of butter upon it in little bits; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Boll it out again, and put the same proportion of butter; and so proceed till all be worked up. Teeing for Tarts. Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over as you put them into the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Pippin Tarts. Pare thin two Seville or China oranges, boil the peel tender and shred it fine; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible; when half-done, add half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice,; boil it pretty thick. When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or pattypans lined with paste, to turn out, end be eaten cold. Prune Tart. Oive prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them: put the kernels into a little cranberry juit e, with the prunes and sugar; simmer; and v/hen cold, make a tart of the sweetmeat. Orange Tart. Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges ten- der, weigh them, and double of sugar : beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh but ter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it w ith a light puli-crust, and lav tire paste of orange in it. You may ice itPASTRY. 1&9 Codlin Tart. Scald the fruit as will be directed under that ar- ticle ; when ready, take oft' the thin skin, and lay them whole m a dish, put a little of the water that the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them over w ith lump sugar or fine Lisbon , when cold, put a paste round the edges and over You may wet it with white of egg, and strew sugar over, v\ Inch looks well: or cut the lid in quarters, without touching the paste on the edge of the dish; and either put the broad end down- wards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid altogether. Pour a good custard over it when cold ; sift sugar over. Or line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars. Rhvbarb Tart. Cnt the stalks in lengths of four or five inches and takeoff the thin skin. Ifyou have a hot hearth lay them in a dish, and put over a thin synip of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and le* it simmer very slowly an hour—or do them in a block-tin sauce-pan. When cold, make into a tart, as codJin. When tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient. Raspberry Tart with Cream Roll out some thin puff-paste, and lay it in a pattypan of what size you choose; put in raspber- ries; strew over them tine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mixture warm : half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar: and when this is added to the tarf, return it to the oven for five or six minutes.ISO DOMESTIC COOKERY. Orange Tart. Line a tart-pan with thin puff-paste : put into ii orange marmalade that is made with apple jelly : lay. bars of paste, ora croquant cover over, and bake in a moderate oven. Fried Patties. Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mix with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very small bit of lemon-peel—add the liquor of the oysters ; warm all in a tosser, but do not boil; let it go cold ; have ready a good puff-paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; put some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a flue brown. This is a very good thiDg; and baked is a fash- ionable. dish. Wash all patties over w ith egg before baking. Oyster Patties. Put a line puff-crust into small pattypans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser with a grate of nutmeg, the the least white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon- peel, cut. so smai that you can scarcely set- it, a little cream, andla little oyster-liquor. Simmer a few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep them hollow while baking. Oyster, Patties, or small Pie. A, you open the oyster;. separate them from the .'iquor, which strain; parboil them after taking off191 PASTRY. the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and cutting them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, season very lightly with salt, pepper, and mace. Then put half a tea-cup of liquor, and the same of gravy. Bake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put a tea-cup of cream, a little more oyster-liquor, and a cup of white gravy, all warmed but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters should be cut in small dice, gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste wheu ready for table. Lobster Patties. Make with i!:e same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. Podomes, nr Beef Patties. Shred under-done dressed beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shallot or onion. Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut in shape like an apple puff, till it with mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity of but- ter, egg, and milk. Veal Patties. Mince some veal that is not quite done, with a little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat; and if you have any ham, scrape a little, arid add to it. Do not warm it till the pat- ties are baked. Turkey Patties. Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, till th< potties.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 192 Stoeei Patties. Chop the meat of a boiled calfs foot, of which you use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange aud lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice : mix with them half a nutmeg gra- ted, the yolk of an egg. a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small pattypans. Patties resembling Mince Pies. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. Apple Puffs. Paie the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred tine, taking as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in a thin paste, m a quick oven ; a quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince marmalade is a great improvement. Cin- namon pounded, or orange-flower water, in change. Lemon Puffs. Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double refined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it with the sugar-; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a great, while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour; make it up m any shape you please, and bake it on paper put on tin-plates, in a moderate oven. Do not re- move the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it come off w ith ease. Cheese Puffs. Strain cheese-curd from the whey , and beat halfPASTRY. 193 a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful ami a half of Hour, three eggs, 'nut only one white, spoonful of orange- flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of tin's paste, in very small round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of auhour will bake them. Serve with pudding-sauce. Fxcellmt light Puffs. Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf sugar, and one egg; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity of lard in a fry- ing-pan, and when quite hot, drop a desert-spoon- ful of batter at a time ; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately with sweet sauce. To prepare Venison for Pasty. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn beef-gravy, but not a strong one lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, a sauce-pan of water over the fire, simmer three or four hours—then leave it in a cold olace till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento, as necessary. Rut some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it -will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. Venison pasty. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be be beaten and seasoned, and the want ofDOMESTIC COGKERT. 191 fat supplied by that of a fine well-hung loin of mut- ton, steeped twenty-four honrs in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advan- tage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days ; and when to be used, wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much: but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserv- ed. Either iu shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person, without break- ing up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then the meat nicely packed, that it maybe suffici- ently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges, The venison bones should be boiled with some line old mutton; of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish ; then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but do not put one under the meat. Keep the re- mainder of the gravy till the pasty conies from the oven ; put it into the middle by a funuel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be sea- soned with pepper and salt. To male a pasty o f Beef or Mutton to cat as well as Venison. Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef,, or a fat loin of mutton, after banging .several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-piu; then rub ten pounds ot meal with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie. five days and nights; wash and wipe thePASTRY. 195 meat very dry, and season it very high with pep- per, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or near of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges and cover with a thick one, or it will be over-done before the meat be soaked; it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. Note.—Sugar gives a greater shortness and better flavour to meats than salt, too great a quan- tity of which hardens—and it is quite as great a preservative. Potatoe pasty. Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible; mi* them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of but- ter. Make a pa9te ; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the potatoe ; fold over one haif,. pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. Cheap and excellent Custards. Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon peci, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a large spoonful of rice-flour iuto a cup of cold milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that to the boiling ; stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to hoi! up ; and then pour it into a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach-water, two tea. spoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard, or any thing likely o burn, will, by shaking them in a saucepan, pre- vent it from catching.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 106 Rich Custard. Boil a piut of milk with leinou-pcel and cinna- mon ; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of live eggs well beaten; when the milk tastes of the sea- soning, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the cus- tard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. Baked Custard. Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk, with mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, mix the yolks of three eggs ; sweeten, and make your cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. Lemon Custard. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk: then put to them a pint of boiling water* the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweet- ened to your taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough : then add a large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy ; give the whole one scald, and put in cups to be eaten cold. Almond Custard. Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with i spoouful of water; beatapintof cream with two poonfuls of rose-water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it prett;- sweet; then add the almonds; stir it* all over a slow tire till it is of a proper thickness, but do not boil. Pour iuto cups. Cheesecakes. ^ .Strain the w hey from the curd of two quarts11)7 PASTRY. milk; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ouuce of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated tiiscuit, four ounces of currents, some nutmeg and cinnamon in fine powder, and beat all the above with three eggs, and half a pint of cream, till quite light: then fill the patty-pans three parts full. A plainer sort. Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain the whey : when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half of thin cream, or srood milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and three ounces of currants. Cheesecakes, another way. Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so tine that >t becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy. Put a light thiu puff-paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. Lemon Cheesecakes. 31 ix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar and tour ounces of butter, and gently melt it, then add the yolks of two and tiie white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, three spoonfuls of brandy; mix well, and put in paste made as follows; eight ounces of flour six ounces of butter; two-thirds of which mix with the flour first; then wet it with six spoonfuls of water, and roll the remainder in.198 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Another way.—Boil two large lemons,or three small ones, and after squeezing, pound them well together in a mortar, with four ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. Fill the pattypans half full. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way, only veu must boil the peel in two or three waters to take out the bitterness ; or make them of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. Orange Cheesecakes. When you have blanched half a pound of al- monds, beat them ver> line, with orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has been melted care- fully without oiling, and which must be nearly coid before you use it; then beat the yolks of teD and whites of four eggs ; pouud two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, in a mortar, till as teuder as marmalade, without any Jumps ; and beat the whole together, and put into pattypans. Potatoe Cheesecakes. Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon-peel; beat the latter in a marble mortar, with four ounces of sugar; then add the potatoes beaten, and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed let it stand to grow cold. Put crust in pattypans, and rather more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an hour; sifting some double-refined sugar on them when going to the oven. This quantity will make a dozen. Almond Cheesecakes. Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; then addVEGETABLES. 199 four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all a.' quick is possible ; put into very small patty- pans, and bake in a pretty warm oven under twen- ty minutes. Another way,—Blanch aud pound four ounces of almonds,-nvith a little orange-flower or rose-wa- ter ; then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs, wellbeaten, five ounces of butter warm- ed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice; sweeten with fine Lisbon Sugar. When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans. Another way.—Press tk« whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones ; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon ; put to it six yolks and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds pounded, with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a iemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a pufl-paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. PART VII. VEGETAB LES. Observations on dressing Vegetables. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and draiu them the moment they are done enough. If over-boiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat; which is wrong, except carrots with boil- iag beef.200 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To toil Vegetables green. Be sure the water boils when you put them in- Make them boil very fast. Do not cover, but wash them ; and if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are done wheu they bee- in to sink. Then take them out immediately, or the colour wil‘. change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate,, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be greeu. To BOIL THEM GREEN IN HARD WATER, put a. tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are put in. To keep green Peas. Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three warms only, and pour them into a colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth todry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide mouthed bottles; leaviug only- room to pour clarified mutton-suet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down ; and keep it in a cellar or in the earth, as will be di- rected for gooseberries under the head of keeping for Winter.—When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoouful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another way, as practised in the Emperor of Russia’s kitchen.—Shell,scald, and dry them as above; put them on tins or earthen dishes in a cool oven once or twice to harden. Keep them iu paper bags hung up iu the kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie au hour in water; then &et them on with cold water aid a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them.201 vegetables. Boiled Peas Should not be over-lone, nor in much water, Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir apiece of butter in with them. To stew green Peas. I’tn a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more wat: r than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them , or a bit of flour aud butter. Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but then there will be less of the flavour of the peas, Chop a bit of mint, and stew it in them. To stew old Peas. Steep them in water all night, if not line boil- ers ; otherwise only half an hour; put them into wi ter enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender; if it is not salt meat, add salt aud a lt.ttlo pepper. Serve them round the meat. To dress Artichokes. Trim a few of the outside leaves ofT, and cut the stalk ven. If young, half an hour will bnP them. They are better for being gathered two or three days find. Serve them with melted butter in as many snail cups as there are artichokes, to h Ip wit . each. Artichoke Bottoms. If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in w'-tk gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or the may be boiled in milk, and served 15202 DOMESTIC COOKtKY. with cream sauce ; or added to ragouts, Freach pies &c. Jerusalem Artichokes Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or serred with white fricassee-sauce. To stew Cumnibcrs. Slice them thick ; or halve and divide them into two lengths; strew some salt anti pepper, and slice- ed onions: add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly ; and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour ; or if there w as butter in, only a little flour, unless it wants richness. Another way.—Slice the onions, and cut the cucumbers large ; flour them, and fry them in some butler; then pour on some good broth or gravy, and stew them till done enough. Skim off the fat. To stew Onions. Peel six large ouions; fry gently of a fine brown, out do not blacken them ; then put the n into a small stew p.m, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured at first. Roast Onions. Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter ; or with roast potatoes ; or with beet-roots. To stew Celery. Wash six heads, and strip off heir outer leaves; either halve, or leave them whole, according to their size ; cut into lengths p{ four inches. PutVEGETAbtES. 20S thorn into a stew-pan w\h a cup of broth, or weak, white grayy ; stew till tender; then add two .spoon- fuls of creain. and a little flour and butter seasoned pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all To boil Cauliflowers. Choose those that are close and white. Cut off the green leaves, and look carefully that there are no caterpillars about, the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water: then boil them in milk and water; and take care to skim the saucepan, that not the teas; foulness may fall on the flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. CauliJlouHtr in white Sauce. Half-boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth a’ b.t of mace, a little salt, and a dust of whi e pep- per ; simmer half an hour; then put a little cream, butter, and flour; shake, and simmer a few min- utes, and serve. To dress Cauliflowers und Parmesan. Roil a cauliflower ; drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will stand uprightabout two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan, with a little white sauce; let it stew till done' enough, which will be but a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. To dress Broccoli. Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast.204 DOMESTIC COOKERY". Spinach Requires great care in washing and picking if. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, ard cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter; it must come to table pretty dry: and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in lhe form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improve- ment. To dress Beans, Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. Fricasseed Windsor Beans. When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready-hot: just, heat them through in it, and serve. If any are of a fine green, do not use them for this dish. French Beans. String, and cut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water; and when 'he saucepan boils, put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve them immedietely, to preserve the green colour. Or when half done, drain the water off, and put them into tw'o spoonfuls of broth strained; and add a little cream, butter, aud flour, to finish doing them. To stew red Cabbage. Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage; wash aud put it into a saucepan with pep}' r, salt, no205 VEGETABLES. water but what hangs about it, and a piece of but- ter. Stew till quite tender ; and w hen going to serve, add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. • Another way.—Shred the cabbage ; wash it; and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin ; and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter, at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted : then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Mushrooms. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are wliite. As the size increases, the under part gradually i 0,'ens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine sal- mon-colour ; which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those thatdomestic cookery 20G have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. To stew Mushrooms. The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel: cut out the fur, and take off the skin, from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pep- per-corns : simmer slowly till done; then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. To state Sorrel for Fricandeau and roast Meat. Wash the sorrel: and put it into a silver vessel or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can : and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. French Salad. Chop three anchovies, a shallot, and some pars- ley, small. put them iuto a bowl with two table- spoonfuls of viuegar, one of oil, a little .mustard, and ' alt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a time, not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Gar- nish with parsley, and a few slices of the fat. Lobster Salad. Hake a salad ; and put some of the red part of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast207 V GUTAUI.es. to the white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of vinegar. Serve in a dish, not a bowl. To boil Potatoes. Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold Water ; let them half-boil; theu throw some salt in, and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour off the water; and put a clean cloth over them, and then the saucepan cover, and set them by the tire to steam till ready. Many persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same; but be careful they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Be- fore dressing, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then wash. To broil Potatoes. Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow fire; and when thoroughly done, send them up with their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish families. To roast Potatoes. Half-boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beautiful brown. To fry Potatoes. Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice, and fry them, either in butter or thin batter. To mash Potatoes. Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste; then to two pounds of them, add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either208 DOMESTIC COOKERY. serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a sala- mander : or in scallops. Carrots. Require a good deal of boiling: when young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled: w hen old, boil them with the salt meat, aud scrape them first. To stew Carrots. Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice then iuto a stew -pan. Put to them haif a tea-cupl'ul of any weak broth, some pepper and salt, and hali a cup- ful of cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, hut not broken. Before serving, rub a very little Hour, with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may he added ten miuutes before served. To mash Parsneps. Boil them tender; scrape, then mash them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. Fricassee of Parsneps. Boil in milk till they are soft. Then cut them lengthwise into bits two or three inches long; and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter aud some flour, pepper, aud salt. To dress Chardoons. Cut them into pieces of siv inches long, aud put on a string; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or tie them into bundles ; and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. Or boil, aud then heal them "up in fricasse-sauca.VEGETABLES. 209 Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. Or stew them ; boil as directed in the last pane : tons them up with a brown or white gravy; add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and (lour. Beet-roots. Make a very pleasant addition to winter salad; of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead Ol being anly used to ornament it. This root is cooling, and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quantity of onion; or stewed with whole onions, I arge or small, as follows: Hoil the beet tender with the skin on ; slice it into a stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar: simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour : then put it. into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender; lake off tlie skiu just before serving, and mind they are quite hot, and clear. Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins till they look clear ; and serve the beet-root Stewed round them. If beet-root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts with its colour, and looks ill. Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire. Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach leaves* two large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all'on to stew with some salt and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calves’ liver, ‘small rashers of bacon, and210 DOMESTIC COOKERY. eggs fried ; the latter on the herbs, the other in & separate dish. See Cale Must be boiled very w hite, and served on toast like asparagus. Laver. This is a plant that grows on the rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots pre- pared for eating. Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is a great sweetener of the blood. It is seldomliked at first, but people become extremely fond ofit by habit. To preserve several Vegetables to eat in the Winter, For French beans, pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep; then sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone ou it. A pickle w ill rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. Carrots, Parsneps. and Bef.t-roots, should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter use ; and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully kept from frost. Store-onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room.VEGETABLES. 211 Parsley should be cut close to the stalks; arul dnei! in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven: it preserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Artichoke-bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper bass; and Truffles, Morels, Lemon- peel, &c. in a dry place ticketed. Small close Cab bag t:s, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very tine, after many weeks’ keeping. PICKLES. Rn/es to be observed with Pickles. Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden spo.ui, with holes, tied to each jar: all metal being improper. They should be well kept from the air; the large jars be seldom opened ; and small ones, for the different pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely covered. Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans. When necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar, on the hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. Lemon Pickle. Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlick, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinued saucepan; or, which is be ter, do it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water , or set the jar on the hearth till done. Set the ja’- by, and stir it daily for six wpeks ; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles.DOMESTIC COOKEHY. 212 Indian Pickle. Lav a pound of white ginger in water one night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till rue other ingredients shall be ready. Feel, slice, and salt a pound of garlick three days, then put it in the euu 10 dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : Quarter small wbite cabbages, salt three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches; take off the green from radishes; cut celery in three-inch lengths; ditto young French beans whole, likewise th c shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter ; over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, butuo salt must be used. Pul the spice, garlick, a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed, and as much vinegar as you thiuk enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and oue ounce of turmeric, to be readv against the vegetable shall be dried, tl lieu they are ready, observe the tollowing directions: Put some of them into a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegar. Next day takeOHt those vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vin- egar, pour it. over some more of the vegetables; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing: thee, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mustard, mixing by degrees withPICKLES. 21 S a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but set to tool before it was pot to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the pre- parative vinegar; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boiling-hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not sv\ elled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouriDg it over them hot, will pulp them. English Bamboo. Cut the large young shoots of elder, which pnt out in the middle of May (the middle stalks are most tender';; peel off the outward peel, or skin, and lay them in salt and water very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a cloth. Have ■?:» readiness a pickle thus made and boiled: to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder-shoots, in a stone jar ; stop close, and set by the fire two hours, turning the jar often to keep it scalding hot. If not green when cold, strain off the liquor, and pour boilimr hot again ; keep it hot as before.—Or, if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it; In which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard-seed on them; and keep them till your jar of pickles shall he ready to receive them. The cluster of elder-flowers before it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat with boiled mutton. It is only done by pouring vinegar over. Melon Mangoes. There is a particular sort for this pnrpose. w ich the gardene/s know. Cut a square small pieceDOMESTIC COOKERY. 214 out ot one side,- antHhnragirtbat take out- the "Breds, and mix with them mustard-seed and shred gar lick; stuff the lemon as full as the space will allow, and re;dace the square piece. Bind it up with a small new packthread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar to allow for wasting, with peppers, salt, ginger, aud pour hoiling-hot over the mangoes four successive days ; the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse-radish, into the vinegar jast as it boils up. Stop close. Ob serve that there is plenty of vinegar. Ail pickles are spoiled if not well covered. Man- goes should be done soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it will be ready. Pickled Lemons. They should be small, and with thick rinds: rub them wiih a piece of flannel; then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp: till the slits with salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts ; turn them thrice a day in their own liquor, until tender: make enough pickle to cover them, of rape-vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pep- per, and ginger ; boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and Iwo doves of garlick to six lemons. When the lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or other sauces. 0 Olives. Are of three kinds, I '.alian, Spanish, and French, of different sizes and flavour: each sort should be firm, though some are most fleshy. Preserve them from the air.PICKI.ES. 215 Pickled Onions. In the month of September, choose the small white round onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a very nice t in ste w pan of hoi 1 ing water, t hrow in as many onions as will cover the top; as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth; cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to he cold, then put them in ajar, or glass wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot, butnot boiling. M hen cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. I To pickle Cucumbers a nd On ions sliced. Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them ,* next day drain them for five or six hours ; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be thick. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again 'ustantly ; and so on till green: the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep it in small stone jars. To pickle young Cucumbers. Choose nice younggerkins, spread them ondishes* salt them and let them lie a week—drain them, and putting them in ajar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the lire, covered with plenty of vine- leaves; if they do not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot heartli, and when it boils, pour it over them again, covering w ith fresh leaves : and thus do till they are of as good a colour as you wish :—but as it is now known that the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell-metal vessels, which.210 DOMESTIC COOKERY. when vinegar if put into them, become highly poi- sonous, few people like to eat them. To pickle VTahmts. When they will bear a phi to go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough! to bear an egg on them, being quite cold first. It' must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days; then change the brine, letthem stand six more; then drain them, and pour over them ina jar a pickle of the best white-wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, giuger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horse-radish; al) boiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts, prt six spoonfuls of mustard-seed, and two or three beads of garlick or shallot, but the latter is least strong. Thus done, they will be good for several years, if close covered. The air will soften them. TK-y will not be fit to eat for six months. The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the walnuts are used. Another way,—Put them into a jar, cover them with the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months ; then pour olftlie pickle, and boil as much' fresh vinegar as will cover Ihe walnuts, adding to very three quarts of vinegar one quarter-pound of best Durham mustard, a stick of horse-radish sliced one half ounce of black pepper, one half-ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half ounce of all - spice, and a good handful of salt, pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close; they will be fit for use iu three or four months. You may add two ounces of garlick, or shallot, but not boiled in the viuegar. Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, you may make excellent ketchup.217 TICKLES. An Me*'lent way to pi ell a Mushrooms, to prt- serco the favour Button!? must be rubbcil with a bit of flannel and salt; and from the larger take out the red inside ; for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some inace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle tire till all of it be dri d into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. To pickle red Cabbage. Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layej with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough (o cover, and put a few slices ofred beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spice w ill boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches; and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. Mushroom Ketchup. Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over .- strain, and boil the liquorwith Jamaica and black peppers, mare, ginger, a cloveortwo, and somemustard-sced. When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork ; in three months boil it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. Mushroom Ketchup, another wag. Take a stew-pan fi ll of live large-flap mushrooms that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and firings' 16218 domestic cookery. of those you have pickled ; throwah mdful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain ; and put to it four ounces of shallots, two cloves of gar lick, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay leaves— boil and slum very well. When cold, cork close. In two months boil it up agak with a little fresh spice, and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year; which mushroom-ketchup rarely does, if not boiled! u -econd time. Walnut Ketchup of the finest sort. Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts w hen they are tender, and skim it well: then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones anil liquor, ditto of shallots, one ounce of cloves, aittc of mace, ditto of pepper, and one clove of garlick. Let all simmer till the shallots sink: then put tin liquor into a pan till cold; bottle, and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over It will keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to express the juice at home for il is rarely unadulterated, if bought. Some people make liquor of the outside she! when the nut is ripe : but neither the f avour no: colour is then so fine. Cockle Ketchup. Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor add a little water when the liquor settles, if yoi have not enough; strain through a cloth, then sea son with every savoury spice; and if for browi sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick—if fo white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemor juice, and peel, mace, nutmeg, and white pepper If for brown, barn a bit of sugar for colour:' g.219 SWEET DISHES. It IS hotter to have cockles enough than to add water; and they are cheap. To keep Capers. Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and become cold—and tie them close, to keep out th- air, which makes them soft. PART VIII. SWEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEET- MEATS, Sec. SWEET DISHES. Buttered Rice. " ash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire , when tender, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that it do not burn, and serve. Souffle of Rice and Apple, Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry; then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish; having egged the dish where it is put to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half-way up with the marmalade of apples : have ready the. whites of four eggs, beaten to a line froth, and put (hem over the marmalade : then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should i>e warm enough to give it a beautiful colour.220 DOMESTIC COOKERY,. Snow-kails. Swell rice ia milk, strain it ofi', aud having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon, in each, and boil them well. Lent Potatoes. Beat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or four bitter, when blanched, putting a little orange-flower water to prevent oiling; add eight ounces of butter, foureggswell beaten and strained,. half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with e little flour, the size of a chesnut; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. Serve sweet sauce in a boat to eat with them. A Tansey. Beat seven eggs, yolks and wrhites separately; add a pint of cream, near the same of spinach- juice, and a little tansey-.iuice gaiued by pounding in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a saucepan just to thicken, over the fire; then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. Putts <VAmour. Cut a fine rich puli' paste rolled thin, with tin shapes made on purpose, ouesize less than another in a pyramidical form, and lay them so; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may be done sufhciently, but very pale. Lay different coloured sweetmeats on the edge.-,. A very nice dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. Boil two ounces in apint of milk, with a bit of221 SWEET DISHES. lemon-peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. Floating Island. Mis three balf-piuts of thin cream with a quar- ter of a pint of raisin-wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower water, aud sugar: put into a dish ■ for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, as will be directed in page 231, which may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. Another wav.—Scald a codlin before it be ripe, or any sharp apple; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs w ith sugar, acid a spoonful of orange.-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together nutil you have a large quantity of froth: serve it on a raspberry-cream ; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, cur- rant-jell j, and set it on a white cream, having given it the flavour of lemon, sugar, and wine, as above; or put the froth on a custard. Flummery. Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it off clear, aud add as much more water and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a tine hair sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as hasty pudding; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, aud two of oiange-flower water, pour it into shallow dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk, or cream, and sugar. It is very good. Dutch Flummery. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water very gently half an hour; add a pint of222 DOMESTIC COOKERY. white wine, the juice of three, and the thiu rind of i one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and with them add as- much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough ; and having beaten (he yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald; stiri all the time, and pour it into a basin: *tir it till half cold; then let it settle, and put it iuto a melon- shape. Rice Flummery. Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consis- tence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a hitter almond beaten; boil it, observing it do not burn ; pour it into a shape or pinl-basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn the flummery iuto a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard' round: or put a tea-cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. Somersetshire Firmity. To a quart of ready-boiled wheat, put bydegr* es- two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four ounces of currants picked clean, and washed; stir them and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg,, with two or three spoonfuls of milk ; add this to the wheat; stir them together while over the fire; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm. Curds and Cream. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan a little warty, and then add rennet or galliuo. When the curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthenSWF.LT DISHES. 2. 5 shape, perforated, of any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turnedonly two hours before wanted, it is very light; but those who like it har- der may have it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, inilk, or a whip of cream, 9Ugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or glass bowl, to serve with the curd. .Another wav.—To four quarts of new milk warmed, put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, according to its sourness; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut three or four times across with a saucer, as the whey leaves it; put it into a shape, and till up until it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. A Curd Star. Set a quart of new milk upon the tire with two or three blades of mace ; and when ready to boil, put to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upou a small knife’s point. Let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve season it with sugar and a little cinnamon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your ta^te; aud put into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it thick cream or custard. Blanc-mange, or Blamange. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water half an hour; strain it to a pint and a half of cream, sweeten i', and add some peach water, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. It not to be very stiff illittlo less isinglass will do. Observe to let the224 DOMESTIC COOKERY. blamauge settle before you iuru it into the terms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamange when taken out of the moulds. An excellent Trifle. Lay macaroons and ratafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin-wine as they will suck up ; which, when they have done, pour on them cold rich custard made with ;nofe eggs than directed in the .foregoing pages, and some rice-flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry jam, aud coyer the whole with a very high whip made the day before, of rich cream, tin whites of two well-beaten eggs, Sugar, leruon-peel, and raisin wine, well beat with a whisk, kept only to whip syllabubs and creams. If made the day before used, it has quite a diffe- rent taste, and is solid and far better. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle. Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as. when pulped through a sieve, w ill make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish: if of apples, mis the rind of half a lemon grated fine ; aud to both as • much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the tire, and stir it ali the time; do not let it boil; add a little sugar only, and lei it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon; and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other Trifle. Chantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle. Bake a rice cake in a mould. IV hen cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. I22* SWEET DISHES. Pat in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry-jam, and then put on a high whip. Gooseberry Fool. Pat the fruit into u stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar; set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce- pan of water over the fire; if the forms)-, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, boiled together, or an egg instead of the latter, and left to be cold: then sweeten it pretty well with tine Lisbon sugar, aud mix the pulp by degrees with it. Apple Fool. Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and th* n peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c. and mix as before. Orange F<x>l. Mix the juice ofthree Sevilleoruuges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and vveeten toyour taste. Set the whole over a slow lire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, bat it must not be boiled; then pour it into a dish foresting cold. A Cream. Boil half a pint of cream, aud half a pint of milk, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few al- monds, beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orauge-llowcr water, and a tea-spoonful of of Hour, having been rubbed down with a little cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold put a little bit of lemon-juice to the cream, aud serve it in cups or lemonade-glasses.226 DOMESTIC COOKERY. An excellent Cream. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, halt a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a sieve, or in a room, and next da\ put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glaze with isin- glass. Or you may use macaroons, to line the edges of the dish. Burnt Cream. Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some lemon-peel: take it oft the fire, and pour it very slowlv into the yolks of four eggs, stirring tiil half cold; sweeten, and take out the spice, &c. pour it into the dish; when cold, strew white poun- ded sugar over, and brown it with a salamander. Another way.—Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon-peel in it. IV hen cold, silt a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. Sack Cream. Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich cream, and aflerwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with loDg pieces of dry toast. Brandy Cream. Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and poun- ded bitter almonds, in a little milk. TV hen cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put to >t two glasses of the227 SWEET DISHES. best orandy ; and when well mixed pour to it a quart of thin cream ; set it over the tire, but do not Jet it boil; stir one way till it thickens f'nen norr inlo caps or low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia drop .'.vv; be put in each if you choose it. If yon wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. Ratajia Cream. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarin6 lea\ es, in a full pint of cream; strain it, nnd when cold, add the yolksjof three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. Another way.—Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratatia, the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly fla- voured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days. fjemon Cream. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well heaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon : boil it up, then stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon in a dish, or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Yellow Lemon-Cream, without Cream. Pare four lemons very thin into twelve large spoonfuls of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely-pounded sugar; beat the yolks of nine eggs well ; add the peels and juice beaten to- gether for some time ; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block-tin saucepan; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or228 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peei will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, aud give a better colour and flavour. White Lemon-cream Is made the same as the above; onlv put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extreme- ly well to froth. Imperial cream, Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to sen e in, the juice of three lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream; which pour into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before, it be served, and will be still bet- ter if a day. Almond Or earn. Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, in mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent oiling, both having been blanched, l’ut the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened; Beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off ou the shallow part of a sieve; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. Snore Cream. Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of leinon-peel; whip it to a froth, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. Coffee Cream, much admired. Boil a calf s foot in water till it wastes to a pintSWEET DISHES. of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea- cup of very strong cotfee: clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, aud add a pint of very good cream, and as much tine Lisbon sugar as is pieasaut; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresh. Chocolate Cream. Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sngar ; boil aud mill it; when quite smooth, take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk ; and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done ; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Codim Cream. Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat them in a mortar, w ith a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish; aud put sugar, bread-crums, and a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. Excellent Orange Cream. Boil the rind of a Seville orauge very tender; beat it line in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four oun- ces of loaf sugar, aud the yolks of four eggs ; beat all together for ten minutes; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint, of boiling cream; beat till cold; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Raspberry Cream. Mas/ the fruit gently, and let them drain ; then230 DOMESTIC COOKERY. sprinkle a little sugar over, and that ill produce in ore juice; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle ; which it would if put to the milk before the cream; but it is best made of raspberry jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings, in three pints of cream aud new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted ; strain it through a hair sieve into a basiu ; when cool, put about half a pint of raspberry-juice; or syrup, to the milk aud cream; stir it till well incorporated : sweeten, and add a glass of brandy . whisk it about till three parts cold ; then put it iuto a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; in winter, «yrup of raspberries. Spinach Cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon, or a whisk; sweeten them a good deal: and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach-juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, inloug slices, and pour the mixture over them. It is to be eaten cold ; and is a dish either for supper, or for a second course. Pistachio Cream. Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; beat them line with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten; let it just boil, and put into glasses. Clouted Cream. String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them231 SWEET DISHES. to a gill of new milk, and six spoonfuls of rose- water; simmer a few minors; then by degress stir this liquor strained iuto he yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, and set it o\er the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pour itinto a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of cream; in whieli case use a quart of new milk, and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. Vi hen done enough a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pau it is done in, which in the country they cal! the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pau from the (ire. A Froth to act on Cream, C»stard, or Tri fle, which foots and eats well. Sweeten half a pound of pulp of damsons, or any other sort of .scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them un- til it stand a? high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c. with a spoou, it will take any form ; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats. Dissolve eight ounces of donble-refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; then put it into a copper untamed skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoou into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done enough; but only let it be three parts cold, then pour the water from the su- gar, and having a copper form oiled well, run the232 DOMESTIC COOKERY sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold yon may put it on the dish it is to cover ; butt if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour oil the v a- tcr, and return it into the skillet. aDd boil it again. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a most elegant cover Calf's Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted!; straiu it, and when cold, take off the fat, and re- move the jelly from the sediment; then put it ini.- a saucepan, with sugar, raisin-wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour is rich, putto it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins- to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises* to a head ; then pour it through a flaunt 1 jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through an3 through until clear; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will gready facilitate the clearing of jelly: When the mixture has boil'd two. ty minutes, throw iu a tea-cupful of cold waver; let it boil five minutes longer; then lake the saucepan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which it may be so clear as to need only once running through tire bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feel fur all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, that they are less nutri- tious: tin y should be only scalded, to take off tho hair. The liquor w ill require greater care iu remo- ving the fat; but the jelly will hefar stronger, and of course allow more water. Note : jelly is equally233 SWEET DISHES. food made of cow-heels nicelj < leaned ; and as they ’>ear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful. Another wa>.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s-feet, or two cow-heels, that have been only scalded, till half wasted: take the jelly from the fat and sediment; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wire, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce ofallspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should ' -il lifteeu minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. "W hile running, take a tiftle jelly, and mix with a tea-eupful of water in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; and tills is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate : but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine high colour and flavour. ’ , Orange Jelly, Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oran- ges, and two lemons : sqeeze the juice of three of each, and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of i pound of lump sugar and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready i quart of isinglass jelly made with two ounces ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up; strain off he jelly, and let it staud as above, before it is put into the mould. Hartshorn Jelly. Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with two quarts of water to one; strain it, and boil it with the rinds of four China oranges aud two lemons 17DOMESTIC COOKERY. 234 pared thin ; when cool, add the juice of both, hah a pound of 9ugar, and the whites of six eggs beatei to a froth ; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly-bag Cranberry Jelly. Make a strong isinglass-jelly. When cold, mill it with a double quantity of cranberry-juice, press ed as directed, sweeten and boil it up ; theu strait: it iuto a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly wiLl not be clear. Cranberry and Rice Jelly. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees iniv intoitasmuch ground rice us will, wi ei boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it geutly, stirring it. and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin o form, and serve to eat as the afore-directed jelly with milk or cream. Apple Jelly to serve at table. 'Prepare twenty golden pippins ; boil them in t pint and a half of water from the spriug, till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a colander To every pint put a pound of line sugar; add gra ted orange or lemon ; then boil to a jelly. Another.—Prepare apples as before by boiling and str.lining ; have ready half an ounce of isiuglas: b<-led in half a pint of water to a jelly ; put this t< the apple water, and apple as strained through < coarse sieve ; add sugar, a little leiuon-juice ant peel; boil all together, aiid put into a dish. Take out the peel. To scald Codlins. Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them clos< in a nice saucepan ; and when full, pour as mac'235 SWEET DISHES. water as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or custard ; if the lat- ter, mere should he no ratafia. Dust fine sugar aver the apples. Stewed Golden Pippins. Scoop out the core, pare them very thin, and as fou do it, throw them in water. For every pound >f fruit, make half a pound of single-refined sugar nto syrnu, with a pint of water; when skimmed, mt the pippins in, and stew till clear; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful lot to let them break. They are an elegant and good dish for a corner >r dessert. Black Caps. Halve and core some fino large apples, put them n a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake hem. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and ■wet-ten it for sauce. Another way —Take off a slice from the stalk nd of some apples, and core without paring them. Hake ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to weeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon, nd a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes s close as possible with this, and turn the flat end own on a stew-pan ; set them on a very slow fire, pith half of raisin wine, and the same of water ; over them close, and now aud then haste them with he liquor ; when done enough, black the tops with salamander. Stetoed Pears. Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, accord- g to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin236 DOMESTIC COOKERY. is taken off. before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a Mock-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as vril: make them pretty sweet, add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked; just cover then, with water, and put some of the red liquor, as di- rected in another article. Cover them close, ant stew three or four hours ; when tender, take their: out, and pour the liquor from them. Balt T Pears. These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to oat raw. Wipe, but do not pare, and lay mem on tin plate , and bake them in a slow'oven. W7hei enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. Orange Butter. Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar witl two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to i paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, anc ■.chon all is mixed, rub it through a colander on * dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. Wine Roll. Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till i will hold no more ; put it in the dish, and poui round it a custard, or cream, sugar, and leraoi juice. Just before it is served, sprinkle over i some nonpareil comfits ; or stick a few blanche< slit almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll*WSET DISHES. 237 To prepare Fruit for Children, a far more , wholesome way than in Pies and Puddings. • Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseber- ries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the frnit, or added when eaten; the rice being plain-boiled. To prepare Tee for Teeing- Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to pow- der, throw a large handful and ahalf of salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of the warm air comes as you can possibly contrive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and roverit; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a few min- utes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it wrell, re- moving the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream, or water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice. as you cannot use a spoon to that without dan- ger of waste. There should be boles in the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. Note.—W hen any fluid tends towards cold, the moving it quickly accel rates the cold ; and like- wise when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. Ice Waters. Rub some line sugar on lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either ou its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it beDOMESTIC COOKERY. 238 put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater prope r tion should be of the China juice, and only a iittl of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by th sugar. Carrant or Raspberry-water Ice. , The juice of these, or any other cort of fruit, be ing gained by squeezing, sweetened, and mixed ■will water,* will be ready for iceing. Ice Creams. Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugak as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a middling richness. Brown Bread Ice. Grate as fine as possible stile brown bread, soal- a small proportion in cream two or three hours sweeten ami ice it. Ratafia, Ci am. Blanch a quarter of an ounce of bitter atmonds.- aml beat then) with a tea spoonful of water in a mar- ble mortar; then rub with the paste two ounces o: lump-sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a tea- cup of cream, wliichadd to a quart more of cream and having strained, ice it. Colourings to stain Jellies, Ices, or Calces For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of coch- ineal m the finest powder, with a dram and a ball of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add iu boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, aud some liquor poured over. For white,use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop ol water; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor aud squeezed.SWEET DISHES. •iVJ For okeen, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea-cup in a sauce pan of water to take nfl' the rawness. London Syllabub. Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it uear two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will re- quire more for this quantity of milk. In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. Staffordshire Syllabub. Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar and nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. A very fine Somersetshire Syllabub. In a large China bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In twenty minutes’time cover it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon, uDd nonpareil comfits. Devonshire Junket. Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinna- mon, on the top, without breaking the curd. Everlasting, or Solid, Syllabubs. . Mix. a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of relined sugar, a pint and a half of line raisin w ine, iu a deep pan ; put to it the grated peol aud the juice of three lemons. Beat, or whisk it one way, half an hour ; then put it on a sieve -with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth iuthe shallow end till uextiiOMF.SriC COOKERY. 2-10 tlay. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a. cool place, ten days. Lemon Honeycomb. Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the disii that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it ou the lemon-juice. Do it the day be- fore it is to be used. Rice and Sago Milks Are made by washing the seeds nicely, and sun. menng with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The former sort requires lemon, spice, aud sugar: the latter is good withont auv thing to tia- vour it. A pretty Supper Dish. Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it - in mi k nil tender; strain off the milk, lav therict tn little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely powder. d sugar aud cinnamon, and put warm w ine and . little butter into the dish. Savoury Rice. Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal or rich mutton broth, v, ith au onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to mash, dry it on the sh d- low end of a sieve before the lire, and either serve n dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. Carrole of Rice. l ake some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it five minutes in writer, strain it, and put it into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice241 SWEET DISHES. oi ham, and an onion. Stew it over a ver>- gent - fire till tender; hare ready a mould lined wi.h very thin slices of bacon . mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with it about half an inch thick ; put into it a ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else, hill up the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven a hour, turn it over, and send it to table iu a good gravy, «r curry-sauce. Casseroi, or Rice Edging, see page 149. Salmagundy Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colours of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half a dozen anchovies, beetroot, red pickled cabbage, ham and grated tongue, or any thing well fia* oured, and of good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer large tea-cup, or any other hasp, must be put into a small dish; theu make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller towards the top- choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little spng of curled parsley may be stuck in; or, with- out any thing on the dish, the stdmaguudv mav be . lsidin rows, or put into the half-whites’of eggs Which may be made to stand upright bv cutting off a little bit at the round end. In the latter case each half egg has but one ingredient. Curled but- ler and parsley may be put as garnish between. Macaroni, as usually served. Bod it in milk, ora wc;di veal-broth, pretty well flavoured with salt. When tender, put it into aDOMESTIC COOKERY. 212 dish without the liquor, and amongit put .-u:ne bits of butter aud grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top become hard. Another way.—Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, puttheyolk of au egg beaten in a spoonful of cream : just make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the mac- aroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander. Another.—Wash Ihe macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated line. Warm some blitter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through alittle earthen colander all over the crums, then put the dish in a Dutch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a tine colour. The bread should be in separate crums, and look light. Omlet. Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour : put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the latter is best,) or a very small quantity of shallot, a little pepper salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boil in a small fry- ing-pan, aud pour the above batter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it, and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a prettv sized omlet: but many cooks will use eight or tea- A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tarragon givesSWE-ET DISHES. 243 a fine flavour. V good deal of pursley should be used. Ramakins and omlet, though usually oerved in the course, would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. Butter to servo as a little Dish. Roll butter in different forms ; either like a pine, and make the marks with a tea-spoon ; or roll it in crimping rollers, work it through a colander, or scoop with a tea-spoon, and mis with grated ueef, tongue, or anchovies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. Ramakins. Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh but- ter ; then bent all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a 3mall French roll boiled iu cream till soft; mix the paste then with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small paper pans made rather long than square, and bake in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the ad- dition of a glass of white wine. The batter for ramakins is equally good over macaroni when boiled tender ; or on stewed broc- coli, celery, or cauiifiower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed iu being putin the dish with them, but not enough to make the vegetables swim. Poitid Cheese. Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, on ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spooufol of v. bite pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, ami a glass of white wine. Press it down in a deep pot.I>OMESTIC COOKERY. 244 Roost Cheese, to come up after Dinner. Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a desert-spoonful 01 mustard and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven cov- ered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. Welsh Rabbit. Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter :t; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. Cheese Toast. Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a mass ; spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. Anchovy Toast. Bone and skin six or eight anchovies; pound them to a mass with one ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toast or rusks. Another way.—Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three ruchovies split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles.SWEET DISHES. ^45 To poach Eggs. Set a stew-pan of water on the fire : when boil- ing, slip an egg, previously broken into a cup, into the water; when the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As 3oon as enough tire done, serve hot. If not fresh-laid, the will not poach well, and without breaking. Trim the rag- ged parts of the whites, and make them look round. Buttered Eggs. Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boiling water ; stir it till melted, then pour that butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the saucepan in '.he other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the saucepan, and pouring it into the basdi, more perfectly to mix the egg and but- ter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread; or in a basin, to eat with salt fish, or red herrings. Scotch Eggs. Boil hard five pullets' eggs, and without remov- ing the white, cover completely with a fine relish- ing forcemeat, in which, let scraped ham, or chop- ped anchovy, bear a due proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve witli a good gravy in the dish. A Pepperpot. To three quarts of water, put such vegeta bles as you choose; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, ;tnd two or three onions ; in winter, carrot, turnip.DOMESTIC COOKKRY. 246 onions, and celery. Out them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of mutton,^ and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. H alf an hour before serviug, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled m .be above. Season with salt and Cay enue. Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. 1 ep- per-pot may be made of various things, and is un- derstood to be a proper mixture of fish,flesh, row 1, vegetables, and pulse. A small quantity c. nee should be boiled with the whole. The Staffordshire Dish of frying Herbs and Liver. Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vegetables, page 209; on which lay slices of liver fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed at the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed round-; or they may be served on the herbs, and the liver garnished with the bacon separately. T) presence Suet a twelvemonth. As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skiu and veins. In a very nit e saucepan, set it at some distance from the fire, that it inav melt without frying, or it will taste. When melted, pour it into » pan of cold water. When in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry but not hot place. When used, scrape it line, and it will make a fine crust, either with or with- out butter.•247 SWEETMEATS. ' To green Fruits for preserving or pickling. 1 Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches* while fH'een, for the first, or radish-pods, French beans tor the latter, and cucumbers for both pro- cesses ; and put them with vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin preserving-pan, with spring- water to cover them, and then the tin cover to ex- clude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leave? when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice ; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. To clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats. Break as much as required in large Jumps, and put a pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when brokeu small. Set it over the fire, and the well-whipt white of an egg; let it boil up, and, w hen ready to run over, pour a little cold water in to give it a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, and set it by inthepau for aquarter of au ho ,:r,duriug which the foulness will sink to the bottom, aud leave a black scum on the top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. To candy any sort of Fruit. When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new sieve, aud dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some m. re in the sieve. Haveready sifted double-reflDed sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oveD, and turn it two or three times.248 DOMESTIC COOKERY. jt must not be cold till dry. V atch it carefully,. and it will be beautiful. To prepare Barberries for Tartlets. Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, and to every pound weigh three quarters of I a pound of lump-sugar : put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth, or in a sauce- pan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft: put them and the sugar into a preserving-pan,, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use no metal but silver. Barberries in bunches. Have ready bits of flat white wood, three inches long, and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the fruits on the stick from within an inch ol one end to beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer them in some syrup two suc- cessive days, covering them each time with it when cold. When they look clear they are simmered enough. The third day,do them like other candied fruit. See receipt for it above: it is at the top of: this page A beautiful Preserve of Apricots. When ripe, choose the finest apricots : pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the mean time break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a pre- sening-pan. Let it simmer very geudy till clear; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The skum must be taken oil'as it rises. Cover with brandy paper.SWBKTM r AT. 249 To preserve Apricots in Tplly. I’ re the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in tine powder, and strew over :t. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. T o following day pour the liquor to a quart of cod- lin-liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar: let it boil quickly till it will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, 8kim well, and put into small pots. To preserve green Apricots. Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pau, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves ; then till withspung water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, aud drain the fruit. When, both are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots green, but on no account boil or crack; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup for two or three days ; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, nd boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Apricots or Peaches in Brand//. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, aud have ready; a quarter of the weight of line sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close, threw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into 1H250 DOMESTIC COOKERY. a saucepan of water till the brandy be at. hot as yon can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. To dry Apricots in half. Pare thin, and halve four pounds of apricots, weighing them after ; put them in a dish ; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest pow- der. When it melts, set the fruit, over a stove 1.1 do very gently ; as each piece becomes tender take it out and put it into a china bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, poui the syrup over them. 1 n a day or two remove the syr- up, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two more, turn them, and so continue daily till quite : h y, in the sun or in a warm place. Keep in boxes with layers of paper. Apricot Cheese. W eigh an equal quantity of pared fruitand sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour will be spoiled : blanch the kernels, and add to it. Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots or cups half-filled. Orange Marmalade, Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil tfie rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Soil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind; boii fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully ; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seed having been remuved, and a pint of apple-liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots.8W EF.TM EATS. 2:.l Lemon makmai ade do in tlie same way; they are very good and elegaut sweetmeats. Transparent Marmalade. Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters, take the pulp out, and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds and skins Let the outsides soak in water with a little salt all night, then boil them in a good quan- tity of sprung water till tender; drain, and cut them in very thiu slices, and put them to the pulp ; and toevery pound, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar beaten tine ; boil them together twenty min- utes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it iuto glasses. To butter Oranges hot. Grate off a little of the outside rind of four Seville orsnges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end op- posite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp and seeds and juice ; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges with a littie salt, and lay them in water for a short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to tnke out the bitterness. In the mean time make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up ; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need nor be enough to cover them, ana let them remain in if hot till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire ; mix it well, and let it boil: then add a spoonful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken; fill theDOMESTIC COOK HRV. 252 oranges'with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the bits ou the top. To fill preserved Oranges ; a comer dish. For five take a pound of Naples biscuits, some blanched almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter wanned: grate the biscuits, and mis wkh ihe above and some orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, s> ft sugar over them as soon as filled; otherwise' wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well; it so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become cold. Whole Oranges carved. Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a pen-knife; cut a bit. off near and ronnd the stalk, and with an apple-scoop take all the pdlp careiully out; put them into salt and water two days, chan- ging it daily ; boil them an hour or more in fresh salt and water; drain them quite dry: let them stand a night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the nextt day a few minutes. Do this four days successive! y. Let them stand six or seven weeks, observing often. whether they keep well: otherwise boil the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. Buttered Orange-juice, a cold dish. Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four egg;, well beaten; then strain the liquor to half a pou nd of sugar, pounded, stir it over a gentle lire, and when it be- gins to thicken, put about the siee of a small walnut of butter: keep it over the fire a few in inutes longer: then pour it into a flat dish, and servo it to eat coM.253 5WP.ETMr.ATt. I you have no silver saucepan, do it in a China basin in a saucepan of boiling water, the top of which will just receive the basin. Orange Chips. t in oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve ; souk the peel in water; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and pot ali together into a broad earthen dish, ami put 0'er the lire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy ; then sc: them in a cool room ■D dry. They will not be so under three weeks. Orange Biscuits or little Cakes. Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters till most of ihe bitterness is gone ; cut them, and’ take out the pulp and juice ; then beat the outside very flno in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight or double-refined sugar beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on China dishes, ,uid set them in the son, or before the fire ; when half-dry, cut it into what form vou please turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them tn a box, with layers of paper. They are for desserts; and are also useful as a stomachic, to carry in the pocket on journeys, or \ ntlemen when shooting, and for gouty stomachs Orange-flower Cakes. Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour, drain, and put between napkins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised: then have ready-boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a trimmer until th ■ syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little caker on a plate, and dry as before directed.254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To preserve'Orange# or Lemons in Jelly. Cul dhole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. Tie each se- perately in muslin, and lay them in spring water two days, changing twice a day; in the last boil them tender on a slow tire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow' for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar, and cne pint of water ; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well, and let it stand to be cold ; then boil the fruit in a syrup half an hour: if not clear, do this daily till they are dene. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them; do not break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined 1 sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain oil' the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole upwards ra the jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, SjC. When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside iu w ater, without the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they are tolerably dry, throw' them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats ; or if yon have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of com- mon loaf sugar and water, and put ove; them; in255 SWEETMEATS. a week .11 days boil them ently in it till they look clear, and that they may be covered with it in the jar You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy small space. To prose)~oe Strawberries rvhole. Take equal weights of the fruit aud double-refi- ned sugar, lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder, over; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under side of the fruit. N ext day make a thin syrup with ihe remainder of thesngar, and, instead of v ater, allow one pint of red-currant juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets or others, when not dead-ripe. In either of the above ways, they eat well served in thin cream, in glasses. To preserve Strawberries in Wine. Put a quantity 0c the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, aud strew in three large spoonfuls of sugar; fill up with Madeira wine, or Une sugar. To dry Cherries with Sugar. Stone six pounds of Kentish ; put them into a preserving pan. with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them; simmer till they begin to shrivel; then strain them from the juice; lay thorn on a hot hearth, or inanovei, when either is cool enough to dry without baking them. The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. To dry Cherries without Sugar. , Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving pan: let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in China common di. hes next day give them another scald, and put256 DOMESTIC COOKERY. them, when cold, on sieves, to dry, in an oven of attemperated beat as above. Twica beating, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box with a paper between each layer. To dry Cherries the best way. To every five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double-refined. Put the fruit into the preserving-pan with a very little water, make both scalding hot; take the fruit immediately out and dry them; put them into the pail again, shewing the sugar between each layer of chen-ies; let it stand to melt; theD set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding hot as before; take it off', and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Drain them from the syrup, and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun, or on a stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it instantly out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth; dry them, and set them once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, with lay- ers of white paper in a dry place. This way is the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. Cherries in Brandy. Weigh the finest morellas, having cut off hall the stalk; prick them with a new needlefi and drop t hem into ajar or wide-mouth bottle. Pound three quar- ters the weight of sugar or white candy ; strew over; fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over Cherry Jam. To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries* when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; 1 reak the stones of part, and blanch them ; then put them to the fruit and sugar, and bed all gently till he jamSWEETMEATS. com >8 chmr from the pan. Pour it into China plates to come up dry to tabic. Keep in boxes with white paper between. Current Jam, black, red, or white. Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quar- ters of a pound of loaf-sugar; stir it well, and boil half an hour. Currant Jelly, red or black. Sirip the fruit, and in a stone jar strew in a saucepan of water, or by boiling it on the Lot hearth; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it. in a stone or China vessel, till nearly dissol- ved ; then put it into a preserving-pan; simmer and skint as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. Apple Marmalade. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core* then take an equal weight of sugar iu large lumps: just dip them in water, and boiling it till it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pul]>, and simmer it on a quick lire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled, but if too much it w ill be bitter. Apple Jelly far preset cigg Apricots, or for any sort of Sweetmeats. Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored; put them into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them ; boil them as fast as possible; when the fruit is all in a mash, add a quart of water; boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly-hag. If iu summer, codlins are best; in September, widen rennets, or winter-pippins.domestic cookeky. 258 Red Apples in Jelly. Pare and core some well-shaped apples, pippins or ‘'olden rennets if yon have them, but others will do; throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a preserving-pan, and with as little water as will only halt-cover them ; let them coddle, and when the. lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put m. Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served iri, the stalk downwards. Take the water, and make a rich jelly of it with Icaf-siurar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. M hen come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on among the apples ; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across the eye of the apple. Observe that the colour be fiae from ine fir>t, or the fruit will not afterwards gain it; and use as little of the cochineal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. Dried Apples. Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flatten them by degrees, and gently, when suit enough to bear 'd. If the oven be too hot they • U waste ; and at first it should be very cool. The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, arc the sorts for drying. To preserve Jury ami Pears most beautifully. Pare them very diin, and simmer in a thin syrup j lei them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again; and repeat this till they are clear, then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich.25# SWEETMEATS. Gooseberry Jam for Tarts. . Put twelve pound? of the red hairy gooseberries, when ripe and ga'hered in dry weather, into a pre- serving-pan, with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly; let them boil pretty quick, and beat them v>:ih the spoon; when the begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbou sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or w; 11 net keep; but is an excellent and reasonable thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three flays, and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the bottom. Another.—Gather your gooseberries (the clear white or green sort) when ripp; top and tail, and w>‘igh them; a pound to three quarters of a pound of tine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar aud water ; then put the fruit, acd boil gently till clear: then break, and put into small pots. White Gooseberry Jam. Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you choose, when just ripe ; top aud tail them. To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as directed in page 247 ; then add the fruit; simmer gently till clear, then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into smal l pots. Gooseberry Hops. Of the largest green walnut kind, take and rut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole; pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine-leaves at the bottom of a200 DOMESTIC COOKERY. tia-preserving pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer cf leaves, and so on; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam ran get out, set it by a > slow fire till scalding hot; then take it of)' till cold, and so do till, on opening while cold, the goose- berries are of a good green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup 01 a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well: when half cold, put in the fruit; next day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week : but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions adding a slice of. ginger in boiling: when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold, pear it. over them If the fifst syrup be found too sour, a little sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the eops that are for dry ing have their last boil. The extra syrup w ill serve for pies, or go towards other sweetmeats. Raspberry Jam. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; put the former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir censiaDtly, and let it boil quickly. When moat of the juice is wauted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. A noth e r w ay.—Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of w ater, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then fake away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit: boil and bruise it half an hour, i-Uen out in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and-Til SWEETMEATS. adding tlie same quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for ma- king the jelly for raspberry-ice or cream. To preserve Greengages. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften» split them without paring, and strew a part of the sugar which you have previously weighed an equal quantity of. Blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, emJ boil it with the other sugar, six or eight min- utes, very gently ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruitsingly into small pots, and pour the s} rup and kernels to it. if you would caudy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the directions that will be given for candying fruit; some may be done each way. Damson Cheese. Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit, weigh halt a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a tire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begin to look dry; take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan candy ; pour the jam then into potting-par.s or dishes about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked then the juice is not to be taken out.; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked? or som<- of them, and the kernels boiled lathe jam.262 DOMESTIC COOK Ell Y. All the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate’ but do not add the sugar until it has done so. 1 he above looks well in shapes. Muscle-plum Cheese. Weigh six pounds of the fruity bake it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and e half of good Lisbon : when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much evaporated, takiu<r care to stir it constantly, lest it bum. Pour it into small moulds, pattypans, or saucers. The remaining juice may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. Biscuits of Fruit. To the pulp of auy scalded fruit put an equal weight of sugar sifted, beat it two hoars, then put it mto little white paper forms, dry iu a cool oven, turn the next day, and in two or three days box them. Quince Marmalade. Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quan- tity of sugar; to four pounds of the latter, put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have it ready against four pounds of quinces are tolerably tender, by the following mode : lay them in a stone jar v. Hh a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed betw een , cover the jar close, and set it on n stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour become red; then pour the fruit syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving-pan. and boil all together till the mar* n alade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be notdone as above it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces iu a jar, and then squeezing themWINES. 331 of sugar skim it, when cool, put a littieto a quarter of a pint of yeast, aiul so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour tlie. small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry ; the quantity for the above is twelve quarts. Tho se who gather from their own gardeu may have not snflieieut to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Kack it otf, empty the barrel ot the dregs, and adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks: then bottle it. FxceUcnt Raisin Wine. To every gallon of spring-water, put eight pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub ; stir it thoroughly every day for a monlh ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask ; and when it has done hissing, pour iu a bottle of the best brandy; slop it close for twelve mouths ; then rack it off, but without the dregs ; tiltre them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds; add the clear to the quantity, and pour oue or two quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of three years, you may cither bottle it, or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. Raisin Wine with Cider. Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cider that is not rough; stir it well two or three days ; stop it, and let it stand six mouths :DOMESTIC COOKERY. 202 then rack into a cask that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer- well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off i one year’s wine just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen months old. In cider-counties this way is very economical; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition of another quarter of a hundred ot raisins would be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed through a horse- hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if for that purpose, they must be very little pressed ;) or they will make excellent' vinegar, on which, on which article see page 143. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making ; being very acid. Raisin Wine without Cider. On four hundred weight of Malagas pour one hogshead of spring-water, stir well daily for four- teen days, then squeeze the raisins in horse-hair bag in a press, and tun the liquor ; when it ceases- to hiss, stop it close. In six mouths rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing, out the sediment, return it into the same, but do not wash it; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it dose, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to the preceediug receipt. Sack Mead. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking3)3 WINES, 8iC. c; re to skim it. T.> every gallon add an ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand, till next day : put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. Cowslip Mead. Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take it oft'the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of Iciuons quartered ; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them ; put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, with seven perks of cow- slip-pips ; let tberu remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet-brier: stir all well together ,and let it work for three or fourdays. Strain it, and put into the cask : let it stand six months, and then bottle it for keeping. Imperial. Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and paring of two lemons, into a stonp jar; pour on them seven quart* of boiling water, stir, and cover close. When cold, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and straining it bottle and cork it tight. This is a very pleasant liquor, and very whole- some ; but from the latter consideration was at onetime drank in such quantities, as to become injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint of rum to the whole quantity. Ratafia. Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernel.--, bruise, and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of wh .<DOMESTIC COOKERY. 801 sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained oft', then filtre through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peaches and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ra- tafia in puddings. Raspberry Brandy. Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, ttU the juice will run ; strain, and to every pint add half u pound of sugar, give one boil and skim it; when cold, put equalquautities of juice and brandy, shake well, and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. An excellent method of making Punch. Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large lumps of double refined sugar. Hub the sugar over the lentous till tl has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons tnay be supposed to re- quire ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidity of a lemon caunot be known till tided, and therefore this must he determined by tiie taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar; and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of die richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thor. uglily performed. Then mix this up very well with boil- ing water (soft water is best) till the whole is ra- ther cooi. When this mixture (which is now call- ed the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mix ugWINIS, &C. 305 the whole wc ll together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste: two good lemons are generally enough to make fonr quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound ef sugar ; but this depends much on taste, and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet may be strained before the liquor is putin. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the su- gar, which is improper; as when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter Mill soften the puuch ; and even when both rum and hrandy are used, the porter gives a rich- ness. and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt has never been in print before, but is greatly admired amongst the writer’s friends. It is impossible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extremely Well, that ail the different articles may be most thorougly incorporated together Verdcr, or Milk Punch. Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stop- ped close twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk, boiling hot: stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag lill perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close imme- diately. Norfolk Punch. In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels >f thirty lemons and thirty oraugj , pared so thindomestic cookery. 306 that aot the least of the white is left. Infuse twel ve hours. Have ready thirty quarts ot cold -water that has boiled ; put to it fifteen pounds of double- refined sugar; and when well mixed, pount upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice ot the oranges and of twenty-four lemons; mix well: then strain through a very fine hair sieve, into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar: bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks ot the best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and improves by age. Another ay.—Pare six lemons and three oe- ville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice mto a large teapot, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white wine, and one of milk, and one pound and I a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then' covered for twenty-four hours, strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. White Currant Shrub. Strip the fruit and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; strain the juice, of which put tw o quarts to one gallon of ruin, and two pounds of lump-sugas; strain through a jelly-bag. PART XI. DAIRY AND POULTRY. DAIRY. The servants of each country are generally ac- quainted with the best mode of managing the b utter337 UAIRY. and clmese of that country; but the following hints may not be unacceptable, 10 give information to the mistress. On the Management of Coxes, &c. Cows should be carefully treated; if their teats are sore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a day ; and either be dressed with soft oint- ment, or done with spirits and water, lt'the former great cleanliness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. W hen then ilk is broughtintothedairy, it should be strain d and emptied into clean pans immediately m winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. The greatest possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness in adairy ; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor should lie kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown over every part very olten. There should be shutters to keep out the sun, and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. Ti e cow's should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the cjuan'ity will decrease. I he rjuanlity of milk depends on many causes ; as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pasture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture wrill tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy w ill feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they cahe, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemen’s dairies more atten- tion is paid to the size and beauty of the cows, than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese the cows should calve from hadv-day to May, that the large iuautit,y cf milk308 DOMESTIC COOKERY. <a y come into use about the same time ; but in gentlemen's families one or two should calve *u kugust or September for a supply in winter. In p-ond pastures the average produce of a dairy is- aboutthree gallons a day each eow, from Lady-day- t Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to > fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the cowin a week at farthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the'1 cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morning: and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a day in such quantity as is required. If l milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at riigbt and morning. When the family is absent, or there is nota great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the op- portunity to provide for the winter-store ; she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to set down foi her the produce of each week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot' will hold should be marked on each in making in the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated tlie poultry reared in one leaf, and the wee’ h consumption in another part. Observations respecting Cheese. This well-known article differs according to the pasture in which ‘he cows feed. Various modes oi preparing may effect a great deal; and it will be bad <>r good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrary ; but much will still depend on theDAIRY. 30J former circumstance. The same land > ,«*ly makes very tiue butter and remarkably fine cheese • yet due care may give one pretty good, where the other excels in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention ard change ot method may ameud the inferior. There is usually however too much prejudice in the minds of dairy-people, to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the superior. A gentleman has bet n at the expense of procuring cattle from every counts noted for good cheese, and it is affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Chedder, and many other sort.-, are so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the cows arc all on out- estate, it should seem that the mode of ma- king must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour : besides, there is much in the 6ize and manner of keeping. Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skim- med, or mixed milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, bid also in teste. Those who direct a dairy iu a gentlemau’s family should consider in which way it c;ui be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, by taking the w hole of two meals of milk, and proportioning the thickness of the vat to ;he quantity, rather than having a wide, and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a different quality from that usually prod need by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full reed, will be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family use will be veryno DOMESTIC COOKERY. well produced by two meals of skin), and one of new •milk; or in s;ood land, by the skiramilk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for win* ter use, but not to interfere with the cheese, as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Rennet, to turn the Milk. Take out the stomach of a calf as soou as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt afierit is cleared , of the curd, always found in it. Let it drain a few ^ hours: then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep , it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Another way.—Clean the maw as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring water, and put into it a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-brier, and a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, fourblades ofniace, aspring of knotted-marjorani, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water; strain it off: and when only milk-warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It w ill keep good at least twelve months,. and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the a bove. It must be pretty salt I but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt, the veil again for a wreek or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Bo not keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese• Put the milk into a large tub, warminr a part till it is of a degree of heal, quite equal to new ; if too hot, the cheese will be tough, Putin as much renuet aswill turn it, and cover it over. Let it s rnd till completely turned ; then strike the curd d„wj»DAIRY. 311 several times with the skimming-dish, and let it se- parate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste of tire cheese, according as either is obser- ved; one is, to gather it with the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it ott as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd : the last method de- prives it of many of its oily particles, and it therefore less proper, l’ut the vat on a ladder over the tub, and till it with curd by the skimmer : press the curd close With your hand, and add more as it sinks ; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom ; and when full drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese; one by mixing it in the curd w hile in the tub after the whey is out; and the other by putting it iD the vat, and crumbling the card all to pieces with it, after the firs! sqeeziug with the hands has dried it. The first method appears the best on some accounts, but not <m all, and therefore the cu stom of the country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press: in two hoars turn it out, and put a fresii cheese-cloth ; press it again for eight or nine hours; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it stand in thfc press four- teen or sixteen hours ; observing to put the cheeses last made undermost. Before putting them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald them. To preserve Cheese sound. Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and3i2 DO'i 1 STIC COOKERY. wipe it once a month, anrl keep it on a rack. If you v,ant to ripen it, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger: quantity should bespread with butter inside, a":xl die outside wiped, to preserve it. To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out1 from cold water, and wrap round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for serving with macaroni or eating withe ,t. These observations are made with a view to moke the above articles less expensive, as in mostfamiies where much is used there is waste. To make. Sage Cheese. Hruise the lops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze tiie mice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less- according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till h ;s pressed two inches above one vat. ];resD it eigiit or teu hours. Salt it, aud turn every day. Cream Cheese. Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two poonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down two or three tunes with the skin»;niug-dish just to break it Let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain • break the curd a little with your ham], and put it into a lat with a two-pouud weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a iill*t round. Turn every day till dry , from one board to another; cover them with nettles, or clean dock- leaces, and put between two pewter plates to ripen, • f the weather be warm, it will be ready in three weeks.313 dairy. Another.—Tfave ready akettlc of boiling water put five quarts of new milk into a pan, and five pints oi rold water, and five of hot; w hen of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twen- ty minutes, likewise a bit of sugar. "rhen come, su ike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it ou the curd. Iu an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it; put a two-pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. Another sort.—Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as shall season it: stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter plate. Rruk-Oremn Cheese, I To a quart of fresh cream put a piut of new milk warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of sugar, and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes; till a vat made iu the form of a brick, of wheat-straw, or rnshes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, aud another to cover it; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and change it as above to ripen. A half-pound weight will be suffi- cient to put on if. r Another way.—-Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkin on two plates, and pour half ini. ach, let them stand twelvo hours, then put them on a fresh wet napkin in one plate, and cover with the san. ? ; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese begins ^ look dry, then ripen it with nut leaves: it will oe ready in ten days. 2 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 314 Fresh nettles, or tvto pewter plates, will riper: cream-cheese very well. Observations respecting Butter. There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of greater variety in goodness, or that is o more cousequence to have of a superior quality, thar this, and the economizing of which is more necessary The sweetness of butter is not affected by the crean being lurned of which it is made. When cows art in turnips or eat cabbages, the taste is very disa greeable, and the following ways have been triec with advantage to obviate it:— When the milk is strained into the pans, put It every six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre iD a pint of spring-water and put a quarter of a piut to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or when you churn, keep back a quartet i of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a well scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream; stir that well, and do so with every fresh addition. To make Butter. During summer, skim the milk w'hen the sun has not heated the dairy : at that season it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and I forty-eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, change it into scalded fresh pots- but never omit churning twice a week. If possible, put the churn in a thorough air ; and il not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the buttermilk, and put the butter into a fresh scalded-pan, or tubs whidi have after- wards been iu cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness before you work315 DAIRY. it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of the buttermilk remain, ami that the water, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms; throw them into co!d water,in an earthen pan and cover of the qneenV ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest wea- ther. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather; but in neither should be lef; with a particle of buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is sometimes done. To preserve Butter. Take two parts of the best common salt, one part good loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this com- position ; work & well, and pot down when become firm and cold. The butter thuspreserved is the belter for keeping and should not be used under a month. This article should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen pounds each. To preserve Butter for Winter, the best way. . When the butter has been prepared as above"di- rected, take two parts of best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composition put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool: for friction, though it be not touched by th> hands, will soften it. The paus should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt: and when that is turned to briae, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add 30me strong salt and water. It requires only then to be covered Irom the dust.domestic cookery 31G To manage Cream for H hey Bier. Set ihe whey one day and night, skim, it, anil so till you have enough ; then boil it, and pour it into a pm or two of cold water. As the cream rises skim it till no more comes, then churn it. ' here liew-milk cheese is made daily, whey butter for common and presentuse may be made to advantage. To scald Cream, as in the West of England. In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the summer twelve at least; then put the milk - l.au on the hot hearth, if you have one; u no., se- tt in a wide brass kettle of water large^enough« receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite Kba“n'n„ »cco,„„ boil, or tore ri.ta instead of cream upon the milk. You will know when done enough,by the undulations ^surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; the slower the better. Remove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it neat day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours and! never less than two meals. , , The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus prepared, and if properly, it is very lirm. Buttermilk If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most wholesome food. Those who can relish sour butter- milk find it still more light; aud it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. _ Buttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened w^h whije sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It like- wise does equally for cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economical to churn before ‘ oe cream is too stale for anything but to feed pigs.DAIRY. 317 To keep Milk and Cream. In hoi weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently without boiling, and set it by in the earthen dish or pan that it is done in. This method is pursued in Devonshire : and for butter, and eating would equally answer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hour if scalded without sugar; and by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days keeping it in a cool place. Syrup of Cream, May be presert d as above in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place for two or three hours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. Gallino Curds and IVhey, as in Italy. Take a number of tbo rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls: clean them from the pebbles they contain ; rub them well with salt, and bang them to dry. This makes a more tend r and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skiD, and put on it some boiling water : in eight, or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. To choose Butter at Market. 1 tit a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when it is drawn out; if there is anything raucid or unpleasant it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks w ill vary greatly ; and you will not easily come at the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it, between the318 DOMESTIC CO< KERY. staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay and be of an equal coionr all through if sour in smell, it has not been sufficiently washed ; if veiny and open, it is probably mixed with staler, or an inferior sort. POULTRY-YARD. Management of Fowls. In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, and have proper car c taken of them. The Hartford sort is thought highly of; and it is desirable to have a fine large kind, but people differ in their opinion of which is best. The black are very juicy; but do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, and then cut, and either wet w ith skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkeys and fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not be sour The best age for setting a hen, is from two to five years: and you should remark which hens make the best breeders, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless of their young. Injustice to the animal creation, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents ibr tho time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sitting likewise. If the hen-house is not secu- red from vermin, the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers ou their heads ; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable. Some fine young towls should be reared every year, to keep up aPOULT It T YARD. 21'J stock of good breeders; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good slo^k. Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens arelaving, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any other sort are put under an hen with some of her owr. observe to add her own as many days after the others as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will he productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But hens must not he distur- bed while sitting; for if frightened, they sometimes forsake their nest3. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentifully about i heir houses: boil some of the former, and sprinkle it about the floor ; which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun ; and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go iu ; the larger may be let iu and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost, which would prevent the small beasts of prey from committing ravages ; and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long be-320 DOMESTIC COOKERY. fore it others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. The .lay after they are hatched, give them some cjrums of white bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing 3our ; and give them clean water twice a day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will be in two or three weeks; and he sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes firs into their crop, wh<eh softens it; and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction macerates it; and this is facilita- ted by small stones, which are generally found thi re, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let uer be well washed with a decoction of white lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking diny water, or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue is the system. Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situa- tion can prevent: and sixpence or eightpence a score will be buying eggs cheap. To dress Moor-Fowl, with Red-Cabbage. Truss the moor-game as for boiling; put them on with a little soup, let them stew half an hour ; cut a stock of red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor-fowl, season with white pepper and salt, a little piece of butter rolled in flour ; the addition of a glass of port wine is liked by many people. Lift out the cabbage, and place it neatly in the dish, thePOULTRY-YARD. 321 moor-tovrl on :t. Pdur the sauce over them, and garnish with small slices of bacon fried. To fatten fowls or Chickens in four or five days Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only a' much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rrce is quite swelled out: you may add a tea-spoon- ful or two of sugar, but it will do well without, Feed them three times a day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be convey ed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean water or the milk of the rice, to dr*k ; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the flesh will have a cleai whiteness which no other food gives ; ami when it is consid- ered how far a pound of rice will go, und ho v much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheapas barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. To choose Eggs at Marled, and preserve them. Put the large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small division of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a caudle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake, they are not fresh. Eggs may be bought cheapest when the eggs first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be pre- served fresh by dipping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it: or keep on shelves with small boles toDOMESTIC COOLER! 322 receive one in each, and be turned every other day or close-packed in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. Feathers. In towns, poultry beingusuaily sold ready-picked the feathers, which may occasionally come in small ■quantities, are neglected ; but orders should be gi- ven to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occasion a mnstv smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will he lit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode ofdrying them iu a cool oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. Ducks Generally begin to lay in the month of February Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem inclined to sit; then ieave them, and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come outtoseek it; and there should be water placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by their long ab- sence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough; in an early season it is best to set them under a hen; and then they can be kept from wa- ter till they have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold weather they cannot do so well. They should be put under cover, especially in a wet season; for though water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to deiead them.323 P0C1.TRY-YARD. Ducks should he accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous ; and these might be small wooden houses, with a partition in the middle, and a door at each end. They pat any thing : and when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coarse, and in thr. " weeks they will be fat. Geese Require little expense ; as they chiefly support themselves on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed hest, as also are the white and gray. The pied and dark- coloured are not so good. Thirty daysare generally the time the goose sits, bat. in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats ; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. For green-geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble-geese require no fat- tening if they hare the run of good fields. Turkeys. Are very tender when young. As soon as h tched. put three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so careless that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Turkeys are violent •eaters ; and must therefore be left to take charge of them- seJvc . iu geueral, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days, and the young ones must be kept warm, as the least cold or damp kills them. They must be fed often ; and at aDOMESTIC COOKEP Y. 324 distance irorn the hen, who will eat every thing from them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with chop- ped wormwood in it; and their drink milk and! water, but not left to be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come; wea- . sels, stoats, ferrets, See. creep in ?t very Bmall crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a w arm place exposed to the sun, for the firstthree or four weeks;, and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put tinder a turkey : aud when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house ; and give them a little meal in the evening to ac- custom them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oat3 or barley for the lirst fortnight; ami the lr.st fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The flesh w ill be beautifully white and fine fla- voured. The common wfay is to cram their., but. they are so ravenous that it seems unnecessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. Pea Fowl. Feed them as you do turkeys. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after \ hatching: and it is very wrong to pursue them,, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of bringing them home; for it only causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, and by hur- rying she treads upon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow onPOULTRY-YARD. 'Mi the centre of the head with liis bill; aud lie does the saiue by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep them out of his way till the lea- thers rise. Guinea Hens Lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can dis- cover theucst, it is best to put them under common hens, which arc better nurses. They require great warmth, quiet, and careful feeding with rice swell- ed with milk, or bread soaked in it. Put two pep- per-corns down their throat when first hatched. Pigeons Tiring two young ones at a time ; and breed every mouth, if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove-cote be strewed with sand once a month at least. Tares and white peas are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh w ater in their house! Starlings aiul other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise are their great enemies, aud destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigons of the common kind, aud of their owu col- our, among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock-birds; for they are quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove-cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, ond it keeps them in health. Lay u large heap of clay near the house, ami let the salt-brine that may be done with in the family be poured it. Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed is a universal remedy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes shabby; in which case, take a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, and as muchDOMESTIC COOKLRY. 326 common caH ; a pound of fennel-seeds, a pound of dill-seed, as much cummin-seed, and an ounce of assafoetida; mix all with a little wheateu flour, and some fine worked clay; when all are well beaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold put them on the table in the dove-cote; the pigeons will eat it, and thus be cured. Rabbits. The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. Tire tame one brings forth every month, and must be allowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay,oats, beans, sow-thistle, parslev. carrot-tops, cabbage-leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and bo very unwholesome to all who live near them; but attention will prevent this in- convenience.. PART XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. SICK COOKERY. General Remarks. The following pages will contain cookery for the sick : it being of more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to imulate that of persons iu health.SICK COOKFRY. 327 It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; that a change be provided; that someone at least be always ready; that not too much of those be made at once which are not likely to keep, as in- valids require variety; and that they should suc- ceed each other in di Terent forms and flavours. A clear Broth that will keep long. Put the mouse-round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover close with a diFh or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover. M heu cold, cover it close in a coot place. When to be used, give what flavour may be approved. A quick-made Broth. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, tak* oft’ the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin -auce-pan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very- quick ; skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A very support ing Broth against any kind of weakness. Bqil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water, to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A very nourishing Veal Broth. Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal,DOMESTIC COOKERY. $23 with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four ■» shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mare, teu peppi-r-corns, au onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts^ of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and i rimn cr in the slowest manner after it has boiled, up, and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and I take of!' the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. Broth of Beef, Mutton, and 1 "eal. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, < and ten pepper-corns, intoanice tin saucepan, with five quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts, and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion, if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats are more supporting, as well as better-flavoured. To remove the fat fake it off when cold as cleam. as possible; and if there be still any remaining, 4 lay a bit of clean blotting or cap paper oirthe broth when in the basin, and it will take up every par- ticle. Calves’ feet Broth. Boil two feet in three quarts of water, to half; strain and set it by ; when to be used, takeoff the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce- pan. with half a glass of sweet wine, a little 3ugar and nutmeg, and heat it tip till it be ready to boil, theu take a little of it, aud beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but do not let <t boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. Another.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of* 1 veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a peuny-loafj329 SICK COOKERY. two 01 'hrce blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints; strain and take off the fat. Chicken Broth. Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken- panada was made of, as in page 331, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasaut flavour. If not water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, when cold, remove the fat Eel Broth. Clean half a pound of small ells, and set them on with three piuts of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few pepper corns ; let them simmer till the eels are broken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off The above should make three half-pints of broth. Tench Broth. Wake as eel broth above. They are both very nutritious, and light of digestion. Beef Tea. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; sim- mer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. Dr. Ratcliffs Restorative Pork Jelly. Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle lire, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. I*et halt an ounce of mace, and the same of nut- megs, stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. 23DOMESTIC COOKERY. 330 When cold, take off the fat. Giveachocolate-cu | the first and last tiling, and at noon, putting sal to taste. Shank Jelly. Soak twelve shanks of mutton, four hours, the brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in saucepan with three blades of mace, an onior twenty Jamaica and thirty or forty black peppers a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread mad very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts ( water to them, and set them on a hot hearth clos covered : let them simmer as gently as possible fo * five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a col; t place. k This may have the addition of a pound of bee: A if approved, for flavour. It is a remarkably goo thiug for people who are weak. A rroio-root Jelly. Of this beware of having the w rong sort, for i has been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels Put into a saucepan half a pint of w ater, a glas of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg. , and fine sugar ; boil once up, then mix it by de grees tnto a dessert-spoonful of arrow root, previ ously rubbed smooth with two spoonfuls of col water; then return the whole into the saucepan:i stir and boil it three minutes. Tapioca Jelly. Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on t: ; wash it two or three times, then soak it in fresi water five or six hours, and simmer it in the sam< until it become quite clear; then put lemon juice wine, and sugar. The peel should have been bode, in it. It thickens very much.331 SICK COOKERY. Gloucester Jelly. Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringoroot, each an ounce : simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it , will be a jelly ; of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. Panada, made in Jive minutes. Set a little water on the fire with a glass ot white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon-peel; meanwhile grate some crums of bread. The moment the mixture boilsup, keeping it still on the fire, put the crums in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to 'rink, take it off. Another.—Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most : i pleasant mess. .5 Another.—Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, mix the crums in, and when nearly boiled enough, . put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil . all the ingredients; for if any be added after, the dt panada will break, and not jelly. Chicken Panada. J Boil till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, take off the skin,cutthe white meat off when cold, and put into a marble mortar • pound it to a paste with a little of the water it wa3 boiled in, season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, arid the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like ; it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. * This conveys great nourishment in small compass.domestic cookery. 332 Sippets, when the stomach will not receive meat. On an extremely hot plate put two or three sip- pets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there is no butter m the dish. Sprinkle, a little salt over. '" Eggs. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk,‘makes a breakfast more supporting than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten separately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken m small quantity, couvey much nourishment; the yolk only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. A great Restorative. Bake two calves’ feet in two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk, in a jar close-cov- ered, three hours and a half. When cold, remove the fat, , _ ... Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. Whatever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. ... Another.—Simmer six sheep s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to one ; when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. Another.—Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings, -forty Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a quart of water to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house;333 SfCK COOKERY. of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. Another a most pleasant Draught.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of ,'iewmilk, to half, add a bit of sugar, and for change, a bitter almond. - Give this at bed-time, not tooVarm Dutch flummery, blamange, and jellies, as di- rected iu pages 221, 223, and 232, or less rich ac- cording to judgment. Caudle. Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits; strain it when boiled well; stir it at times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. Another.—Boil up Haifa pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. Another.—Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, while it is boiling-hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoon- ful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. M ix by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel with a glass of table-beer, sugar, &c. with or without a tea-spoonful of brandy. Cold Caudle. Boil a quart of spring-water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. A Flour Caudle. Into five large spoonfuls of the purest water rub smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonfuls of new-milk, and put two bits334 DOMESTIC COOK CRY. of sugar into it: the moment it boils, pour info it the flour and water; and stir it oyer a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently as- tringent food. This is an excellent food for babies - who have weak bowels. Rice Caudle. When the water boils, pour into it some grated: rice mixed with a little cold water; when of a proper consistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. Another.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of miik ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the saucepan, with a bruised clove and , a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes; if too thick,add a spoonful or two of milk; and serre with thin toast. To mull Wine. Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve with toast. Another way.—Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large tea- cupful of water; then pour to it a pint of port wiue, and add sugar to your taste ; beat it up, and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. To make Coffee. l*ut two ounces of fresh ground coffee, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight cof- fee-ci ps of boiling water on it; let it boil six min-HICK COOKERY. ntts, pour out a cupful two or three times, and re- turn it again ; then put two or three isinglass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling wa- ter upon it; boil it tive minutes more, and set the pot by the Are to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beautiful clearness. Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and either pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar. If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, Make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before a fire until per- fectly hot and dry ; or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a preserving-pan of a small size, and, when hot, throw the coffee in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold be- fore ground. Cofee Milk. Boil a dessert spoonful of ground coffee, in nearly a pint of mink, a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. This is a very fine breakfast; it should be sweet- ened with real Lisbon sugar of a good quality. Chocolate. Those who use much of this article will find the following mode of preparing it both useful and economical:— Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits ; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in die above ; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boil; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more. When wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mill i. well.3&e I>OWV.STIC COOKERY. This, if not made thick, is a very tjooti break- fast or supper. Patient Cocoa. Is a light wholesome breakfast. Saloop. Boil a little water, wine, lemou-peel, and sugar, together: then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold water ; stir it all together, and boil it a few1 minutes. Milk-Porridge. Make a line gruel of half-grits, long hoik'd ; strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. Serve with toast. French Milk-Porridge. Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand to he dear, and pour off the latter; pour fresh upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day : strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk, while doing. The proportion of water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for the break- fast of weak persons, abroad. Ground-Rice Milk. Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg Sweeten when nearly done. Sago. To prevent the earthly taste, soak it in cold wra- ter an hour; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with lemon-peel and spice if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together.337 SICK COOKERY. Saco Mitt. Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly, and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will be sufficient foraquart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugaror flavouring. Agues' Milk. Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by being in a basin of hot water. The fixed air that it contains gives some people a pain in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be taken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to be swallowed. Artificial Asses' Mitt. Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new m lk, an ounce of white sugar-eandv, half an ounce oi eringoroot, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted. This is astringent; therefore proportion the doses to the effect, and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. Another.—Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten; sweeten with pounded white sugar-candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a day. Another.—Boil two ounces of hartshorn-shar- ings, two ounces of pearl-barley, two ouuces of candied eringo-root, and one dozeu of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of new-milk, when iaken twice a day. Water Gruel. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 338 \nother way.—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal, with two of water, ami pour it iuto a i pmt of water boiliug on the fire : stir it well, and boil it quick ; but take care it does not boil over, lu a quarter of an hour strain it off; and add salt and a bit of butter wheD eaten. Stir until the but- ter be incorporated. Barley Grad. Wash four ounces of pearl barley; boil it in two , quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduc- , ed to a quart; strain, and return it into the saucepan with sugar, and three quarters of a pint of port wine. Heat up, and use as wanted. A very agreeable Brink. Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table- spoonful ofcapillaire, and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants or cranberries, make excellent drinks;; with a little sugar or not, as may be agreeable. A refreshing Drink in a Fever. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having firsts washed and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white ; slice it, and put a bit ol the peel in; then pour in three pints of boiling, water, sweeten, and cover it close. Another Drink.—Wash extremely well am ounce of pearl-barley; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of sweet almonds- beaten fine, and a bit of lemon-peel; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. Another.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces ol currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till neaiSICK COOKER R. 339 a third be consumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon- peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long. A most pleasant Drink. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cap of water, .'nd mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbon -ugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit; and a quaiter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper : boil all for half an hour, and strain off. Soft and fine Draught for those who are weak and have a Cough. Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it with a quarter of a pint of new-milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the same of rose-water, and a little nut- meg scraped. Do not warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. Toast and Water. Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown aud hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use in weak bowels. It should be of a tine brown colour before drinking it. Barley Water. IVash a handful of common barley then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of le- mon-peel. This is less apt to nauseate thao pearl-barley ; but the other is a very pleasant drink. Another wav.—Boil an ounce of pearl-barley540 domestic cookeby. a few minutes to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water ; simmer an hour; when half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and one bit of sugar. , If likely to be too thick, you may put another. ,i quarter of a pint of water. Lemon-juice may be added, if chosen. Leiwm-ioater, a delightful Drink. Put two slices-;of lemon thinly pared into a tea pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capiilaire; pour in a pint of boil- iug water, and stop it close two hours. Apple Water. Cat two large apples in slices, and pour a quart- of boiling water on them ; or on roasted apples ; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. Raspberry-vinegar Water. (See page 273.) This one of the most delightful drinks that can be made. Whey. That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, es- pecially when the cows are in fresh herbage. White-wine Whey. Put half a pint of new-milk on the fire; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin- wine as will completely turn it, and it looks clear; let it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pfnt of boiling w ater, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. Vinegar and Lemon Wheys. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or le-341 SICK COOKER V. mon-juicc as will make a small quantity quit* clear dilute with tiot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine; and if only to excite per- spiration, answers as well. Buttermilk, with Bread or without. It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely to be heavy ; but most agreeable when made of sweet cream. Dr. Bo«rknave’s sweet Buttermilk. Take the milk from the cow into a small churn, of about six shillings price; in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of but- ter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is dis- charged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks in every way and sort; ripe and dried fruits of various kinds, when a deciiue is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits, or common cake. Orgeat. Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar or capillaire. Thi-- is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and with fbe addition of half an ounce of guir Arabic, has been found to allay the painfulness of the attendant heat. Half a p*las8 of brandy may be added if thought too cool-DOMESTIC COOKERY. 342 ing in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgea may be put into a basin of warm water. Another orgeat for company, is in page 272. Orangeade, or Lemonade. Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a lit. tie of the peel, and cover close. Boil water are sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all ar cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with vc much more water as will make a rich slier bet; strain through a jelly'bag. Or squeeze th , juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. , Egg Wine. Beat an egg, mix it with a spoonful of cold wa- ter ; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by degrees, till th; whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whoh into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it on way for not more than a minute ; for if it boil, o the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast; Egg wine may be made as above, w ithout warm ing the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach though nof so pleasant to the taste- COOKERY FOR THE POOR. General Remarks and Hints. 1 promised a few hints, to enable every famil to assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a ver trivial expense; and these may be varied or ameno ed at the discretion of the mistress. Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk i a valuable present, and a very common one. W hen the oven is hot, a large pudding may t baked, and given to a sick or young family; and tliu made, the trouble is little;—Into a deep coarsCOOKERY FOR THE POOR 313 pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of dripping ; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but be an excellent solid food. A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, which is thus made :—Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling aud near ready; it will attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, will be no unpalitable dish to those who rarely taste meat. A baked Soup. ' Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices; two onions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, ■ a pint of split peas, or whole ones if previously soaked, pepper and salt ,• into au earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling ' of every piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c. however salt; a nd it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of fresh water, and by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the fam- ily, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates and rice, Scotch barley or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutritious soup, two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, &c. boiled till they yield their nourishment. if the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. I Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable th..t is at hand ; cut them small, and throw in with344 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the thick part of peas, after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long bod- ing of the bones, and different vegetables, will afs ford belter nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; especially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But in every family there is some superlluity; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly at an ex- pense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London,' abounding with opulent famil ies, the quantity of ten gallons were made in ten gentlemen’s houses,, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a hair each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead, of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal! To the sick, aged, and infant branches, how important an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother, whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a larger share, frequently reduces that strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends. It very' rarely happens that servauts object to seconding the kindness of their superiors to the poor; but should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at t he end of the winter might repay her, if the love of her fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundredCOOKERY FOR THE PO"R. 345 fold. Did she readily enter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, the peas or grits of which soup or gruel lmd been made ; broken potatoes, the green heads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles which a preparing dinner for the family are thrown aside. Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by tl e part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, v hicii contain a; isinglass. W hen the fish is served let the cook put by some of the water, and stew in it. the above ; as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when it makes u delightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion, some pepper, and a little rice-flour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat-soup, particularly for the sick; and w he ■ such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the liquor of the salt meats. The fat should not he taken off the broth or soup, as the poor like- it, and are nourished by it. An excellent Soup for the Weakly. Put two cow heels and a breast of mutton into a large pan with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaca peppers, and twenty black, a tur- nip, a carrot, and four gallons of w ater ; cover with brown paper, and bake six hours. Sago. Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit of lemon-peel; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and two spoonfuls of Geneva ; boil all up together.domestic cookery. 34f> It is a most supporting thing for those whom dis- ease has left very feeble. Cbudlc for the Sick and Lying-in. “ Set three quarts of water on the fire: mix smooth is much oatmeal as will thicker the whole, with a. ant of cold water; when boiling, pour the latter jn, and twenty .Tamara peppers in line powder; fjoil to a good middling thickness \ then ad i sugar, half a pint of well fermented table-beer, and a gias. of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalculable service. Thei ■ is not a better occasion for charitable commiseration than when a person is sick, nit of meat or pudding sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. Nor are the indigent alone the grateful ceivers ; for in the highest houses a real good sick-cook is i arely met with ; and many who possess all the goods of fortune have attributed the first return ot health to an appetite excited by good kitchen ph ystc, as it is called. PART XIII. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS. To make soft Pomatum. Beat half a pound of nnsalted fresh laid in com- mon water; then soak and heat it in two ro.se- waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonfuls of347 VARIOUS RECItPTS. Urandy: let it drain from this; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Another way.—Soak half a pound of clear i-eet-marrow, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, m water, two or three days, changing and beating it every day. Put it into a sieve ; akd when dry, into a 'ar, and the jar into a saucepan of water *' hca melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of braudy ; drain off the brandv : and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or anv other scent that is liked. J Hard Pomatum. T repare equal quantities of beef-marrow and mutton-suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and adding the scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be ot. WheD cold, break the bottles, dear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. Pomade Divine. f lear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel of water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and morning for ten days; then steep it rose-water twenty-four hours ; and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namely, storax, gum-ben- jamin, odoriferous cy press-powder, or of Florence; half an ounce of cinnamon, two drams of cloves and two drams of nutmeg, all finely powdered r mix them with the marrow above prepared ; then put all the ingredients into a pewter pot, that holds three pints; make a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of nig. Over that must be another piece of linen to co-er the top ofDOMESTIC COOKERY. 348 the pot very close, that Done of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot into a large copper pot, with water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling hot; for it must boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Do not touch it with any thing but silver. It will keep many years. A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of hog’s-lard, on the ingredients; and then observing the same process as above. Pot Pourri. Put into a large china jar the follow ing ingredi- ents in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers: two pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown : violets, orange-flowers, and jas- mine, a handful of each: orris root sliced, benja- min. and storax, two ounces of each ; a quarter of an ounce of musk; a quarter of a pound of angel- ica-root sliced ; a quart of the red parts of clove- gilly flowers; two handfuls of lavender flowers ; half a handful of rosemary-flowers ; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each; three Seville or- anges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded; half a handful of knotted marjoram; and two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered tie perfume is very fine. A quicker sort of Sweet Pot. Take three Inndtuls of orange-flowers, three of clove-gilly flowers, three damask roses, one of knotied marjoram, one of lemon-thymt, six bay-.140 VARIOUS RECEIPTS leaves a handful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of lavender, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop all; and put them in layers, with pounded bay salt be- tween, up to the top of the jar If all th ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them ; always throwing in salt with every new article. To make Wash-balls. Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water; then pour as much boiling water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet oil, four penny-worth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved, then add the soap, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to powder by rubbing it in a mortar witti a few drops of spirit of wine, or lavender-water, or any other scent. Boil ten minutes ; then pour it into a basin, and stir till it is quite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may not fly off. Paste for chapped Hands, and which icill pre- serve them smooth by constant use. Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog’s lard, which has been washed in common and then rose- water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oat- meal, or almond-paste, as will work into a paste. For chapped lAps, Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, storax, e id spermaceti, two penny-worth of alkanet root, a large juicey apple chopped, a bunch of blackDOMESTIC COOKERY, ioO grapes bruised, a quarter of a pound of umsalted butter, and two ounces of beeswax, into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax, &c. are dissolved, and then strain it through a linen. When cold melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or if to wake cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. Hungary Water. To one pint of highly rectified spirit of wine, put an ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drams of es- sence of ambergris : shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. Honey Water. Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drams of essence of ambergris ; shake them will daily. Lavender Water. Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of lavender one ounce, essence of ambergris two drams; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. An excellent Water to prevent Hair from falling off, and to thicken it, ' Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still, -with twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. Black Paper for drawing Patterns. l\lix and smooth lamp-black and sweet oil, with a tut of flannel, cover a sheet or two of lan e wii- tmg paper with this mixture ; then dab the paperVARIOUS nrOEIPTS. 351 dry with aliitof fine lines, and keep it by for using in the following manner: Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel pen- cil : the black paper will then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you must now draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth or muslin, do it with a peu dipped in a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixed month in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use; if fresh, wet to a due consistence as wanted. Black Ink. Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three quarters of a pound of blue galls bruised ; infuse hem three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four mnces of green copperas, four ounces of logwood- hips, 9ix ounces of gumarabec,and a wine-glass- ful of brandy. Another wav.—The iuk powder sold in Shoe- ane is one of the best preparations in this useful irticle. Directions are given with it how to mix d ; in addition to which, a large cup of sweet wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness >f the japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it costs only eighteen pence, and that quantity will last a long time. To cement, broken China. Beat 1 me into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin: then tie some into a thin muslin ; put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg. then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly.352 domestic cookf.ky An excellent Stucco, which mil arfu re to Wood- work. Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yel.ow oker, arid a quarter of a pound of brown umbor, all ih'fiue powder. Mix them with a suffi- cien' quantity ot hot fbut not boiling) water, to a proper thickness: and lay it on with a white-wash- er’s brush, which should be new. If the wall be quite smooth one or two coats will do ; but each must be dry before the next is put on. The month of March is the best season for doing this. Mason’s Washes for Stucco. Blue.--To four pounds of blue vitriol. and a pound of the best w hiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time, limn pour it into an earthen pau! aad set it by for a day or two till the colour is set- - .ed. Pour oif the water, and mix the colour with whitewashed size. Wash the walls three or four times, according as is necessary. i el low,—Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quantities separately of umber, bright oker, ana blue black. Ihen put it into as much white- wash as you think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. If either cast, pre- dominates, add more of the others, till you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixin"- the lime and size, with skimmed milk instead of water. Roman Cement or Mortar, for outside plastering _ or brick-work. klm will resist ail weather; and may be used to plnetmteit1 ^ t0 l‘Ue rasei'vohs> as no water can Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelveVARIOUS RECEIPTS. 353 pounds of ur daked lime, and lour pounds^of the )M,..resi cheese grated through an iron grater. When well mixed, add enough hot (butnot boiling) water to make into a proper consistence for plastering, ‘ 1 . ;i quantity of the above as is wanted. It requires ven good and quick working. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it is tube l;rd on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being left uncovered. The wall or lath-work should he covered first with hair-and-lime mortar and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does Uetter than any other of this country. To take Stains of any kind out of Linen. Stains caused uv \cins.—Wet the part, and lay on it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it. with- out dilluting it with more water. Another.—-Let the cloth imbihe a little water wir'iout dipping, and hold the part over a lighted mati h at a due distance. The spots will be remo- ved by the sulphureous gas. Another wav.—Tie upin the stained part some pearlash; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen till the stain disappears. Stains of XVine, Fruit Jyc. after they hats he n long in the Li ten. Hub the part on eachside with yellow soap. Then la v on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it well in, and expose the linen to (he sun and’ air till the stain comesout. If not removed in three or four days, rub that off, and renew the process. When dry, it may be sprinkied with a little water. Many other stains may be taken out by dipping tin linen in sour buttermilk, and drying it in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times a day.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 354 Iron-moulds should be wetted, then laid on a hot water-plate, and a little essential salt of lent o: 3 put ou the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it, and renew the process; observing that the plate is kept boiling hot Much of the powder sold under :he name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation; md therefore it is necessary to dip the ! iuen in a good deal, of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. To t a k e ou t M i l d e w.—Mix soft soap w ith starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a emon; lay it on the part on both sides with a painter's brush. Let it lie on tire grass day awl night till the t tain comes out. To make Flannels keep their colour, and not shrink. Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. To preserve Furs and Woollen from Moths. Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not wanted, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary's in small muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp, To dye the Linings of Furniture, S;c. Buff or Salmon-colour, according to the depth of the hue.—Rub downon a pewter-plate two-pennyworth of Spanish arnatto, and then boil it in a pail of water a quarter of an hour. Putinto it two ounces of pot-ash, stir it round, and instantly putin the iinmg; stir it about all the time it is boiling which must be five or six minutes .; then put it into -. old pump water, and hang the articles up singly355 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. Without wringing. V hen almost dry, fold and mangle it. 1’i.VK.—The calico mast he washed extremely clean and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, ai.d four ounces of alum ; take it out. and dry in the air. fu the mean time boil in the alum water two handful.- .if wheat-bran till quite slipper)', and then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and twoonnces of argali finely pounded and sifted; mix with it the liquor by little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico ; and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out thecalico, and wash it in chain berlye first, and in cold water after; then rinse in water-strar. h stained, and dry it quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. Blue.—Let thecalico be washed clean anddried, theu mix some of Scot liquid blue inasmuch wa- ter as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit to see whether the colour is deep enough ; then set the linen, c. in it, and wash it; then dry the articles singly, and mangle or cullender them. To dye Gloves to look like York tan or Limerick, according to the deepness of the Dye. Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling- hot, and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the leather over with a brash. The tops should be sewn close, to prevent the colour from getting iu. To dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. Boil four ounces of logwood, and two ounces of roche alum, in three pmts of soft wafer (ill half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended : then wi'h a brush do over them, and when dry repeat it. Twice is356 DOMESTIC COOK Eli V. sufficient, unless the colour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off’the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Peat, up the white of an egg, and rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, bui wetting them with vinegar will take it off before they are washed. A liquor to wash old Deed?. Sc. oil Paper or Parchment, when the writing is obliterated, or when sunk, to make it legible. Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them into a pint of strong white wine ; let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brush into the vine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk; and by the colour you will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. To prevent the Rot in Sheep. Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass To prevent green Hag from firing. Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible; tie the month with a cord ; and make the rick round the sack, drawing it np as the rick advances in height, arid quite out when finished. Tne funnel thus left in the centre preserves it. To preserve Granary from Insects and Weasels. Make the floor of Lombardy poplars. To destroy Crickets. Put Scotch snuff upon the holes where they come out. DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. Jo clean Calico Furniture tchen taken down for the Summer. Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture-brush ; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread.DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 35 7 If properly done, the curtains will look, nearly as well as at first; and if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up, it should be preserved from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours; and the dust may be blown off with bellows. By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even to use with the linings newly dipped. To clean Plate. Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn-powder in a quart of water; while on the lire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold ; let it hod a little, then take it out, drain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same till you have done. I hen put into the water some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. Wheu dry they will serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things to clean the brass locks and finger-plates of doors. When the plate isquite dry, it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In man y plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very iujurious; and, among other disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. To clean Looking-glasses. Remove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp vag; then polish with woollen cloth and powder To preserve Gilding, and clean it. It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding withoutco erin it; before which, blow off the light dust, and pas- a feather or clean brush over it; then with strips of paper cover the trames ofDOM ESTXC COOK E R Y. 358 your glasses, and do not remove till the flies are gone. Liueu takes oil' the gilding, and deadens its brightness; it should therefore never be used lor wiping it. Some means should be used to destroy the flies,. as they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper likewise. Bottles hung about with sugar and vin- egar, or beer, will attract them; or fly-water, put into little shells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. To clean Paint. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, aft nr blowing oil'the loose parts with the bellows, AVith care, paint will look well for a length of time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry immediately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour. When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda bo pre- dated from runniag on the unclean part us much as possible, or marks will be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen, as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. To clean Paper Hangings. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crust into your hand, anil begin at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest man- ner with the cram. Do not cross, nor go upwards. The dirt of the crams and the paper will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above half a j aril at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you do not do it extremely lightly, yon will35» direction* to SERVANTS. make the dirt adhere to the paper.—It wiK look like new if properiy done. To give a Gloss to fine Oak-wainscot. If greasy, ii must be washed with warm beer ; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees- wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugai : wet it all over with a large brush, aud when dry ruo it till bright. * To give a fine Colour to Mahogany. m the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, ’ aving first taken out any ink stains there may be with spirit of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed off. Use the follow m„ liquid :—Into a pint of cold-drawn linseed-oil, put four pennyworth of alkauetroot, and two-penny- worth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel; let it remain all night; then stirring well, rub some ofit all over the tables with a linen rag; when it has lain some time, rub itbrightwith linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil- cloth, or haizy, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. To take Ink out of Mahogany. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part w ith a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a while mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. Floor-cloths Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, thatis, w 11 covered with the colour, and the flowers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. The durability of the cloth will depend much on these two particular . butDOMESTIC COOKE RT. 3G0 more especially on the time it has been painted . and the goodness of the colours. If they have no been allowed sufficient space for becoming 1 ho roughly hardened, a very little use will injure them ana as they are very expensive articles, care it preserving them is necessary. It answers to keey them sometime before they are used, either him? rip in a dry barn where they will have air, or laic don n in a spare room. v’ !len taken up for the winter, they should bt rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly Old carpets answer extremely well, painted am seasoned some months before laid down. If foi passages, Ihe width must be directed when they are sent to the manufactory, as they are cut before painting. To clean Floor-cloths. Sweep, then wipe them with a tiannel; and whei all Oust and spots are removed, rub with a waxer tlannel, and then with a dry plain one ; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give t little smoothness, or it may endanger falling. V, ashing now' and then with milk after the above sweeping and dry-rubbing them, gives as beaut;hi a took, and they are less slippery. To dust Carpets and Floors. . •' • Sprinkle tea-leaveson them then sweep carefully t he former should not be swept frequently vvitl a whisk brush, as it wears them fast ; only once i week, and the other times with the leaves uud i nair-brnsh. I me carpets should be gently done with a Lai hand-brush, such as for clothes, or. the knees. To clean Carpets. Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, the: la.d (.own, and brush on both sides with a hand361 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. brush; turn it the right side upwards, aud scour it w ith ox-gall aud soap aud water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass or bang it up to dry. i To tjioe to Boards a beautiful appearance. After washing them very nicely clean with soda and warm water, and a brush, wash them with a very large sponge and clean water. Both times observe to leave no spot untouched; and clean straight up and down, not rubbiug from board to board; then dry with clean cloths, rubbing hard up and down in the same way. The floors should not be often wetted, but very thoroughly when done; and once a week dry-rubbed with hot sand, and a heavy brush, the right way of tlie boards. The sides of stairs or passages on which are car- pets, of floor-cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not )e soiled. Different sponges should be kept for the two above uses ; and those and the brushes should he well washed when done with, and kept in drv places. To extract Oil from Boards or Stone. Make a strong lye of pearl-ashes and soft wafer, and add as much unslaked lime as it will take up , stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes, bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should He long on the boards, it will draw du; the colour ofthem ; therefore do it with car e and expedition. To clean, stone Stairs and Halls. Boil a pound of pipe-maker’s clay with a quart of water, a quart of small-beer, and put in a bit of stone blue. Wash with this mixture, and when dry, rub the stones with flannel and a brush. 25DOMESTIC COOKERY. 302 To hlaclcn the fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces. Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean; then sponge it with clear water; and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry between the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp-bJack must be sifted first. To take Stairs out of Marble. Mix unslaked lime, in finest powder, with the stronger soap-lye, pretty thick ; and instantly, w itk a painter’s brush, lay it on the marble. In two month’s time wash it off pretty clean; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear oft the. soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. To tal e Iron Stains out of Marble. An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft lin *n till they disappear. To preserve Irons from rust. Melt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust it well with unslaked lime pounded, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so pre- pared will keep many mouths. Vse no oil for them at an, time, except salad oil; there being water in all other. Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place when not used. Another way.—Beat into three pounds of un- salted hog’s lard,two drams of carnpho sliced ti.iu till it is dissolved, then take as much black-leadDIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 303 as will make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the store, &c. and the steel will never rust even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. To take Rust out of Steel. rover the steel w'lth sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in forty-eight hours use unslaked lime finely powdered, to rub until all the rust disappears. To clean the back of the Grate, the inner Hearth and the fronts of Cast-Iron Stove Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lend, with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust: then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. Another any to clean Cast-Iroi, un ■< Black Hearths.',\ Mix black-lpe and whites o eggs v-fll n»h<# a together: dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over: then rub it bright with a hard brush. To tal e the Black off the britjht Bars of polished Stores in a few minutes. Rub them well with some of the following mix- ture on a bit of broad-cloth ; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not saud-paper. The mixture.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonfuls, and mix to a consis- tence with emery, No. 3. To dean tin Covers, and Patent pewter Porter pots. Vet the finest whiting, which is only sold in36-1 DOMESTIC COOKERY. large cakes, the small being mixed with sand ; mix a little of it powdered, with tiie least drop of s wee oil, and rub well, and wipe clean, then dust som dry whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by the fire when they come fro i the parlour : for if but once hung up without, the. steam will rust the inside. To'prevent the creaking of a door. Rub a bit of soap on the hinges. A strong Paste for Paper. To two large spoonfuls of fine flour, pul as nnio ■ pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling: mix with as much strong beer as will make it of a due con- sistence, and boil half an hour. Let it be cold .. . it be used. Fine Blad ing for Shoes. Take four ounces of ivory black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table-spoonful of sweet oil, aud a pint of small beer; mix them gradually cold. BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, &c. BILLS OF FARE, &C. List, of various articles in sea v in different months. JANUARY. Poultry.—Game. Pheasants. Partridges, Hares. Rabbits. Woodcocks. Snipes. Turkeys Capons. Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Tame Pi- geons. Fish.—Carp. Tench. Perch. Lampreys. Eels. Crayfish. Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbot.365 BILLS OF FARE. Thornback. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters. Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. Vegetables.—Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Sprouts. Broccoli. Leeks. Onions. Beet. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. Spinach. Celery. Garlick. Scorzonera, otatoes. Parsueps. Turnips. Broc- coli, white and purple. Shallots. Lettuces. Cres- ses. Mustard. Rape. Salsafy. Herbs of all sorts, dry, and sc me green. Cucumbers. Asparagus, and Mushrooms, to be had, though not in season. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Nuts. Walnuts. Med- lars. Grapes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH. Meat, Fow ls, and Game, as in January, with the addition of ducklings and chickens; which last are to be bought in London, most, if not all, the year, but very dear. Fish.—A s the last two months ; exceptthat Cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought. Vegetables.—The same as the former months, with tjie addition of Kidney-Beans. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. 8ECOND QUARTER.—ACRIL, MAY, AND JUNE. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison in June. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Duck- lings. Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets. Fish.—Carp. Tench. Soles. Smelts. Eels. Trout. Turbot. Lobsters. Chub. Salmon. Her- rings. Crayfish. Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. Vegetables.—As before; and in May, early Potatoes. Peas. Radishes. Kidney-Beans. Car- rots. Turnips. Early Cabbages. Cauliflowers. Asparagus. Artichokes. A11 sorts of Salads forced.DOMESTIC COOKERY. see Fruit.—In June ; Strawberries. Cherrie Me- lons. Green Apricots Currants and Gooseberries for Tarts. In July; Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Gooseberries. Currants. Apricots. Grapes. Nectarines; and some Peaches.—But most of these are forced. THIRD QUARTER.—JULY, AUGUST, AND3EPTEM1IER. Meat as before. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey Poults. Two former mouths. Plovers. Wheatears. Geese in September. Fish.—Cod. Haddock. Flounders. Plaice. Skate. Tliornback. Mullets. Pike. Carp. F.els. Shellfish-; except Oyst ers. Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August. Partridge-shooting begins the 1st of September; whatis therefore usm before, is poached. Vegetables.—Ofallsorts, Beans. Peas. French Beans, &c. &c. Fruit.—In July; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine-Apples. Plums, various. Cherries. Apricots. Raspberries. Melons. Currants. Damsons. In August and September, Peaches. Plums. Figs. Filberts. Mulberries. Cherries. Apples. Pears. Nectarines. Grapes. Latter months,Pines. Melons, Strawberries. Medlars and Quinces in the latter month. Morelia Cherries. Damsons; and larious Plums. OCTOBER. Meat as before, and Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls as in former quarter. Pheasants, from the 1st of October. V: rtridges. Larks. Hares. Dotterels.—The end oftiie month, Wild-ducks. Teal. Snipes. Wid- geon. Grouse.bills of fare. 267 Fish.—Dories. Smelts. Pike. Perch. Holibets. Brills. Carp, Salmon-trout. Barbel. Gudgeons. Tench. Shell-fish. Vegetables.—As in January, French Beans, last crops of Beans, &c. Fruit.—Peaches. Pears. Figs. BuDace. Grapes. Apples. Medlars. Damsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nuts. Quinces. Services,. Medlars. NOVEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House- Lamb. Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game as the last mouth. Fish as the last month. Vegetables.—Carrots. Turnips. Parsneps. Potatoes. Skirrets. Scorzonera. Onions. Leeks. Shallots. Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Spinach. Chard-Beets. Chardoons. Cresses. Endive. Cel- ery. Lettuces. Salad. Herbs. Pot-berbs. Fruit.—Pears. Apples. Nuts. Walnuts. Bul- lace. Chesnuts. Medlars. Grapes. DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. House Lamb. Pork and Venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese. Turkeys. Pul- lets. Pigeons. Capons. Fowls, Chickens, Babbits. Hares. Snipes. Woodcocks. Larks. Pheasants. Partridges. Sea-fowls. Guinea-fowls. Wild-ducks, Teal. Widgeon. Dotterels. Dun-birds. Grouse. Fish.—Cod. Turbot. Holibets. Soles. Gurnets. Sturgeon. Carp. Gudgeons. Codlings. Eels. Do- rics. Shell-fisb. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Asparagus forced, &c. Fruit as the last, except Buliace.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 368 FAMILY DINNERS. FIVE DISHES. Knuckle of Veal stewed with Rice. Apple Sauce. Bread and Butter Pudding. Loin of Pork roasted. Potatoes Peas-Soup. (Remove—boiled Ford.) Oyster Sauce. Potatoes. Apple-pie. Roasted Beef. Benton Sauce. Broccoli. Pig Souse fried in batter. ( Remove for Yorkshire Pudding.) Potatoes. Peas-Soup. Salad. Roast Veal. Hessian Ragout. Stewed Beet Hessian Soup and Onions. of the above. Leg of Lamb roasted. Potatoes. Beef Podovies. ( Remove—Curd Puddings.) Mashed Potatoes Mutton Broth, Carrots, (trilled. and Turnips. Neck of Mutton. Broiled Haddocks stuffed. Potatoes. Light Suet. Carrots. Dumplings. md Turnips. Round of Beef. Crimp Cod.soy FAMILY DISHES. Salad. Gooseberry. Jerusalem Pudding. Artichokes Leg of Mutton. Spitchcock Eels. {Remove—Chine of Lamb in Cresses.) Potatoes. Damson Pudding. Stewed Cold Beef. Carrots. Scrag of Veal smothered with Onions. (Remove—a Fruit Pie.) Mashed Potatoes trimmed with Peas Soup. Brocoli. small slices of Bacou. Hashed Hare. Half Calf’s Head, grilled (Remove—Pie or Pudding.) Tongue Carrot Soup. Bacon, and Brains. Saddle of Mutton. Greens round. Potatoes and Salad, at side-table. Boiled Neck of Mutton. Young Baked Turnips. Greens. Plum Pudding. Currie of dressed Meat in Casserole of Pice. Edgebone of Beef. Carrots^ V egetable Soup. Greens. Pulled Turkey or Fowl, Leg Broiled. Boiled Fowls. ( Remove.—Snoio-balls.) Potatoes. Patties of Greens and dressed Meat, mashed Turnips.DOMESTIC COOK I KY. 370 Chine of Paeon Pork, boiled. SEVEN DISHES. Salmon and Fried Smelts. Marcaroni Stewed Celery. Pudding. Giblet Soup. Potatoes. Veal Patties. Roast Beef. Leg of Pork boiled. Peas Pudding Bread Sauce. Onion Soup. Turnips Plum-pud ding, and Potatoes. baked. Large Fowl, dressed as Turkey. Minced Veal, garnished with fried crumbs. Small Meat Hot Apple Pie, Potatoes Pie. in change for Soup, in a Form. Stewed Onions. Beaus and Bacon. Saddle of Mutton. FOUR AND FIVE. (FIRST COURSE.) Soup. Carrots. Mashed Turnips Bouillie. (second course.) Fricassee of Sweetbreads. Mushrooms Lemon Peas, stewed Pudding. (first course.) Mackerel broiled, with Herbs. Bacon. Butter. Greens and Carrots.FAMILY DINNERS. 371 Boiled Chickens. (sbcond eoimsR.) Beef Cecils. Salad. Fruit Pie. Potatoes, in a shape. Fore-quarter of Lamb roasted. SEVEN AND SEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Broiled Salmon. (Rmove-*-Chine of Pork. Stewed ' Mince Spinach. Pies. Pea3 Soup. Oxford Peas Dumplings Pudding. Fillet of Veal. ( Potatoes and mashed Turnips, on side-table.) (second coursb.) Ragout of Palates. Orange Fool. Fotted Beef. Curd Star, and whip. Collared Eel. Stewed Pears. Pheasant. (Bread-sauce on side-table.) (first course.) Cod's Head and Shoulders. (Remove—Boiled Turkey.) Currie ‘ Patties, of Rabbit. Giblet Soup. F.el Pie. Small Leg of Pork. Boiled Neck of Mutton, 7 Bones.domestic cookery. 372 Four small dishes of Vegetables mag he put round the Soup, or two served at the side-table. (second course.) Fricandeau. Orange Pudding. Scraped Beef. Lemon Creams. Anchovy Toast. Teal, or other wild Fowls. Tarts. SEVEN AND NINE. (fIRST COURSE.) Pepperpot. Broccoli. Tongue, braised. Hunter’s Pudding. Chickens Celery, boiled. dished in a Pyramid. Saddte of Mutton. 1 Greens and Potatoes on the side table. (SECOND COURSE.) Roasted Partridges. Almond let^ Cheesecakes. * heese. Celery in Raspberry Chardoous White Sauce. Cream. stewed. Collared Beef. Hare. Lemon Pudding. NINE AND SEVEN. (FIRST COURSR.) Slewed Carp. Chickens. Parsley Butter. Butter. Cod-sounds, Epergne. B bite Currant Gravy. Jelly. Stewed Cheek of Bacon. Rabbits and Onions. Cutlets373 FAMILY DINNERS. Maintenon. Pigeons. Green Peas Soup. (Remove— flaunch of Venison.) Vegetables on side-table. (SECOND (’OCRSR ) Sweetbreads. Mushrooms Sauce Robart. stewed. Trifle. Currant Tart Bread Sauce, with Custard. Roasted Partridges. Pdamange in Small forms. Stewed Cucumbers. NINE AND ELEVEN ) AND A REMOVE. (FIRST course.) Turbot. Palates. French Pie. Veal Olives. ( Remove—Chickens.) Liver and Lemon Sauce. Lamb’s Fry. Tongue Carrot Soup. in Turnips. Rabbit brown Butter. in Fricassee. Edge-boee of Beef. Vegetables on side-table. Stewed Pippins. Scalloped Oysters. Cray fish in Jelly. (SECOND COURSE.) Wild Fowl. French Beans. Solid Syllabub in a glass dish. Peas. Goose. Lobster in Fricassee Sauce. Stewed Mushrooms. Apricot Tart, open cover. NINE DISHES, TWO REMOVES, AND ELEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Fish.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 374 (Remove—Stewed Beef.) Oxford Dumplings. Fricandeau. Small Ham. White soup. Turkey boiled, Lamb Steaks Oyster Sauce, round Potatoes. Lobster Patties. Fish. (Remove—Saddle of Mutton.) (second course.) Sweetbreads larded. Frencli Beans, Orange Jelly, in White Sauce. Open Tart. Raspberry Cream. Lobster. Form. Green Goose. Prawns. Sago Pndding. Stewed Mushrooms. (FIRST cocrsb.) Fish. (Remove—Hashed Calfs Head.) Rabbit and Onious. Sauce. Lamb’s Fry. Macaroni Transparent lteef-Stcak Pudding. Soup. Pie. Veal Butter. Stewed Pigeons, Cutlets. with Cabbage. Fish. (Remove—Sirloin of Beef.) (second course.) Chickens, Stewed Lobster. Raspberry Cream Trifle. Asparagus. Lemon Cream. Apricot open Tart. Ducklings. Cheesecakes. Peas. Macaroni.FAMILY DINNERS. 375 ELEVEN AND NINE. (FIRST course.) Fish. CRemove—Ham glazed.) Pigeons Sauce. Sweetbread stewed. grilled- Gravy Soup. Tongue. Leef-steak Pie. Butter. Boiled Mutton. Boiled Chickens. Fillet of Veal. (second course.) Pheasant. Raspberry Tartlets. Bread-sauce. Artichokes. Collared Eel. Plateau. Collared Beef. Stewed G'ravy and Jelly Stewed Celery. for Hare. Pears. Hare. ELEVEN AND ELEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Stewed Beef. Oxford Puddings. White Soup. Veal Fricandeau. .Ham Turkey braised. Oyster Sauce. Lamb Steaks. Fish. Lobster Potatoes. Saddle of Mutton. Patties. French Beans. White Sauce. Open Tartlet Anchovy. Toasts. (second courss.) Sweetbreads. Orange Jelly. Whipped Cream. Wine Roll. Prawns. Muffin Pudding. Stewed Mushrooms. Green Goose,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 37G ELEVEN AND ELEVEN, AND TWO REMOVES. (FIRST COURSE.) Salmon. (Itmove—Brisket of Beef stewed^ and high Sauce.) Cauliflower. Shrimp Sauce. Giblet Soup. Fry- Stewed Cucumbers. Cutlets Maiutenou Potatoes. Anchovy Sauce. Pigeon Pie. Stewed Peas and Lettuce. Veal Olives braised. Soles fried. (Remove—Quarter of Lamb roasted.) (SECOND COURSE.) Young Peas. Ramukius. Lobster. Trifle. Orange Tourt. Grated Beef. Roughed Jelly: Ducks. I.ONQ TABLE ONCE COVERED. Fish. One Turkey or BJamauge. Two Poults. Mock Turtle Soup. Sweetbreads, larded. Mash Turnips, Jerusalem Artichokes Stewed Carrots thick fricasseed. Spinach, round. Cray. Savoy Cake. Dried Salmon Fish. in papers. Macaroni Pudding. Ham braized. Trifle. Coffee Cream. Raspberry Tart. Omlet. Fruit Tart. Harrico. Chickens.FAMILY DINNERS. 377 French Pie. Casserole of Rice Picked Crab, with Giblets. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale. Young Sprouts Apple Fie and Custard. Fricandeau. Ox Rumps, and Spanish Onions. Rich White Soup. Jelly Form. Cheesecakes. Fish. (Remove—Venison, or L<An of Veal.)378 GENERAL REMARKS. ON dinners. Things tjsf.d at first Courses.—Various Soups* Fish dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock 1 urtle. Boiled Meats aud stewed. Tonrue. Ham. Bacon. Ciiawls of Bacon, Turkey and Fowls, chiefly boiled. Rump, Sirloin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other roast Mutton. Roast b diet, Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder, .of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Loin. Fore-quarter. Chine. Lamb s-hcad and Mince. Mutton stuffed and roasted. Steaks, variously prepared. llagouts and Fricassees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fish and Fowl. Stewed Pigeons. Venison. Leg. of Pork, Chine, Loin, Sparerib. Rabbits. Mar.. Puddings, boiled and baked. Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calf’s Head different ways. Pig’s Feet and Ears different ways. In large Dinners, two Soups and two dishes of Fish. Things for sf.cond Courses.—Birds: and Game of all sorts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and potted Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. Vegetables, stewed or in sauce. French Beans. IV is. Aspar- agus. Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled Oysters. Spinach, and Artichoke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Gale. Fruit Tarts. Preserved-Fruit Tarts. Pippins stewed. Cheesecakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given from page 216 to 244, with directions for preparing them; such as Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince Pies, etc. Omlet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, dr pickled. Having thus named the sorts of things used for the two courses, the reader will think of manyGENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS, &C. 379 others. For removes of Soup and Fish, one ortwo joints of Meat or Fowl are served; and for ono small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part. "Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c. are twice dressed, they add to the appearance of the table the first time; three sweet things may form the second appearance without greater expense. The Bills of 1 are which have been given from page 361 to 377 may be modified at discretion. In some houses, one dish at a time is sent up withthe vegetables, or sauces proper to it, and this in succession hot and hot. In others, a course of Soups and Fish ; then Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkey, &c. Made Dishes and Game follow ; and lastly, Sweet Dishes: but these are not the com- mon modes. It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do not thiuk of sending up such articles as are in the house, uuless ordered ; though, by so doing, the addition of a collared or pickled thing, some Fritters, fried Patties, or quick-made Dumplings, would be useful when there happen to be acciden- tal visitors : and at all times it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than let things spoil below, by w hich the expense of a family is more increased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables are put on the side table at large dinners, as like- wise sauces, and servants bring them round: but some inconveniences attend this plan; and. when there are not many to wait, delay is occasioned, besides that by awkwardness the clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the table is of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. SUPPERS. Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine very late. When required, the top and bottom,sso DOMESTIC cookery. or <*b«r, r, ‘«e®e°d odr 1^SUf French Beu? Cauhtlower, or, Jem- scalloped. French »eans Broccou with salcm Artichokes, in white sauce “ ) d stewed Spinach and ditto, weerorewu. its ssssst. tmd, *ith Anchovies on- GjWod ^avsss‘ftri «*'Ka Birds Cheese, &c. Good plain Cake sliced, lies fn ,i nr Kniit Crabs. Lobsters. Prawns. Crav-Qsh. Anv of the list of sweet things. Fruits. A Sandwich set with any of the above arjdes» placed a little distance from each other, on the U- b e looks well: without the tray, if preferred. The lighter the things, the better they appear, and glass intermixed has the best effect. Jellies, different coloured things, and flowers, add to the beauty of the table. An elegant supper may be served at. a small expense by those who know how to make trifles that arc in the. bouse form he greatest part of the meal. 8 Note.—Any of the following things may be served as a relish, with the cheese, after dinner. Baked or pickled Fish done high. Dutch pickled Herring. Sardiuias, which eat like Anchovy, but are larger. Anchovies. Potted Chfir. Ditto Lam- preys. Potted Birds made high. Caviare and tip- pets of Toast. Salad. Radishes French Pie. Cold Butter. Potted Cheese. Anchovy loast,*.c. Before serving a Dutch Herring, it is usual to cut to the. bones without dividing, at the distance of two inches, from head to tail, before scoeuINDEX. A. Acrns, stains caused by, in linen, various ways of ta- king out, 353 Adulterations in the making of bread, bow to detect, 290 Ale. very fine Welsh, to brew 293 , or strong beer, to brew, 294 , to Tefine, 296 Almond puddings, 162 Apple pie, 1S5 hot, 186 • pudding, 164 - puffs, 192 -sauce for goose and roast pork, 138 , to scald codlins, 231 , to keep codlins for several months, 268 , stewed golden pip- pins, 235 , red apples in j»lly,258 -, baked, 162 Apricots in brandy, 219’ small, 163 •— custard, 197 cheesecakes, 198 • , two other ways, 199 cream, 228 Amber pudding, a very fine one, 161 Amerxan dour, management of, m making bread, 289 Anchovies, to choose, 145 - -, to keep them when , to dry in half, 250 , a beautiful preserve of apricots, 243 , to keep green, 249 to preserve in jelly. 219 apple- jelly for this purpose, 257 cheese, 250 pudding, an excel- the liquor dries. 146 sauce, 141 toast, 244 another way,244 , essence of, 146 -, to make sprats taste: like anchovies, Ilfi lent one, 175 Arrow-root ielly for the sick, I 330 I Artichokes, to dress, 201 bottoms, 20 l Jerusalem, 202 bottoms, to keep i for the winter, 211 Apple-water, for the sick,340! Articles in season in the tlif- Apples, dried, 258 ■ dumplings, or pud- ding, 179 trifle, 224 fool, 225 Apple marmalade, 25' ielly to serve to table, 2-"l another, 234 —-— and rice souffle of, 216 orgooseberry trifle,224 -jelly for preserving ap ferent months, list of them 364 to 367 Asses’ milk, 337 — , artificial, three ways of making, 337 B. ricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 257 Bacon, to choose, 28 , excellent, 61 , the manner of curing Wiltshire bacon 81, Bamboo, English, 2133S2 IN 1> KX. Barberries, to prepare for tartlets, 218 , to keep them in bunches, 248 lrops. 264 Barley water, 339; another way, 339 gruel, 338 Batter pudding, 169 with moat .169 Bean (green) pudding, 175 Beans, to dress, 204 , fricasseed Windsor, 204 , French, 204 to preserve them for the winter, 210 Bechamel, or white sauce,133 Beef, to choose, 27 , to keep. 36 ■ , to salt for eatifig imnio- diately, 35 —, to sahred, which is ex treraely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hane to dry, 37 , the dutch way to salt, 38 , a-la-mode, 38 , a fricandcsu of, 39 , stewed rump of, 39 ■■■■ , another way, 40 , rump roasted. 40 , stewed brisket, 41 —, pressed beef, 4i , hunter's beef, 41 , an excellent mode of drtsslng, 42 .coll-ired, 42 , steaks; to dress, 42 , and oyster-sauce, 43 , Staffordshire, 43 , Italian, 43 collop, 44 Beef, potted, two ways, 44 —, to dress the inside of a cold sirloin, 45 Beef, fricassee of cold roast beef, 45 —,to dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called beef-olives, 46 , to dress the same, called sanders, 46 , to dress the same called ceciis, 48 —. minced, 46 , hashed, 47 —, a-H-vingrett**, —, round of beef, , rolled, that equals hare, 48 heart, 50 steak pie, 153 — pudding, 172 baked.172 . 47 47 , a pickle for beef that will keep for years, 80 pasty, to eat as well as venison, 194 patties or podovies. 191 broth for tile sick, 327 tea, 329 Beer, [strong] to brew, 291 (table), excellent, 295 , to refine, 296 Beet-root, different ways of using, 209 to preserve to eat in the winter. 210 Benton-sauce, for hot or co'd roast beef, 137 tea-cakes, 284; atio- — palates. 44 — cakes for side-dish dressed meat, 44 of ther sort as biscuits, 234, another sort 234 B this of F.vnv:. &c. 364 to 367 Birds, a very economic al way of potting, 103 Biscuit, orange, 353 cake, ;84 of fruit. 262 , hard, 2933SS INDEX. Biscuit, plain, and verv crisp 393 Black-caps. two ways of ma- king, 235 pudding, 76 . two other ways, 76 and 77 B1 eking for shoes, fine, 364 B.'anchir.ga rabbit. fow!. &c explained, 113 Blanc-mange, or Blamangc. 883 Boards, to give them a beau- tiful appearance, 361 , to extract oil from 366 Backings, 182 Boerhanve’»(Dr.) sweet but- termilk for the sick, 341 Boiling meat observations on £9 Braising explained, 98 chick, us braised 101 Brandy pudding. 176 cream, 226 -.apricotsor peaches Bread pudding, boiled, 167 another ami richer, 167 , puddings little, 166 andhu'.terpndding,163 •, brown-bread pudding in brandy, 210 -cherries in brandy, raspberry brandy. 256 304 Brawn, to choose, 28 , souse for 76 , mock. 75 Bread, to make. 288 , ltev. Mr. Hogget’s economical bread,289 • management of Amer- 167 , brown-bread ice, 238 Brentford rolls, 291 BRKWgnr (homs), 293 to 306 Broccoli, to dress, 203 Broth, Scotch mutton, 115 , veal, 115 . a quick-made broth forthe sick, 337 Broth, a clear one that will keep long, 327 , n very supporting cue again;' any kind of weak- ness, 127 of beef, mutton, and veal 328 Other broths are under differ- ent names, as Chicken broth. Sic. Brown-bread pudding, 167 - ice. 338 Browning to colour and fla- vour made dishes, 149 Bubble and squeak, 52 Bun, a good pi :n one, 285 , richer oues, 285 Burnt cream, twu ways. 226 Butter, to clarify for potted things, 108 to melt, 141 to serve as a little iean flour, 289 ■ rice and wheat bread, 290 . French bread, 290 , to discover whether bread has been adulterated with whiting or chalk, 290 , to detect bones’jalap, ashes, & c. in bread, 290 Bread cake, common, 281 dish, 243 orange butter, 236 -, observations respoe ting it in the dairy, 314 , to make, 314 , to preserve, 315 , to preserve it in pans for winter use, 315 to manage cream for whey butter, 316 to choose it at market. 317384 1SDLX. fluttered rice, 216 lobsters, 23 • prawns and stumps 24 eggs, 245 oranges, 251 Buttermilk, 316 with bread or with; out, foT the sick, 341 — — Dr. lioerhaave’s sweet buttermilk, 341 — — puddiug, 17C Cabbages (red), to pickle, 217 • , to stew, 204 ; two other ways, 005 .small, to keep lor the winter, 211 Cak!:S,3, ’ 274 to 293 —- -, observations on ma- king and baking cakes 274 colouring to stair, cakes, 238 , iceing for cakes, 276 to ice a very large cake, 276 , a common cake, 276 , a very Cake, common bread 281 , queen cakes, two ways of making, 281 ——, Tunbridge cakes. 282 .ricecake, two ways of making, 282 and 283 , watercakes, 283 , spring? I’akes, 283 : a- nother with j;.t butter, 283 , tea cakes, 283 , Benton tea-cakes 3S4 as biscuits, 284; another sort, 284 .biscuit cake, 284 Yorkshire cake,292 Cake-trifle, 224 Cale sea, 2i0 Calf s-feet broth for the sick, two ways.328 -jelly, 232 another sort, 233 good one. 276 , an excellent cake, 27 , a very tiue one, 277 , rout drop cakes, 273 , flat cakes that will keep long in the house good 278 little white cakes, 278 , little short cakes, 279 , plum cake, 279; ano- ther way, 279 , very good common plum cakes,280 ■ little ones to keep lone, 280 —- a good pound cake2S •— —. a cheap seed-side, 281 another, 281 , Shrewsbury cakes 282 Calf s-head. to boil, 61 —, to hash, 61 —, another way, 62 —, fricasseed, 63 —, to collar, 63 -. pie, 154 CaU's-liver, broiled. 65 —, roasted, 65 — liver and lights, to dress, G5 — sweetbread, difl'er- ent ways, 66 kidney, 66 Calico furniture, to clean when taken down for the summer, 356 Camp vinegar. 142 To caudy any sort of fruit, 247 Capers, to keep, 216 , an excellent substitute lor caper-sauce, 140 ——, nasturtiums pickledfbi Carmel cover for sweetmeats, Carp, to choose, 2 .boiled, 13385 INDEX Carp, stewed, 13 baked, 13 Carpets, to dust, 360 .. . .. - to clean, 360 Carrier sauce for mutton, 138 "arrole of rice, 210 ' Carrots, to boil, 808 , to stew, 208 to preserve, to eat in the win'er, 210 pudding, 171 soup, 181 Casserole, or rice edging for a currie or fricassee, 149 Cast-iron, to clean stoves of, 363 ; another way, 363 Caudle for the sick th-ee ways of making, 333 jk a flour caudle. 333 — rice, 334 : another, 834 cold, 333 to give a way to the poor sick and lying in, 3-16 Cauliflowers, to boil, 203 in w hite sauce203 to dress wit Parmesan. 203 Caveach, pi kled mackarel so culled, 59 Cecils, 46 Celery, to stew, 202 Cement for broken china, 351 - /oman, for outside plastcringor brick-work,352 ChanUHv cake, 219 Chipped bends paste for, 349 lips, ointment for, 349 Chardoons, various ways of dressing, 208 — — to stew, 208 Charlotte, A. 179 Cheese, to pot, 243 Cheese, muscle plum 263 Clieece is also under different names, as Cream cheese, A pricot cheese, &c. —;—y observations respecting it in the dairy, 308 toprepare rennet to turn ♦he mili,; ; o ways, 310 to make eheese.3i0 to preserve itsound3ll to make sage cheese,312 apricot cheese, 250 cream cheese, 812 . rush cream cheese, 313 Cheese-puffs. 192 Cheesecakes lightpastefor,187 way of making them, 196 a plainer sort 197 another way, J97 — orange, 198 — a very fine crust for them, when to be particularly nice,lb4 ’potatoe, 198 Cheesecakes, lemon, 197 ■, another: 198 , almond, 198 two other ways 199 Cherry-pie, 186 Cherries to keep (like) enr- iants, 367 iu brandy, 806 to dry cherries with out sugar, 255 with- sngar, 235 to dry them the test way, 256 jam, 256 to keep, 267 roast.tocomeupafterlChickeus.to pot with ham,57 dinner, 2J4 Welsh rabbit, 244 cheese toast, 244 ——— damson cheese, 261 scallops of cold, 09 fricassee of, 99 —, to pull ehicKens,99 another w ay, 100INDEX 386 China, broken, a cement for, 307 China-chilo, 89 orange juice to keep, 271 Chocolate, to prepare, 335 cream, 229 Cider, to refine, 296 Clary wine, 300 Cocoa, patent, 336 Clouted cream, 230 Cockle ketchup, 218 Cod, to choose, 1 observations on buying and dressing, 8 head and shoulders, 8 crimp, 10 Cl’.ickens, to braise 101 , chicken etime, 100 another more easilv made, 100 Coffee, to make, 331 cream, much admired, 228 milk, 335 College [\ew] puddings, 166 Colouring (or soups or gra- vies, 115 lo stain jellies, ices, or cakes,238 Collops, muttou, 86 veal, 58 Scotch, 61 — Veal, dressed quick, 58 another way 58 Cookkuy for the sick, 326 to 362 for the poor, 842 to 346 Cough, extract of malt for 296 chicken and pars- ley pie, 154 Chicken-pie. 156 — , raised crust for, 160 Chicken broth, for the sick 329 — panada, for the sick, 334 , to fatten chickens in four or five days, 32) Chimney-pieces, stone, to blacken the fronts of, 368 Cod-sounds boiled, 10 broiled 10 dressed to look like small chickens 10 sounds ragout, 11 curric of cod, 11 salt, to dress, 11 small, stuffing for, 17 pie, 154 Codling, to keep for several months, 268 to scald, 234 tart, 189 cream, 229 soft and fine draught for those who are weak and have a cough,339 Covers tin, to clean, 363 Cow-heels, various ways of dressing, 51 jelly of. useful for soups and gravies, 113 Cows, management of, 367 Cowslip-wine excellent, 299 mead, 303 Crabs, to choose, 3 i hot, 24 | dressed cold, 24 Crack-nuts, 285 Cracknels, 28f> CranheTu s, different ways of dressing, 271 jelly, 234 and rice jelly, 231 Crastei : fish-sauce a-ln- ma- ster, 140 jCraw-fish soup, 127 Cray-fish in jelly, 24 Creaking of doors, how to prevent, 364 Cream. A cream, 225INDtX. Cream, aa excellent one 226 — burnt, two ways of doing, 226 sack, 226 brandy 226 ratafia, different ways of making’ 207 and 238 lemon, 227 “ yellow lemon-cream w ifhout cream 227. —— white lemon-cream 228 —- imperial, 298 almond, 228 snow, 228 ■ coffee-cream, muen admired, 228 chocolate, 229 codlin, 229 orange-cream, an excellent one, 229 raspberry, two ways of making, 229 ' — — spinach, 230 pistachio, 230 clouted cream, 230 a froth to set on cream, which looks and 387 Crust for venison pasty, 182 excellent short, 184 another, 181 another not sweet but rich 184 — a very fine one for or- ange cheesecakes, or sweet- meats. when required to he particularly nice, 184 —— for mea'f-pies or fowls. See. ICO See also the arti- cle Paste. Cucumbers, to slew, 202 another way, 202 and or.ior.s sliced- to pickle, 213 vinegar, 143 eats well, 231 ice-creams. 238 to manage cream in the dairy, for making whey butter, 31" •to scald. ns in the west of England, SIR —— to keep, 317 syrup of, 317 Crmun-cheese, three ways of making, 312 — rush cream cheese : two ways of mak ing it, 313 Crickets, to destroy, 336 Crust, raised, for meat-pics or fowls, 160 raised, for custards or fruit, 183 n •• i - to pickle young cucumbers, 213 !< 'ullis, or brown gravy, 129 Curd star. 223 Curds and cream, 222 another way. 223 } — and whey, Gallino. us in Italy, 317 — pudri.:igs or puffs. 176 — pudding boiled, 176 Currants, to keep, 267 dumolings or pud- dings, 179 — pie, 186 and raspberry tarts 187 jelly, red or Matk, 257 jam, black, red, or white, 257 sauce, the old, for venison, 138 white-enrra"tshrub 306 water-ice, 238 wine 291 — another way, 292388 INDEX. Currants, black-currant wine Drops, lemon, 264 very fine, 298 Currie, rice, edging for, 149 Custards, raisedcrustfor, 183 cheap and excellent ones, 1.95 Custards, richer, 196 baked, 196 —— lemon, 19G almond, 196 — a froth to set on cus- tard, which looks and eats well. ?31 Custard pudding, 174 Cutlets. Mainteuon, 57 another way, 58 other ways, 58 D. Dathv, 306 to 318 Damsons, to keep (like cur- rants, 268 to keep for winter pies, 267; another way, 267; another, 267 cheese, 261 • — ■ ■ dumplings, or pud- dings, 179 Davenport fowls, s7 Deeds [old.] a wash to make their writing legible, 356 Devonshire junket, 239 Dinners, list of family din- ners, 36t ■ ■ ■ general remarks concerning,338 Doors, to proven t from creak- ing, 364 Drink, a very agreeable one for the sick, 338 —— a refreshing one in a fever, 338 two others, 33R ■ a most pleasant drink, - barberry, 264 ’ ger ; a good stom- achic, 26. peppermint, 265 ratafia, 265 Ducks, to choose, 93 to roast, 101 to boil, 101 to stew, 101 to hash, 102 Ducks, wild, to dress, 109 sauce for, 131 —— pie, 157 management of ducks in the poultry-yard, 322 Duke of Cumberland’s pud- ding 168 Dumplings, Oxford, 178 — suet, 178 — apple, 179 — currant, 179 — damson, 179 yeast, or Suffolk 179 339 ”339 draught for a cough, 165 J V » • «• Dun-birds, to dress, 109 Dunelm of cold veal cf fowl, 56 Dutch flummery, 221 puduuig, or soustcr, Tice-pudding, 165 sauce for meat or fish, 130 To Dye the linings of furni- ture, &c. 351 gloves ,355 E Eels, to choose, 3 — spitchcock, 19 —— fried, 19 — boiled, 19 — broth, 19 —— fot the sick, 329 — collared, 20 — stewed [like lamprey,] 20INDEX. 3S9 Eels, soup, 196 pie, 151 Eggs, buttered, 245 Scotch, 215 to poach, 245 -— sauce, 135 wine, for the sick, 342 — little eggs for tuTtle, 149 mine-'pies, 187 —different way of prepar- ing eges for the sick, 332 to choose eggs at mar- ket, and to preserve them, 321 Elder wine, 300 white, very much like Frontiniac, 300 English bamboo, 213 English wines, remarks on, 2'J7 Essence of Anchovies, 146 Eve’s pudding, 168 Extract of malt for coughs, 296 F. Family dinners, list of, 364 to 377 general remarks on dinners, 378 Feathers, care and manage- ment of, 323 / Firmity, Somersetshire, 222 Fish, 1 to 27 how to choose, 1 observations on Iress- ing, 4 pie, a remarkably line one, 152 gravy, strong, 131 ■ — sauce for fish-pies, where cream is Dot order- ed, 137 jelly to cover cold fish, 132 sauce without butter, 139 —-sauce a-la-eraster, 140 Fish, a very fine fish sauce, 139 Flannels, *0 make them keep their colour, anil not shrink 354 Floating island, 221 another wav, 221 Floor-cloths, directions res- pecting them, 359 to clean them 360 Floors, to dust, 360 to give to boards a beautiful appearance, 361 to extract oil from boards or stone, 361 Flounders to choose, 4 to fry, 20 Flour, American; manage- mentofin making bread, 289 Flummery, 221 Eutch, 221 ———— rice, 222 Fool, gooseberry, 225 apple, 225 orange. 225 Forcemeat, fnr patties, balls, or stuffing, 146 ingredients for, 147 Forcemeat, for cold savoury pies, '48 — — very fine force- meat balls for fish soups, or fish stewed, on maigre- days, 148 as for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol, 148 Forcing explained, 117 Fowls, to choose, 93 boiled, 96 boiled with rice, 97 roasted, 97 broiled, two ways. 97 raised crust for fowls, 160INDEX. 590 Fowls, Davenport fowls, 97 a nice way to dress a fowl, for a small dish, 98 to force, 98 and 147 to braise, 98 fricassee of chickens, 99 sauce for fowl of any sort, 134 a good sauce for hiding the bad colour of fowls, 133 white-sauce for fricas- see of fowls, 133 — sauce for cold fowls, 134 mushroom sauce for fowls, 184 lemon w hite-sauce for boiled fowls, 135 to blanch, 113 a dunelm of cold, 56 to roast wild fowl, 109 vingaret for cold fowl, 142 scallops of cold chick- en, 59 to pot chicken with ham, 57 management of fowls in the poultry-yard, 318 _ to fatten them iu four or fire days, 321 French beans, to dress, 204 to preserve, to eat in the winter, 210 French pie, 159 —————salad, 206 bread, 291 French rolls, 291 milk-porridge, 336 Fricandean of beef, 39 — of veal, 59 . . — ■■— a cheaper but equally good one, 69; another way, 60 . to stew sorrei for Fricassee of fowls, rabbits, &c. white-sauce for, 133 Fritters, 181 Spanish, 181 potatoe, 181 another way, 181 Froth, to set on cream, cus- tard, or trifle, which looks and eats well, 231 Fruit to keep for_ tarts, or family* deserts, 271 raised crust for, 183 remark on using pre- set red fruit in pastry, 185 to keep for winter use, 266 to prepare for children ; a far more wholesome way than ir. pies and puddings, 237 to green for preserving or pickling, 247 in candy any sort of 217 biscuits of, 262 stains,bow to take theiq, out of linen, 353 Fruit-pies, isc. 185 Frying herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire, 209 — the Staffordshire dish of flying herbs and liver, 216 Furniture linings, to dye them of different colours, 354 calico, to clean when taken down for the summer, 356 Furs, to preserve from moths 864 G. Gallino curds and whey, as in Italy, 317. Gamb, ice. to 93 to 113. Game, to choose, 92, and 94, 206391 INCLX. Game, directions 94 Geese, to choose, 93 to toast, 109 green Goose pie, 157 management of geese in the poultry-yard, 323 George padding, 171 German light puddings or puffs, 165 Giblets, to stew. L0 — ■ - soup. 117 pie, 158 Gilding, to preserve and clean 357 Ginger drops a good stom- achic, 265 wine excellent, 299 another, 299 Gingerbread,2«6 another sort, 286 — a good plain sort —a good sort with- out butter. 286 Gloss, to give one to fine oak wainscots.^<59 Gloucester jelly for the sick. 331 Gloves, to dye the t like York tan or Limerir k, 355 to dye wiiite ones a beautiful purple, 355 Golden ptpplns.'stewed, 235 Gooseberries, to keep, 263 another way for dressing Granary, to preservefrom in- sects or weasels, 356 Grates, to clean the backs ot, 363 Graviks 128 to 132 general directions 286 269 259 175 - - another, 269 - trifle, 224 - fool, 225 - hops, 259 - jam for tarts, another, 259 —- white, 259 - pudding, baked, -Vinegar, 112 respecting, 113 and 128 Gravies, colouring for, 115 a clear brown stock for gravy-souo or gravy, 115 soup. 120 ■ auu j'. *«» v ■ to draw gravy that will keep a week, 129 a clear gravy, 129 - brown grary.or eul- lis, 129 a rich gravy, 130 a gravy without a fowl when meat, 130 for there is no meat to make it of, 131 to make mutton cat like venison, 131 a strong fish gravy. 131 , Or.ayline, to fry, 14 Green, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 239 ■ to groeri fruits for pre- serving or pickling, 247 Green snuce for treen-geese, or ducklings, 1!B Green-gages to preserve 261 goose pie, 157 t * Ground-rice pudding 178 milk. 336 Grouse, to dress. 108 Gruel, water, 337 barley 338 Gudgeons to choose, 2 Guinea-fowl, to dress, 110 management of Gu- inea-lions in the ponltry- yard, 325. H Haddock, 16INDEX 392 Haddock, to dry, 16 stuitinR for, 17 Hagget, llev. Mr. economi- cal bread,289 Hair; an excellent water to prevent it from failing ofl, au<l to thicken it, 350 Halls, stone, how to clean, 361 Haros, to choose, 29 —.— to cure, 78 Haros, two other ways of cut- in" them, 78 and 79 - another way that gives Herb the Staffordshire dish of frying-herbs, 209; with liver, 246 Herrings, to choose, 1 — to smoke, 2. — fried, 2i — broiled, 21 — (red,) to dress, 21 — potted, 21 (like lobsters,) 22 baked, 22 a high flavour, 79 a method of giving a still highcT flavour, 79 a pickle for them, that'— will keep for years, 80 to uress, 80, paste for to clean, sauce,138 Hands, chapped, 349 Hangings, paper, 359 Hares, to choose, 94, ■ directions concerning, 110 to roast. Ill to jug an old hare, 111 broiled and hashed, 112 pie to eat cold, 159 to pot. 112 soup, 123 Hessian soup and ragout, 123 Hog’s head, to make excel- lent meat of, 72 . cheeks, to dry, 73 ears, to force, 74 puddings, white,77 lard, 78 Home-bkeweby, 8cc. 293 to 306 Honey-comb, lemon, 240 water, to make, 350 Harxico ot veal, 56 of mutton, 84 Harslet, pig’s. 75 Hartshorn jelly, 233 Hay, green ; to prevent it from tiring, 356 Heart, beef, 50 Hearths, casMton, and black to clean, 363 •— another way, 303 Herb" pie, 160 Hops, gooseberry, 259 Hotch-potch, an excellent one, 88 another, 88 House-1,'rob steaks, while, 90 brown, 91 Uungary-wntoT, to make, 3o'J Hunter’s beef, 41 pudding, 1*3 lceing for tans, 188 for cakes, 276 - to ice a very . large cake, 276, Ice, how to prepare for ice- mg, 237 — ice-waters, 237 currant or rasp- berry water-ice, 238 —brown-bread ice, 23? ere an;,, 238 colouring for staining ices, 238 ‘imperial, 303393 INDEX Imperial cream, 228 Indian pickle, 213 Ink, black, to make, 351 ■. - — — auother way, 351 Iron-moulds, to take them out of linen. 354 Iron-stains, to take them out of marble, 302 Irons, to preserve them from rust, 362 — another way, 363 Italian beef-steaks, 43 J. Jams. Cherry jam, 256 currant jam, Ted, black, or white, 257 — gooseberry jam for tarts, 253 — white, 259 raspberry jam, 2‘>0 Jarganel pears, to preserve most oeautiful!y,2o8 Jelly, a savoury one for pies to eat cold, 131 to cover cold fish. 132 calf's feet jelly, 232 orange, 23.'’ — hartshorn, 233 — cranberry, 234 cranberry and nee jelly, apple, to serve at table. two way3 of making, 234 —— colourings to stain jel- lies, 238 currant jelly, red, or black, 257 apple jelly, for preserv- ing apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 257 —— red apples in jelly, 258 Jellies for the sick. 329 Dr. Ratcliff’s restora- 339 jellv, 329 y, 329 live pork-jelly, • shank-jelly arrow-root tapioca jell; Jellies Gloucester jelly, 331 Other jellies are under the names of the differentprin- cipal articles they ar1' made of: as Calf's feet jelly, Sc. Jerusalem artichokes, to dress, 202 Jugged hare, 111 Junket, Dcvonsire, 239 K. Kebobbed mutton, 83 Ketchup, mushroom, 217 ——another way 217 walnut, of the finest sort, 2J8 ——— cockle, 218 Kidney, veal, 66 niuttou, 88 pudding, 172 Kitchen pepper, 144 Xi. Lamb, to choose, 28 leg, 89 fore-quarter, 90 breast and cucumbers, 90 shoulder forced, with sorrel sauce, 90 Lamb steaks, 90 with cucumbers, 87 pie, 156, liouse-lamb steaks, white, 90 house-lamb steaks, brown, 91 cutlets with spinach, 91 head and hinge, 91 —— - lamb's fry, 91 sweetbreads, 91 a very nice dish, 92 Lambstones fricasseed. 92 i . fricassee of them and sweetbreida another way, 92 27INDEX 301 Lamprey, to stew, as at Wor- cester, 20 Lard, 78 Larks and other small birds to dress, 105 Lavender water, to make, 350 Laver, 210 Leek Soup, Scotch, 122 and pilchard pie, 152 Lemons, to keep for puddings fee. 254 mince pies, 187 to preserve in jelly, 254 ——— cheesecake, 197 Lemon cheesecake, another, 198 cream, 227 yellow, without cream, 227 — white ditto, 228 —— custards, 1.90 ■—_ drops, 264 honeycomb, 240 marmalade, 251 juice, to keep, 271 pickled lerr,oas, 214 — lemon pickle, 211 pudding, air excellent Light, excellent light puffs, 193 Lights (calf's) and liver, to dress, 65 Linen, how to take stains o' fruit or acids out of, 353 also iron-moulds and nrl- dew, 354 Linings of furniture, to dye of different colours, 354 Lips chapped, ointment for 349 List of different articles in season in each month, 364 to 367 Liver [calf’s] broiled, 65 — roasted,65 — to dress the liver and lights, 65 — the Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver, 246 — sauce,135 Lobsters, to choose, 3 to pot them, 22, to pot another way. one, 164 Lemon puffs, 192 sauce,138 — white sauce for boiled fowls, 135 water fOT the sick, 340 ■ wliey lor the sick, 340 as at Wood’s hotel, 22 stewed, as a vety high relish, 23 — buttered, 23 to roast, 23 cuTrle of them, 23 — soup, excellent, 127 ■ - —.— sauce, 141 - another way, 141 Lemonade, to be made a day| before wanted, 272 —- — another way, 273 that has the flavour appearance of jelly. and 273 for the sick, 342 Lent potatoes, 220 Light, or German puddings or pufik, 165 pie, 152 — patties, 191 — salad, 206 London syllabub, 239 Looking-glasses, to clean,357 M. Macaroni, as usually served, 241 two other ways,242 dressed sweet, a ve- rynioe dish, of, 220 soup, 113INDEX. 31)5 Marcarom pudding, 171 Macaroon* 284 Mackerel,to choose, 3 boiled. 15 broiled, is — — collared 15 potted, 15 —[like lobsters] 23 pickled, 15 - ■ pickled, called ca- veach,is pie (like cod, 154 Magnum bonun plums, 263 Manoganv, to give a fine col- our to,359 to take ink out of, Vt9 ' /aids, 13, •wait, extract of, for coughs, 296 Mangoes, melon, 213 Marble, to take stains out of, 362 —iron stains 36-2 Marmalade orange 251) I'.iinee, 263 lemon, S51 transparent, 251 apple, 257 Marrow-bones, 51 Mead, saek, 302 cowslip. 303 Mb it, 27 to 93 to choose, 27 to 29 observations on pur- chasing keeping, and dress- ing, 29 to 33 to keep meat hot, 33 — to force meat, 147 Melon mangoes 213 Melted batter, no essential article Tarely done well 111 Mildew to take it out of lin- en, 354 Milk to keep ia the dairy317 rice and sago, 210 Milk codec, 335 ■filk, ground rice milk. 335 Milk, sago milk. 240 and 337 Milk, Asi-es’, 337 Milk porridge.336 French 336 Milk-punch or verder, 01 Millet pudding, 174 Mince pie, 186 Mince pie, without meat, 186 . lemon, 187 . egK. 187 patties, resembling mince pies, 192 Mock brawn, 75 Mock turtle, 63 a cheaper way. , two others, 65 Moor-game, to pot, 108 Morels and truffles, useful to thicken soups and sauces preserve them 'n the win- ter, 114 Mortar, Roman, for outside plasteringor brick-work35? Muffins, 292 Mulled wine, two ways, 334 Mullets, to choose, 2 , red, to dress, 15 Muscle-plum cheese, 262 Mushrooms, observations re- specting, 205 to dry, 145 , an excellent way to pickle, to preserve the fla- vour, 217 Mushroom ketchup, 217 , another way, 217 . to stew, 206 powder, 146 sauce, very fine for fowls or rabbits, 134 Mustard, to make, 144 —.— r_i another way for immediate use, 144 Mutton, to choo*e,28INDEX 396 Mutton observations on keep- ing and dressing, SI , leg, 82 , neck,82 , shoulder, roasted, 83 • , haunch, 83 . saddle, to Toast, 83 —, fillet, braised, 84 — , harrico, 84 , to liaah, 84 , shoulder boiled with oysters, 85 — , breast, 85 ,loin, 85 —, rolled loin, 85 , ham, 88 collops, 86 — cutlets in the Portu- gese way, 8G • steaks, 87 , steaks of. orlamband cucumbers. 87 steaks maintenon, 87 sausages, 87 rumps and kidneys, 88 «a excellent hotch- potch, 88 kebobbed, 89 • China Chile. 89 broth, Scotch, 115 — pie, 156 ——— pudding, 172 , enother, 172 pasty, to eat as well1' as vemeon, 194 N, Nasturtions, to pickle for ca-1 peTS, 143 Nelson Pudding. 167 New college puddings, 1C6 Norfolk punch, two ways,305 Nets, Crack, 385 O, Oak-wains; ot, fine to give a gloss to, 359 Oatmeal pudding, 165 Oil, how to extract Isom boards or stone, 361 Old deeds, charters, itc. on paper or parchment, when the writing is obliterated or sunk, to make it legible, 356 Olives, 214 Omelet, 242 Onions, pickled, 215 sliced with cucumbers, 215 Onion sauce, 135 soup, 122 to stew, 202 to roast, 202 ,store, to preserve in winter, 210 Orangeade for the sick, 342 Orange butter, 236 Orange marmalade, 250 biscuits or cakes,253 cheesecakes, 198 , a very nice crust for, 184 chips, 253 fool, 225 cream, excellent, 229 jelly, 233 —— juice, buttered, 252 pudding, three ways of mah mg, 163 and 164 Orange,(China) iuie*; a very useful thing to mix with water in fevers, wheu the fresh juice cannot be had. 271 tart,.188 Orange-flower cakes, 253 Oranges, to butter, 251 ; to butter hot, 251 buttered orange juice, a cold dish, 252 —■ , to keep for pud- dings, Stc. 254 , preserved to hit a corner dish, 252 , whole, carped, 252IN DUX 397 Oranges, to preserve in jelly 264 Orgeat, two ways. 272 for the sick, 341 —— arotheT way, 311 Ortolans, to roast., J10 Ox-eheek, stewed plain,53 to dress it another way, — feet, various ways of dres- sing, 51 — rump soup, 123 Oxford dumplings, 178 Oysters, to choose. 3 ——, to feed, 25 ■ ■ ■ to stew, 25 -- — boiled, 25 ■ ■, scalloped. 25 ■ 1 -.fried, to garnish boiled flsh, 25 , loaves, 26 i to pickle, 26 •, another way,2G - patties, 190 43 sauce to 1 wef steak-: - sauce,140 - soup, 128 - mouth ditto, 128 Paint, to clean, 358 Palates, beef. 41 Panada, made in five minutes for the sick, 331 — two others, 331 , chicken, 331 Pancakes, common, 179 . line ones fried without butter, or lard 180 , Irish, 180 -•■ ■.. of rice, l«0 >lew England, 180 Paper, black, for'drawing patterns, 360 Paper-hangings, to clean,358 Parmesan ana cauliflower, how to dress, 203 Parsley sauce, when no pars- ley, leaves arc to be had, 136 —— pie, 159 ———, to preserve for thp winter, 211 Parsneps, fricassee of, 208 to mash, 208 , to preserve to est in the winter, 210 Partridges, to choose, 94 to roast, 107 Partridges, to pot, 107 . a very cheap way, 108 , sauce for them cold, 134 soup, 117 Partridee-pie in a dish. 158 Paste, rich puff, 182 , a less rich one, 182 , rich, for sweets, 183 rice, for relishing things, 188 poiatoe, 183 , light, for tarts and cheesecakes, 187 , strong, for paper, 364 for chapped lips, 349 for chapped hands,319 Pas-iky, 182 to 199 , observations on .185 , remark on using preserved fn.i* ia, 185 Pasty, toprepaie venison for, •93 , venison pasty, 193 , crust for, 1S2 -— of beef, or mutton, to eat as well as reunion, 194 potatoe, 195 Patent cocoa, 336 Patties, fried, 190 oyster, 190 -—, orsmall pie,I90 lobster, 131 beef, or podovies,131 veal, 191INDEX. to dress, 110 H93 . '.ties, turkey. 191 sweet,’ 192 , redrawing pies, 192 mxnce- , forcemeat, for. 146 Other patties are under the * — . ~ • ------- 1 '*f'prej;tr, w i Ulf, OCC. naxn^s of the article* they. Tig (stiftkini • to scald, 70 ■p mnnn r.f 1 . Vies savoury, observations on, 150 Other pies are under the names of the principal ar- ticles they are made of; as Apple pie. Kelpie, &<•.. are made of. Peaches in brandy, 249 Pea-foe V io dress, 110 ———, management of them in the poultry-yard, 324 Pears, stewed, 255 • baked, 236 ——, jarganel, to presence most beautifully, 259 Peas, to boil, 201' , (old; soup, 119 .(green) ditto, 119 ”■ , to stew, 201 , to keep, 200 ; , another way. practised in the emperor of Russia’s kitchen, 200 , to stew old peas, 201 Pepper, kitchen, 144 Peppermintdrops, 265 Pepper-not, lib Perch, 14 —-—,to choose, 2 .to fry (like trout), 14 Pettitoes. 72 Pewter, patent, porter-pots. to clean, 363 Pheasants, to choose, 94 , to roast, 107 Picxi.es, 211 to 217 • rules to be observed with regard to them. 211 — . to green fruits for pickling. 247 ——, that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, 80 Other pickles ere Under the n ante of the articles pickled Plus, savoury, 150 to‘l61 , fruit pies, 185 for . to roast, 71 Pig’s cheek to prepare boiling, 72 head collared, 73 — feet and cars, different ways of dressing, 74 fricasseed"! ■ jelly of feel and ears 75 souce for them, 7G harslet, 75 pettitoes, 72 Pigeons, to choose, 93 — various ways of dressing. 102 , to stew two ways, 103 .to broil, 103 , to roar', 104 , to pickle, 104 —— , in jelly, 104 , the same, a beauti- ful dish, 105 , to pot, 106 pie, 158 , management of live pigeons, 325 Pike, to choose, 2 , to hake, 16 .stuffing for, 17 Pilchard and leek pie, 162 Pipers, to dress, 16 Pippin pudding, 177 tart, 188 , stewed golden pip- pins, 235 Pistachio cream, 230 Plaice, an excellent way of dressing a large one, IS Plate, to clean, 357 Plovers, to choose, 94399 INDEX. Plover*, to dress their eggs no Plums, magnum bonum, ex cellent as a sweetmeat or in tarts, though bad to eat raw. 263. Plum-cake, two ways of ma- king, 279 very good com Porker’s head, to roast, 72 Portable aoup, 134 Porter-pots, p&tept pewter, to clean, 363 Pot pourri, to make, 348 -, a quicker sort of mon ones 280 —, little ones to k eep long. 280 Plum-pudding, 177 Podovies or beef patties, m_ Pomade divine, to make.341 Pomatum aoft. to make, 346 , another way, 347 _ hard, 347 PooB, OOOK.KKY FOB, 342 to 346 general re- marks and hints on this subject, 342 Pork, to choose, 28 PoTk, to Ralt for eating imme. diately, 35 , remarks on cutting up, 8tc. 67 , _ , toroastamg, 67 to boil a leg, 67 , loin and neck roast, 68 shoulders and breasts,68 ) rolled neck, 68 spring or forehand, b8 —, sparerib, 68 griskin, 68 blade-bone 69 , to dress pork as iamb,62 ’ to pickie, 69 , steaks 69 , sausages, 70 ' a„ excellent sausage to eat cold, 70 pies, excellent, to eat cold. 155 „ ieily. Dr. KatcluTs res torati'e, 329 sweet-pot, 348 Potatoes, to boil, 207 ■, to broil, 2(17 to roast, 207 , to fry, 207 — , p^ty ,pie,l , to masb, 207 , cheesecakes, , Lent, 220 •, paste, 183 198 195 60 pudding, an excel- lent plain one, 171 pudding with maat. 171^^™ f — rolls. 292 Potting birds, a very cheap wav of, 108 to clarify b itter to1 potted things. 108 Poultby. &c 92 to 106 directions lor choo sing. 92 . i—, for dressing, 94 POULTRY-YABD, 318 tO 326 Pound-cake good, 280 Prawns, to choose. 3 , currie of, 23 Prawns, to butter. 24 . and cray-fieb in jelly 24 „ soup, 127 Preserved fruit, remarks on using, in pastry, 185 “ , to green fruit for preserving, 247 —, to pre» serve fruits for winter use, 206 to 274 Prune tart, 188 Penn 18 us. &c. 161 to 18* in haste, 366INDEX. 400 Puddings, a quick made on" 118 *— observations on making (hem, 161 — , to keep oranges or lemons for, 254 Other puddings are under the names of the principal arti- cles they are made of, or their first names; as Bread pudding,Light pudding,&e. Puff-paste, rich, 182 Puff-paste, less rich. 182 Puffs, light orGerman, 165 1 uffs,exce!lent l.ghtones,193 , apple puffs, 192 , lemon puffs, 192 “—cheese puffs, 192 Puits d’amour, 226 Punch, an excellent method of making. 304 , milk orverder, 305 r , norlolk, tv, o ways,305 Purple, a beautiful oue for dyeing gloves, 355 „ .. Q Quails, to dross, 109 Quaking pudding, 168 Queen cakrs. two ways of making, 281 Quick made padding, 178 Quinces, to preserve whole or half. 263 Quince marmalade, 262 U abbits managementofliva 326 Ragout, 11 ssian, & soup, 123 Raised crust for custards or fruit, 183 for meat-pies or fowls &c. 160 Raisin wine, excellent, 301 with cider. 301 Raisin wine without cider,302 Ramakins, 213 Raspberry tart with cream, 188 Raspberry and currant tart, brandy, 304 Cakes, 261 and 274 ■ cream, two ways, Rabbits, to choose, 94 various ways of dressing, 1)2 , to make them taste much like hare, 113 ———. to pot 113 , to blanch, 113 — pit (like chicken)156 fricasseed, crust for 183 229 Raspberry jam, 260 Raspberry jam, another way 260 Raspberry vinegar, 273 vinegar water, for the sick, 340 water ice, 238 wine, two ways of making. 297 Ratafia, 303 — cream, 238 Ratafia crtaui, anotbet way, 227 Ratafia drops, 265 Ratcliff's, Dr. restorative pork jelly, 329 Receipts, various,346 to 356 Red, a beautiful one, to stain jellies, ices ox cakes, 238 Red apples in jelly, 258 Red cabbage, to stew 204 Red cabbage, to pickle, 217 Red herrings, to dress, 21 Red mullet, to dress, 15 Rennet, to prepare it to turn, the milk in making chec'- 310 Restorative, a great oue, 332401 INDEX. Restorative, two others. 332 , another, n most pleasant draught, 333 R ••atom tire pork jelly. 329 Rhubarb tart, 139 Rice savoury, 210 Rice, edging, or easserol, 149 Rice paste for sweets, 183 Ri<p paste for relishing things, 183 , carrole of. 240 Eire, buttered, 21C Ricecnke, two ways 282 and wheat hrpad, 290 caudle for the sick, 334 . another, 834 flummery, 222 and apple, souffle o!,216 milk, 240 , gTound-rice milk, 336 pudding Dutch, 165 small, 169 —, piain, 169 , rich, 170 .— , with fruit. 170 Rice pudding, baked, 174 Rice pudding, another way for the family, 170 Rice, ground [mdding, 178 Roasting meat, observations on. S3 Robart, sauce for rumps or steaks, 136 Roiis, excellent, 291 , French, 291 , Brentford, 291 , potatoe. 292 Roman cement or mortar for outside plastering or brick work. 352 Rot in sheep, to prevent, 356 Rout drop-cake, g?8 Ruffs and re< ves, to dress 100 Ramp of beef, stewed, 39 Rump of Beef, another way. »0 — . , ox-rump soup, 123 Rump of beef, roasted, SO Rump of mutton and kidney Rusks, 287 Russian seed pudding, 178 Rust, to preserve irousfrom, 362 Rust, to take it out of steel,363 S. Sack, creein, 296 Sack, mead, 302 Sage, cheese, to make, 312 sago, to prepare for the sick, 336 Sago, toprepnretoeiveaway to poor families.§45 milk, 240 and 337 pudding, 163 Salad, French, 206 Salad, lobster, 206 Salmagundi, 241 Salmon, to ehoose, 1 , to boil, 7 Salmon, to broil, 7 , to pot, 8 Salmon, to dry, 8 Salmon, an excellent dish,of dried, 8 Salmon to pickle, 9 Salmon, collared, 9 Saloop, 336 t Sanders, 47 , Sauces, &c, 133 to 149 Sanders, ,i very good sauce, "specially to hide the bad colour of fowls, 133 , white sauce for fri- cassee. of f' H-ls, ra'>h;wi white meat, llsh, or vegeta-' hies, 133 Sauce for wild fowl, 113:1 , another for the same, or for Jucks. 134 , nnaxcellent sauce for carp or boiled turkey, 1:14 — —, sauce for fowl of any sort, 134 2INDEX 4 02 Sauce, for cold fowl or par- tridge, 134 • , a very fine mushroom sauce for fowls or rabbits, 134 Sauces, &c. lemon white sauce, for boiled fowls, 135 , liver sauce, 135 , egg sauce, 135 , onion sauce, 135 Sauce, lobster-sauce, two ways, 141 , anchovy-sauce, 141 white-sauce, or bech- amel, 130 Some other sauces, Sto. are under the names of differ- ent dishes, or of the prin- cipal articles the sauces are made off. , elearshallotsauce,136jSausages, veal, 00 to! Sausages, pork -, an t'Xceileutsauaage , parsley sauce, make when no parsley] leaves can he had, 156 to cat cold, TO —, green sauce for greeniSausagcs.Spanhury’s Oxford a.,,; , 7Q Sausages, mutton, 67 , Dutch sauce for meat: Scallops of cold veal orchicK- ’ . en, 59 for'Scotch collops, 61 Scotch mutton broth. 115 or fish, 136 , nauce Ilobart, rumps or steaks, 136 , Benton sauce, for hot Scotch leek-soup, 122 or cold Toast beef. 137 'Scotch eggs, 245 sauce for fish pies,'Sea-cale, 211’ where cream is notorder-ISeed-cake, a cheap one, 281 ed, Uvo waysofmal.tng,137‘,Seed-efl[ke, another, 281 , toinata sauce, lor 1ioI]8rry*nts. dirfctions fob, or cold meats, 137 j 35b , apple-sauce, for gooseiShal’.ot-sauce. cloav, 136 and roast pork, 138 , the old i errant sauce lor venison, 136 , lemon-sance, 136 Shallot vinegar, 142 Shank jelly, for the sick, 330 Sheep, to prevent the rot in sheep, 1156 -.carrier-sauce for mut-]Sliclford pudding, 176 ton. 138 Shoes, anneblaoking for,364 . ham-sauce, 138 jShort i akes. little ones, how , a very fine fish-sauce,] to make, 279 139 'Shrewsbury cakes, 283 another, Shrimps, to choose, 3 'Shrimps, to butter, 34 139 , fish sauce without butter. 139 , fish-sauce a-la-Cras- ter, 140 , an excellent substi- tute, for caper-sauce, 140 . oyster-sauce, HO ——. shrimp sauce, 14i Shrimps, to pot, 21 Shrimps sauce, 141 Shrimp pie, excellent, 151 Shrub, white currant, 306 Sick vmb sons, cook ere fob 326 to 346 Sick persons, general re- marks on the subject, 326INDEX. 10? ippits for the sick, when the stomack, will not receive meat. 332 Skate, 12 • , to choose, X crimp, 13 soup, 126 Smelts, to choose, 3 Smelts, to fry, 18 Snipes, to dross, 109 Snow, may be used instead of eggs, in puddings or pan- cakes, 162 Snow balls, 220 Snow cream, 228 Soles, to choose, 1 Soles boiled, 17 Soles fried. 17 - anotherway, 17 Soles stewed, 17 Soles stewed in the portu geseway, 17 — Portugese stuffing for Staffordshire dish of irvine .1 a Kale, wl lO C.- .. nr,,. » Soup, ao e rcellent one for the same purpose, 345 Other soups are under the ’.ames ot tl.e principal *f_ tides they are m-de of Souse foi brawn and for pig's feet and ears, 76 Snusieror Dutch pudding, 165 Sparerib of pork, 68 Spinach, to boil, 204 Spinach soup, 122 Spinach cream, 230 Sponge cake, 283 Sponge cake, another with- out butter, 2«3 Sprats, to choose, 4 Sprats baked. 22. Sprats, to broil, 21 Sprats, to make them taste like anchovies, 140 Squab pie, 156 Staffordshire be. '-steaks, 43 soles baked, 18 Soles pio, 151 Somersetshire hrreity, 22k Sort el, to stew for fricandeau at, d roast meat, 206 herbs, &c. 20'J : with liver, 246 Stains, to take any kind out of .iaen, 353 ...... | Stains caused hy acids, 353 Souffe of rice and apple; 21fii another way for fruit Sounds, cod’s, to look like stains,353; anothej, 353 small chickens; 10 So era; &c. 116 to 128 Soups; general directions res- pecting them, 115 Soups, colouring for 115 — an excellent soup. 116 an excellent white soup; 110 Soups; a plainer white one; 117 Soup a-la-sap; 124 Soup, portable, l£t Soup, maigre, 125 — , another, 126 j stock lor brown or, Steaks Stains of wine, fruit, ike. af- ter they havp been lone in theiinen, 353 — — many other -tains, 353 Stains, to take them out of marble, 362; Iron-stains, 362 Steaks, beef 42 Steaks, beet, and oyster sauce, 43 Steaks Staff .rdabire heef, 13 Steaks, sauce for. 136 beef-steak pie. 153 •puddiig 172 - — ... beef-steak pu l.hjig 'wh'te fish soilps. 126 baked. 172 Eoup, a baked one to give Steaks, mutton. 87 away to poor families, 243!Steaks. iUiian beef; 43INPEX. 404 Steaks, mutton, or lamb and cucumbers. 87 steaks Main tenon 87 lamt) 90 • pork, fi!) Steel; to take rust out of. 303 Stock, clear brown for gravy soup or gravy, 115 for brown or white fish soups, 120 Stone, to extract oil from,301 chimney pieces, to blacken'lie fronts of, 362 • stairs and halls, to clean 361 Stoves, to clean the front of cast-iron stoves 363 to lake the black of the bright bars of polished ones in a few minutes, 363 Strawberries, to presen e them whole, 255 to preserve in wine, 255 Stucco, excellent, which will adhere to wood-work, 302 mason’s washes for 352 Spiffing for pike: haddock, and small cod, 17 for soles baked, 18 . forcemeat for, 146 Sturgeon, to dress fresh. 11 — to roast, 12 — an excellent imita- tion of pickleu. 12 Sucking pig, to scald. 70 , to roast, 70 Suet, to preserve it a twelve- month, 240 pudding, 173 — veal suet pudding 173 dumplings, 178 Sutfolk dumplings, 179 Sueur, to clarify.' for sweet- meats, 347 rinegoT. 142 Suppers, general remarks on 379 dish, a pretty one, 243 Sweet DtSHES, 216 Sweetbreads, veal, 66 , roasted, 66 ragout. 68 , lamb’s; 91 . fricassee of lamb- stones and sweetbreads, 91 Sweetmeats, &c. 247 to 274 observations on, 266 gar for, 217 , to clarify su- a very fine crust forthem, when requi- red to be particularly nice, 184 , carmel cover for sweetmeats v31 excellent for tarts when fruit is plentiful 263 Sweet-pot, to make 340 Sweets, rice paste for, 183 Sweet patties, 192 Syllabub, London, 239 , Staffordshire, 239 -, a very fine Somer- setshire one. 239 , everlasting or solid, 239 Syrup of cream, 268 T. Table-beer, excellent to brew 295 Tansey; 210 Tapioca jelly forthe9lck, 330 Tartlets, how to prepare bar- berries for, 209 Tarts, light paste for, 187 excellent sweetmeats forthem when fruit is plen- tiful, 2631NPFX. 405 Tarts, icing for th"m, 188 ■ ■■ ■ pippin, 1 Sts • prune, 188 orange, 188 codliu, ISO rhubarb. 189 raspberry with cream 169 Tea-cakes, 283 - Benton tea-cakes, jTripe soused, 51 [Trout to fry. I t to pot like lobsters,22 281 — another sort, as a-la-genovo'se, 14 Truffles and morels, useful for soups and sauces, 114 -, bow to biscuits, 284 another sort, 284 Teal, to dress, 109 Tench, 14 ——. to choose, 2 ———, to fry ,like trout) 11 broth for the sick, 327 Thornbaek, 12 Tin covers, to clean, 363 Toast, cheese, 21-4 anchovy, two wars, 244 Toast and water for the sick, 339 Toraata sauce, for hot or cold meats, 137 Tongues and udder, to roast, 48 • to pickle for boiling preserve them in the .vin- ter, 2H Tunbridge cakes, 282 Turbot to choose, 1 — . , to keep, 6 , to boil, 7 Turkeys, to choose, 92 —, to boil, 95 an excellent two ways; 48 stewed. 49 sance for them boiled, 134 , to roa .t, 96 polled, 90 patties, 191 management of'ur- keys in the poultry yard, 274 Turnip soup. 119 pie, 160 Turtle; little eggs for; 149 , forcemeat for them, 148 Udder and tongue, to rosst, 48 V. an excellent way of j Veal to choose, 27 doing them to eat cold. 19 a pickle for them: ,to keep, 52 , ieg,52 , knuckle, 53 shoulder, 53 that will keep for years, 80 Tourt, orange, 188 Transparent marmalade; 251 j , neck, 53 pudding, 108 I-— , a-la-br&ise, 51 Trifle, au excellent oue, 224; • gooseberry or apple, j- . cake. 284 ■ a froth to set in triflel 224 which looks and eats well,' 281 Trilie. 51 —, breast of, 54 —, rolled breast, 55 —, rolled another way, 55 —, chump of veal a-)a- daube, 55 — rolls of either cold meat or fresh, 56 —, harrico of, 50INDEX. 400 Veal, a dunelm of cold.uG minced, 57 potted, 57 to pot v( J with ham,6’ cutlets, Maintenon, 57 another way. 58 other ways, 58 collops, 58 to dress collops quick,58 scallops of cold real, 59 — fricandeau, 59 a cheaper but equally good lricandeau, 59 fricandeau another way, 60 olives. 60 cake, 60 sausages. 60 broth, U5 gravy, 131 pie, 153 a rich one, 153 and parsley pie, 154 olive pie, 154 — suet pudding, 173 ——patties, 191 ——broth, vt ry nourishing for the sick, 328 Vegetable?, 199 to 211 - observations on dressing them, 199 —i — to boil them f reon, 200: in hard water, 00 how to preserve for the w inter, 210 — soup, 121 — another, 121 ■ — pie, 155 Venison,to choose, 27 — — to keep, 34 to dress, 34 , haunch,neck, and shoulder to roast, 35 ——— stewed -boulder, 35 — breast, 35 • the old currant sauce for, 338 Venison hashed, 36 Venison, to prepare for pas- ty, 193 pasty, 193 crust for, 182 to make a pasty of beef or mutton to eat as well as venison, 194 Verder or milk punch, 305 Vinegar, camp, 142 gooseberry, 142 raspberry, 273 7 raspberry vinegar water for the sick, 340 shallot. 142 sugar, 142 cueumher, 143 wine, 113 — whey for the sick. 340 Vingaret for cold fowl or meat, 142 . VT. _ Wafers, 284 »**, Wainscot, fine oak, % give a gloss to, 359 Walnuts, to pickle, 216 —— - —, another way, 216 Walnut ketchup of the finest sort, 218 Wash balls, to make. 349 Washes for stucco, 352 Water-cakes, 283 Water gruel, 3S7 .another way, 333 souchy, 18 Welsh pudding, 178 - rabbit, 244 ale, to brew, 693 Whey, 340 white wine whey for the sick, 340 vinegar and lemon wheys, 310 W'hite, to stain jellies, ices ot cakes, 238407 INDEX WMtehog'S puddings, 77 . sauce ir bechamel, 130 Whitings, to choose, 2 Whitings, to dry, (like had- dock), ’6 Widgeon to dress, 109 Wildfowl, to roast. 109 , sauce for, 133 ■ , another, 134 Windsor beans, fricasseed, 204 Wine, to refine, 296 , roll 236 , vinegar, 143 , mulled, 334 . another way, 334 —, to preserve strawber- ries in wine, 255 , remarks on English wines, 297 . a rich and pleasant wine, 297 , raapl cTry wine, 297 — • ot currant wine. 297; another way,298 — —. black currant wine.i very line, 298 v 1 Wine, cowslip wine, excel' lent, 299 , ginger wine, excel lent, 299; another way, 299 , elder wine, 300 , white very much like Frontinlac, 306 , clary wine, 300 , raisin wine, excellent 301 der,301 with ci- without cider, 303 , egg wine for the sick 289 Woodcocks, to dress, 109 Woollen, to preserve it from moths 354 Y. Yeast, to make, 287 , another way, 287 to preserve, 296 dumplings, 179 Yeliow, to stain jellies ices or cakes, 238 Yorksh ire ca ke; 292 ■ pudding, 177 THE END. Thumat Jo/iMim, Printer, Lttetey St,, Mane fun Ur.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. ID tP sO ^ 0 o ^ o JD £ <4-. D 1 c M — vi a <d .£ £ £ Vi L i2 3 O C 3 Pm c D E *—> <D •— H 13 o £ <u JQ U c .2 c3 .5? £ 3 u- o 2 G o u- O s a> c3 Q IT) cr 0 Deacidification Lamination /ISSUfi. . Japawae. Tlaujul £cp Solvents' ^ yt fv'bxXfctSS I \ D Z oh f]/\y\ cf/ ^ fvU</