The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Cl ass mark; COO(£R^ l\ (IT 010 22 5686Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21526412I I c f ^ ^ U V O APICIUS REDIVIVUS. THE COOK’S ORACLE: CONTAINING PRACTICAL RECEIPTS ROASTING, BOILING, FRYING, BROILING, VEGETABLES, FISH, HASHES, MADE DISHES,&c. &c. On the most Economical Plan for Private Families; ALSO, THE ART OF COMPOSING THE MOST SIMPLE, AND MOST HIGHLY FINISHED BROTHS, GRAVIES, SOUBS, SAUCES, AND FLAVOURING ESSENCES: The Quantity of each Article BEING ACCURATELY STATED by WEIGHT or MEASUREj THE HUMBLEST NOVICE MAY WORK WITH THE SAME CERTAINTY AS THE EXPERIENCED COOK. the result of actual experiments MADE IN THE KITCHEN OF A PHYSICIAN, FOB HIE PURPOSE OF COMPOSING A Culinary Code for the Rational Epicure, AND AUGMENTING THE ALIMENTARY ENJOYMENTS OF PRIVATE FAMILIES; COMBINING ECONOMY WITH ELEGANCE; AND SAVING EXPENSE TO HOUSEKEEPERS, AND TROUBLE TO SERVANTS. THE SECOND EDITION, CAREFULLY REVISED. LONDON: PRINTED FOR JOHN HATCIIAKD, PICCADILLY; AND SOLD BY MESSRS* SIMPKIN AND MARSHALL, STATIONERS’ COURT; UNDERWOODS, FLEET STREET; OGLE AND CO. IlOLBORN; OTRIDGE, 39, STRAND; AND STODART, 81, STRAND ; And by all Booksellers and Neu'smen in Town or Country.“ The main business of my book is to increase the comforts of moderate Families and moderate Fortunes, and I have taken as much pains to bring the Enjoyments and Indulgencies of the most Opulent, within reach of the middle ranks of Society, as I have in directing the pre- paration of those elaborate made dishes, and piqtiante relishes, the most ingenious and ac- complished ‘ Officers of the Mouth’ have in- vented for the amusement of profound Palaticians, and thorough bred Grands Gourmands of the first magnitude. These are so composed as to be as agreeable and useful to the stomach, as they are inviting to the appetite; nourishing without being inflammatory, and savoury without being surfeiting, endeavouring to hold the balance even, between the agreeable and the wholesome, and the Epicure and the Economist.” Vide Rudiments of Cookery, page 120. HNIVEflSiTV LIBRARY,TASTEFUL PALATES, KEEN APPETITES, AND CAPACIOUS STOMACHS: THE FOLLOWING RECEIPTS, COMPOSED FOR THEIR RATIONAL RECREATION, ARE RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED,rtt- » w ■i ,<iTi; ^.\ 4.I.M ' . • " ' ■ .-I'.. ^ h < * i it .( iiftMWW I y .|m<* l->N qj ■• ',M01 '' .a » iVi I fS tl4‘ 4 li^. 4 «t>^DP scrap end O . 5 Ttte whole ],e<i „o. lol MAKKETING TABLE. , Beef The relative/ value of eueh JoirW. The prices wei'c fured (Jaji:1.18l7J hy an emi/unt Butch/r who sells an article of first/mto (puildv. Sc though the piicn/ should vaty, tlvcy relative value will be/ exJuhited. THX Eixn (QUARTER OF BEEF pec Ib. 1 Sd Lijae p . 9 2 Hump .0.9 .3 Edae Hone .o. o 4 BitUock O . 7 .5 Mouse ])°. o . (5 fi Veiny Fure- O . 7 7 Thick Ftimk O. l) ft Thin D'.' D . P', 9 Z(V/ o . 2j- VE xVE }n»C Ui. 1 J.rn'n , hest curt ,o . n 2 7)!' chump end a . ]\ .•% Fi//e.t ] . 1 -1 Knuckle. Hind o . 7 ;') Neck,hest end o , Ji {j D? scroll end o . ft The whole Neck i) . s)^ 7 Btodc JSone o .ui 8 Breast, hest end o. 11 9 DC brisket end o.io JO Knuckle, Fore 0.7 The Head TBE Fore Quarter 10 Fore mb. 6 Itihs prr p. 11 Middle. J)° Tl" ... n 12 (linckDP 3 UP. 13 Miouatrr. Mutton Fleer 0. M •V 2: .0. 15 Ciod .0. 16 ^cch., or SUckiiKj Pirrr .... -O . 17 Shin... - ^.0 . IR Cheek 31T T O per n». 1 Lea .» 2 J„oin, best end _...V o . 8 .1 DP chump end ■ 1 Neck, best end o . 7 () Shoulder. .0.7 7 Jhrast .0 . ;> Head - The Chine, two Loins The Saddle, two Necks ^ ^ The JJaundi is a Lea, 1 and part ot'the l.om ■ I«1M Mpli P H P I’ A C E. Till: following Receipts are not a mere mar- rowless collection of shreds, and patches, and cuttings, and pastings, from obsolete works, but a l)oii(t fide register of practical facts, accumulated by a perseverance not to be sub- dued, or evaporated, by the igniferous terrors of a roasting fire in the dog-days. The Receipts have been written down by the fire- side, “ with a spit in one hand, and a pen in the other,” in defiance of the condiined odori- ferous and califacieiit repellents, of Roasting and Boiling, Frying and Broiling; the author submitting to a labour no preceding Cookery- Book-maker, perhaps, ever attempted to en- counter; having eaten each Receipt, before he set it down in his book. As they have all been heartily welcomed hy a suflicicntly well educated Ihdate, and a rather fastidious .Sto- mach; perhaps this certificate of the eatabilily of the res])ective preparations, will partly apo^.PREFACE. logize for my Book containing a smaller number of them, than some preceding writers on this gratifying subject, have transcribed, for the profit and amusement of “ every man’s master,” the STOMACH*. I have endeavoured to describe every article, in so plain and circumstantial a manner, as I hope will be easily understood, even by the amateur, who is wholly unacquainted with the practical part of Culinary concerns. Old house- keepers may think I have been tediously minute on many points, which may appear trifling, be- cause former writers on this subject seem to have considered the Rudiments of Cookery quite unworthy of attention. But these little delicate distinctions, constitute all the difl’er- ence between a common table and an elegant one, and are not trifles to the novice, who must learn them either from the communica- tion of others, or blunder on till his own slowly-accumulating and dear-bought expe- rience teaches him. A wish to save trouble and time to young inexperienced House- keepers and Cooks, and to bring the enjoy- * “ Hie Stomach is tlie grand organ of the human system, upon tlic state of wliich, all the powers and feelings of the individual depend.”—See Hu.nteRs (.’ulim, page IS.PR EFArp. ments and indiilgeiicics of the most opulent witliin reach of the most moderate fortunes, were tlie motives for publishing this l)ook; and I could accomplish it only liy supposing the reader, when he first opens my book, to be as ignorant of Cookery, as I was when 1 first thought of writing on the svdjject. I have done my best to contribute to the coml'ort of my fellow creatures; and I hope, by a careful attention to the directions herein given, tlie most ignorant will easily learn to prepare food, not only in an agreeable and wholesome, but in an elegant and economical manner. The cardinal virtues of Cookery, “ ci.eax- I.INESS, FRUGALITY, XOURISIIMFNT, AND PA LATEABLENESS,” preside over each prepa- ration ; for 1 have not presumed to insert a single composition, without previously obtaining the “ imprimatur” of an enlightened and most indefatigable “ COMMITTEE OF TASTE” (composed of the most persevering and profound Palaticians, and thorongh-bred granus (gour- mands of the first magnitude,) whose perse- vering and cordial co-operation T cannot too highly praise; and here do I most gratefully record the unremitting zeal they manifested during their arduous progress of [iroving the J! 2I’REFACi:. respective Recipes, who were so truly philo- sophically and disinterestedly regardless of the wear and tear of teeth and stomach, that their labour appeared a pleasure to them. This laudable perseverance, lias enabled me to give the most inexperienced amateur an unerring guide, how to exeite as much pleasure as pos- sible on the palate, with as little trouble as possible to the principal viscera. In short, as I have already intimated, every attention has been paid in directing the pro- portions of the following Compositions, not merely to make them inviting to the Appetite, but agreeable and useful to the Stomach; nourishing without being inflammatoi'y, and savoury without being surfeiting. I have written for those who make nourish- ment the chief end of eating*, and do not * Although pleasing the palate be the luaiu end in most books of Cookery, it is my aim to blend the tooth- some with the wholesome; for, after all, however the hale Gourmand may at first diti'er from me in opinion, the latter, is tlie chief concern ; since if he be even so entirely devotcil to the pleasure of eating, as to think of no other, still the care of his health becomes part of that; if he is sick, he cannot reli.sh Ids food. “ The term Gourmand or Epicure, has been strangely perverted; it has been conceived .synonimous with a gluttony like that of the great cater of Rent; or a fasti-PRETACE. desire to provoke appetite beyond Uie power and necessities of nature ; proceeding;, ho\vcver, on tlie purest Epicurean principles, of indulging tlie Palate, as far as it can be done, without injury or olfence to the Stomach. The plea- sures of the table, have always been highly appreciated, and carefully cultivated in all countries and in all ages; and, in spite of the Stoics, every one will allow tlu'y are the first we enjoy, the last we leave, and those we taste the ol'tenest. A sound Stomach may be said to be the mainspring of all our comfort; and (lions appetite only to ho excited by fantastic dainties, as the brains of peacocks or parrots, tlie tongues of thrushes and nightingales, or the teats of a lactiferous sow. Ill the liberal acceptation which I give to the teiiii Epieiire, it means only the person who relishes his food cooked according to scientific prinei|)les; that is to say, so prejiarcd, that the |ialate is delighted, rendered of easy solution in the stoniatdi, and ultimately contributing to health; exciting him, as an animal, to the vigorous enjoyment of those leereatioiis and duties, physical and intellectual, which constitute the ha|)pi- ness and dignity of his nature.” For this etymological illustration, I am indebted to my scientific iiiciid, Apicius Cadiiis, junr., with whose erudite observations several of the pages of this work arc enriched, as will he understood when the signature A. C. junr. is allixed. K 3PREFACE. there would be no difficulty in proving that it influences (much more than people in general imagine) all our actions; the destiny of nations (says an ingenious French Author) has often depended upon the more or less laborious digestion of a prime minister*. The great philosopher Fythagoras, in his Golden Verses, shows himself to have been extremely nice in eating, and makes it one of his chief principles of morality to “ abstain from beans.” Our gi'eat English moralist, Dr. Johnson, (says Boswell,) was a man of very nice discernment in the science of Cookery, and talked of good eating with uncommon satisfaction. “ Some people,” said he, “ have a foolish way of not minding, or pretending not to mind what they eat; for my part, I mind my belly very studiously and very carefully, and 1 look upon it, that he who does not mind his belly, will hardly mind any thing else.” Mr. B. adds, “ 1 never knew a man who relished good eating more than he did; when at table, he was totally absorbed in the business of the moment: nor would he, unless in very * “ He that would liave a clear head, must have a clcati stomach, says old Cheyne. —See his Essay on Health, !(c. page 34,I’KIiF.ACn. high company, say one word, or even pay the least attention to what was said by others, till he had satisfied his appetite*.” The Receipts, are the results of Experiments, carefullymade, and accurately and circumstan- tially detailed ; the time rajuisitejur drcs'.ing being slated, and the quantities oj the various articles con- tained in each composition being caref ully set down in number, weight, and measure\\ a precision never The fact is, that tliis >;icat man, had found out, tliat animal ami intellectual vigour, are much more entirely dependent on each other, than is commonly understood by common men ; especially, in those constitutions, whose ehylypoetic and digestive organs are rapricious and easily put out of tutjc, or absorb the “ materia vitse” so indolently, that it is only now and then, tliat the “ sensoriiim commune” vibrates with the full tone of accurately considcrative and creative energy. We wish, the restorative process was performed by us poor mortals, in as easy and simple a manner, as liaron Munchausen says it is in the cooking animals in the moon, who “ lose “ no time at their meals, as tlicy open their left side, “ and i)lacc the whole (puiTility at once in their stomach, “ then shut it again till the .same day in the next month; “ for they never indulge themselves with food more than ‘‘ twelve times in a year; — all but gluttons and epicures “ must prefer this method to ours.” — Vide Gulliver Revival, 12mo. 1780'. Kearsley. Page 188. t Ihe Weights are Avoirdupois; the Measure, the graduated glass used by Apothecaries, which appeared more accurate and convenient than any, the pint beingPREFACE. before attempted in Cookery books, but which I found indispensable, from the impossibility of guessing the quantities intended by such obscure expressions as have been usually employed for this purpose in former works ; for instance; a little bit, or a good bit of butter, a handful of this, and a nip or pinch of that, a sprinkling of salt, a shake of pepper, a squeeze of lemon, a dash of vinegar, a dust of flour, are the constant phrases; and season it to your palate, (meaning the cook’s,) is another form of speech; now, if she has any, it is very unlikely that it is in unison with that of her employers, as, by con- tinually sipping piquante relishes, it becomes blunted and insensible, and soon loses the faculty of appreciating delicate flavours, so that every thing is done at random. These Culinary technicals* are so differently divided into sixteen ounees, and tlie ounce into ei"Iit drachms : by a wine-glass, is to be understood two ounces ot apothecaries’ litjuid measure ; by a large or table spoontui, half an ounce ; by a small or tea spoonful, a drachm, or half a (piartcr of an ounce, i. e. nearly equal to two drachms avoirdupois. At Hancock’s glass warehouse, in Cockspiir .Street, Charing Cross, you may get measures divided into tea and table spoons. No cook should he without one, who wishes to be regular in her business. * “ In the present language of Cookery, there has been a W'ofiil (Irparltire from the simplicitv of ourP U HP Act. Gsliiuated by dift’erenl cooks, and “ the rule of thumb” is so extremely indefinite, that if tlic same dish be dressed by two persons, it will ancestors; such a farrago of unappropriate and uniucau- ing terms, many corrupted from the Freiicli, otliers dis- guised from the Italian, some misapplied iVom tlie German, wliile many arc a disgrace to the Knglish. Wliat can any i)crson suppose to l)c tiie meaning of « sliouUItT of lamh in ejiigram, unless it were a jioor dish, for a peuuyless poet? Aspect offish, would appear calcu- lated for an Astrologer, and shouhler <f mutton suri>rised, designed tor a shcep-stcaler.”—A. C. juu. The following specimen of the unaccountably whim- sical Ilarlccjuinade of Foreign Kitchens is from “ La Chapelle,” Modern Cook, Loudon, 1744. “ A 'Fiirkcy,” in the shape of “ a Football,” or “ a Hedge-hog.”—“ A Shoulder of Mutton,” in the shape of a“ Bee-Hive.” — “ Entree of Figeons,” in “ the form of a Spider,” or Sun-l'asbion, or “ in the form of a Frog,” or, in “ the form of the Moon.”— Or, “ to make a Pig taste like a \Vild Boar:” Take a living Pig, and let him swallow' the following drink, viz. boil together in vinegar and water, some losemary, thyme, sweet basil, bayleaves, and sage; when you have let him swallow this, immediately whip him to death, and then roast him. But the most extraordinary of all the Culinary Kccei|)ts that have been under my eye, is the following diabolically cruel directions ofMizald’.s. “ How to mast and eat a (loose alive." — 'Fake a GOOSE, or a DUCK, or some such lively creature, (hut a (loose is best of all for this purpose,) pull off all her feather.s, only the head ami neck must be spared : then make aPREFACE. generally be so unlike, that nobody would imagine they had worked from the same direc- tions ; nor will they assist a person who has fire round about her, not too close to her, that tlie smoke do not choke her, and that the fire may not burn licr too soon ; nor too far off, that slie may not escape free: within tlic circle of the fire let there be set small cups and pots full of water, wherein salt and honey are mingled; and let there he set also chargers full of sodden apples, cut iuto small pieces in the dish. The Goose must be alt larded, and basted over with butter, to make her the more fit to be eaten, and may roast the better ; put then fire about her, but do not make too much haste, when as you see her begin to roast; for by walking about, and Hying here and there, being cooped in by the fire that stops her Way out, the unwearied Goose is kept in; she will fall to drink the water to quench her thirst, and cool her heart, and all her body, and the apple sauce will make her dung, and cleanse and empty her. And when she roasteth, and consumes inwardly, always wet her head and heart with a wet sponge ; and when you see her giddy with running, and begin to stumble, her heart wants moisture, and she is roasted enough. Take her up, set her before your guests, and she will cry as you cut off any part from her, and will be almost eaten up before she he dead: it is very pleasant to behold!!! ”—Scc Wecker’s Sccrcis of Nature, in folio, London, 1660, pp. i<i8, 309. fVe sujiposc Mr. Mizald stole this receipt from the kitchen ot his Internal hlajesty; probably, it might have been one of the dishes the devil ordered when he invited Nero and Caligula to a feast. — A. C. juu.PREFACE. not served a regular apprenticeship in the Kitchen, more than reading “ Robinson Crusoe” would enable a sailor to steer safely from Eng- land to India. These generalizing expressions in Cookerj', arc the more surprising, as the confectioner is regu- larly attentive, in the description of his prepara- tions, to give the exact f|uantities, though his business, compared to cookery, is as unimportant, as the ornamental is inferior to the useful. The maker of blanchmangc, custards, and triHes, and the endless and useless collection of pretty play- things for the palate, is scrupulously exact, even to a grain, in his ingredients ; whilst Cooks affect to be most unintelligibly indefinite, although they are intrusted with the administration of our food, vpon the proper preparation of xehich, all our poxeers of liodj/ and mind depend; their energy, being in- variably, in the ratio, of the performance of the restorative process, i. e. the (piantity, quality, and perfect digestion of what we eat and drink ; and a sufficient portion of sound sleep, “ the chief nourisher in life’s feast, great Nature’s second course.” Unless the Stomach be in crood humour, every part of the machinery of life must vibrate with languor. "VVe may compare the human frame, to a watch, of which, the heart is the main spring.PR EFACE. the stomach the regulator, and what we put into it, the key, by which the machine is set agoing; according to the quantity, quality, and proper digestion of what we eat and drink, will be the pace of the pulse, and the action of the system in general; and when a due proportion, is preserved between the quantum of exercise, and that of excitement, all goes well : if the machine be disordered, the same expedients are employed for its readjustment, as are used by the watch maker; it must be carefully cleaned, and then judiciously oiled. Thus does the general health always, and the very life often, of invalids, and tliose wlio have weak and infirm stomachs, depend upon the skill of tlie cook. Our forefathers were so sensible of this, that in days of yore, no man of consequence, thouglit of making a day's journey without taking liis “ iUogi.^/cr Coquo- riim” with him. The rarity of this talent, in a high degree is so well understood, that besides very considerable pecuniary conqiensa- tion, his Majesty’s first and second Cooks are now Es([iiires by their office; and we have every reason to suppose they were persons of equal dignity heretofore. In Dr. Pcgjge’s “ Forme of Cury,” 8vo. London, 1780, we read, that when Cardinal Otto, the Pope's1> li li F A C E. Legate, was at Oxford, A.D. 1248, his bio- ther officiated as “ Magister Coquhne." This important post, has always been held as a situation of high trust and confidence; and the “ Magnus Coqinis, ” Chief Cook, or Master-Kilchiner, has, time immemorial, been an officer of considerable dignity, in the pa- laces of Princes. I believe it is a generally received opinion, which the experience of every individual can confirm, that the food we fancy most, appears to sit easiest on the stomach; the functions of digestion, must go on more merrily, when exer- cised by food we relish, than when we eat merely because it is the usual hour of dining, or swallow something out of necessity, to amuse the gastric' juice, and “ lull the grinding stomach’s hungry rage.” Instinct, speaks pretty plainly, to those whose instruments of digestion are in a delicate and impaired state, abd commonly pleads with more perfect truth (for those materials they stand most in need of,) than any dietetic rules that can be contrived. To affirm that such a thing is wholesome, or unwholesome, without considering the subject in all the circumstances to which it bears relation, and the unaccountable idiosyncracies of parti- cPREFACE. cular constitutions, is, with submission, talking nonsense. Every man must consult his Stomach ; whatever agrees with that perfectly well, is whole- some for him, whilst it continues to do so, when- ever natural appetite calls for food. Celsus spoke very sensibly when he said, “ that a healthy man under his own government, ought not to tie himself up by strict rules, nor to abstain from any sort of food ; that he ought sometimes to fast and sometimes to feast.” When ap- plied to eating, nothing is more true than that “ Bmarvm remm, cnmiictudo pcssima est.” The author of this work wishes he had leisure to devote more time to the subject. An ingenious chemist, and an intelligent cook, might form a very complete work, by taking for their text Dr. George Pearson’s admirably arranged catalogues of Food, Drink, and Seasoning ; the most comprehensive abstract of this subject we have ever seen. This epitome was printed for his Lectures on Therapeutics, &c. which the author attended in l801. No regimen of life can be laid down that will suit every body: “ Try all (lie Iioiiiities of this fertile globe, There is not siieh a salutary food .A.s suits will) every stomach." 1)r. \misTRONT.’S rl’ t I’/Pvfxcrr.'n^ Ilra’lii, hook ii. line Ija.PKEl'ACli. i No food is so delicious that it pleases all jjalates; and nothing, can be more correct, than the old adage, “ one man’s meat is another man’s poison.” It would be as difficult, for a Laj)lander to convince our good citizens, that train oil, is a more elegant relish, than their favourite turtle, as for the former, to fancy, that Birch’s or Angell’s soup, can be as agreeable, as the grease and garbage, which custom, has taught him, to call delicious. The Cook, therefore, should be extremely cau- tious of seasoning high, and leave it to the Eaters, to add the condiments, according to their own ])alate and fancy : for this purpose, “ llie Maga- zine of Taste,” or “ Sauce-box*,” will be found an invaluable acquisition, as its contents, will instantaneously, produce any flavour that may be desired. 1 have a very good reason to give in support of my doctrine, that what the appetite desires most, the stomach will digest best which is, that mastica- tion t, the first act of the important process of * Vide No. 463. t See the third uiid following pages ot the ninth chapter of the “ Rudiments of Cookery.” t To chew long, and leisurely, is the only way to ex- tract the quintessence of our food, to completely enjoy the taste of it, and to render it easily convertible into C 2PREl-Act. digestion, is then more perfectly performed; be- cause, as we naturally detain upon our palate, those things which please it, the food we relish most, is consequently most broken down by chewing, and most intimately incorporated with the saliva. To encourage the best performance of the machinery of mastication, the Cook must take care that her dinner is not only well dressed, but laudable chyle, by the facility it gives to the gastric juices to dissolve it without trouble. The pleasure of the palate, and the health of the stomach, are equally promoted by this salutary habit, which all should be taught to accpiire in their infancy. The more tender the meat is, the more we may cat of it. From thirty to forty (according to the tenderness of the meat) may be given as the mean number of munches, that solid meat requires, to prepare it for its jouruey down the red lane, less will be sufficient for tender, delicate, and easily digestible white meats. The sagacious gourmatid, must calculate this precisely, and not waste his preci- ous moments in useless jaw-work, or invite an indiges- tion by neglecting mastication. I cannot give any rules for this, as it depends so much on the strength or weak- ness of the subject, especially the state of the Teeth and maxillary glands; every one ought to ascertain the con- dition ot these useful working tools, and to use them with jrroportionale diligence is an indispensable exer- cise which every rational epicure will cheerfully per- form, who has a proper regard for the welfare of hisc 3 niElACE. that oacli dish, he sent, to table, witii its proper accoinpaiiinients, in the neatest, and most ele- gant manner. Remember, that to excite the good opinion of the eye, is the first stop towards awakening the appetite. Decoration, is much more rationally employed, in rendering a plain, wholesome, and nutritious dish inviting, than in the elaborate cmbcllish- stoniadi. Tlic Teeth should be cleaned after each meal uilh a “ Tooth I’reseiiveu,” (i. e. a very soft brush,) and tlicn rinsed with tepid water—especially, ncvci- iKglecl this at night; nothing destroys the Teeth so fast as sidfering animal food to stick between them. It is the rage now with many Dentists to recommend brushes so hard, that they fetch blood like a lancet wherever they touch, and instead of “ Teeth 1’reseuvers,” may be called very properly “ Gum Bleeders.” Mastication is the source of all good digestion ; willi it, almost any thing may be put into any stomach with impunity: without it, digestion must be always diffi- cult, and fretpiently impossible : and be it remembered, it is not merely what we cat, but what we digest well, that nourishes us. The sagacious gourmand is ever mindful of his motto, ‘‘ Muslicate, dcnlicatc, chump, grind, and swallow;" The four first acts of which he knows he must perform well, before he dare attempt the fifth.” N.B. Patent Masticators, may be had of Palmer, culler, in St. James’s-strcct.FREI ACT. ments which are crowded about custards and trifles. ^ Not only the health and comfort of the family, but so many other things, are of necessity, intrust- ed to their discretion, that honest and frugal Cooks who know their business, and conscientiously study the interest of their employers, deserve every encouragement, and no reward or indul- gence is too great for them; and if you are not liberal enough, to give it to them in money, you invite them, to levy contributions on every article confided to their care; therefore do not be surprised, should they now and then strip your meat of its fat, crib your candles, and cab- bage your potatoes, to increase the weight of the grease-pot. Depend upon it, “ true self- love and social are the same “ do as you would be done by give those you are obliged to trust, every inducement to be honest, and no temptations to play tricks. “ It is impossible, for a Cook in a large family, to attend to the business of the kitchen with any degree of certain perfection, if employed in other household concerns. It is a service of such importance, and so difficult to perform even tolerably well, that it is sufficient to engross the entire attention of one person at the least. Yet, this is a maxim, which is neither understoodPKEl-ACE. nor admired in some families, where the Cook is expected to be a house servant also, and Coals are meted out to her by the quart, and Butter by the Pat, &c. Nevertheless, these igno- rant and unreasonable masters and mistresses, are surprised, if most of their ragouts, and sauces, &c. are spoiled ; and the roasts either burnt up, or not half done; but how can it be otherwise, when the Cook is obliged to be the slave of the bell ? ” &c. as well as of the spit. A good Cook, has really cpiite enough to do if she attends perfectly to her own business ; and those who wish to have their tables well served, must not recpiire any more of her, and are fortu- nate mortals if they regularly obtain this. Mis- tress of her time, she will devote the whole of it to her art; rising with the sun in winter, and by six in summer, her first care will be to set every thing to rights in her kitchen, see that all her utensils are perfectly clean, and arrange them in their proper places. This done, she will put on her soup-kettle, and will not leave it, till she has well skimmed it: she will then go early to mar- ket, to have the opportunity of selecting from those shops which have the best choice, and charge reasonably. On her return home, she will prepare the dinner according to the bill of fare which she has settled with her master thePKEFACE. evening before; i. e. her made dishes, ragouts, &c. &c. for the second course; lard and trim the roasts ; and, in a word, get every thing ready in time, so that the service may not meet with any obstruction. When this time comes, she seasons her soup, garnishes all her dishes, and disposes them in the order they are to appear in. Besides understanding the management of the spit, the stewpans, and the rolling-pin, a com- plete Cook must know how to go to market, write legibly, and keep accounts; she must, moreover, have a full share of cleanliness, good temper, and activity; never give herself airs, but receive, as the highest testimonies of her em- ployers’ regard, whatever observations may be made on her work, as the most unequivocal proofs of their desire to make her thoroughly understand their taste, and retain her in their service. She must entirely enter into all their plans of economy, and endeavour to make the most of every thing-, as well for her own honour, as her master’s profit, and will take care that the meat which is to make its appearance a second time in the parlour, is handsomely cut with a sharp knife, and put away on -a clean dish. Those in the Parlour will best ensure this attention from their servants, by setting them aPREFACE. fi,ood example, by cutting bread, meat, cheese, tic. fairly, and not hacking and mangling it, as if t hey had not so much consideration for those in the Kitchen, as a good Sportsman has for his Dogs*. * I once htartl a gentle hint on tliis subject, given to a gluttonous gorinaiulizer, wlio by looking too long at a Stilton cheese, was at last so completely over- eoine by his inicioscopic eye exciting his imgo- veniahle appetite, that he became (piite unconscious of every thing but the tidily object of bis contemplation, and began to pick out, in no small portions, the primest parts his eye could select from the centre of the Cheese. The good-natured Founder of the Feast, highly pleased at seeing the ecstacies each morsel created in its passage over the palate of the enraptured Uminnand, thus ciieou- raged the perseverance of his guest—“ Cut away, m3' dear sir, cut away, use no Ceremony, I pray : I beg you will pick all the best of my Cheese—the rind, ami the rotten, will do very well for my wife and family.” The guest who wishes to ensure a hearty welcome and frequent invitation at the board of hosj)itality, instead of unblushingly demanding of the fair hostess, that the prime “ tit bit” of every dish be put on his plate, must receive, (if not with pleasure, or even con- tent), with the liveliest expressions of thankfulness, whatever is presented to liiin. If he does not like his fare, he may console himself with the reflection, that he need not expose his month to the like mortification again; but mercy to the feelings of the mistress of the mansion, must forbid his then appearing otherwise than absolutely delighted with it, notwithstanding it may bePREFACE. In those houses where the Cook enjoys the confidence of her employer so much as to be intrusted with the care of the store-room,* liis extreme antipathy. If he likes it ever so little, he will lind occasion to congratulate himself on the advan- tage his digestive organs will derive from his making a moderate dinner, and some consolation from contem- plating how superior a relish he is creating for the fol- lowing meal, anticipating the (to him) rare and deli- cious zest of (that best sauce) good appetite, and unre- strained indulgence of his gormandizing fancies at the chop-house he frequents. Never intrust a Bachelor with the important office of Carver, or place him within reach of a Sauce-boat. These Chop-house Cormorants, who “ Criticise your wine, and analyze your meat. Yet on plain pudding deign at home to eat,” are generally tremendously officious in serving out the loaves and fishes of other people, are the terror of all good Housewives, and to obtain their favourite Cut will so unmercifully mangle your Joints, that a dainty dog would hardly get a meal from them after, which managed by the considcrative hands of an old House- keeper, would furnish a decent dinner for a large family.” — Vide “ Almanach dcs Gourmands." * In well regulated Private families, the most conve- nient custom seems to be, that the Cook keep a house- book, containing an account of the miscellaneous arti- cles she purchases — and the butcher's, baker's, butter- man’s, green-grocer’s, tishmongcr's, milkman’s and wash- ing bills are brought in every Monday; these it is the duty of the Cook to examine, before she presents them toPREFACE. Avliich is not very common, she unll keep an e.iaci accou7tt of every t/ivig as it comes in, for her own satisfaction, as well as that of her Gm[)lo;^cr, and will not trust the key of this room to any one; she will also keep an account of every thing she takes from it, and manage with as much consi- deration and frugality as if it was her own pro- perty she was using, endeavouring to disprove the adage, that “ plenty makes waste.” The honesty of a Cook must be above all suspicion ; she should obtain, and, in spite of the number- less temptations that daily offer to bend her from it, preserve a character of spotless Inte- grity, remembering that it is the fair price of Independence, which all wish for, but none without it can hope for ; only a fool, or a madman, u'ill be so silly or so crazy, as to expect to reap, -xhere he has been too idle to sozc. “ If we now take a review of the cpialifica- lier employer every Tuesday mornin" to be discliarged. See “ Ten Minutes’ Advice on the Management of Income, Ilatcliard, Piccadilly, 1810;” and Dr. Triis- ler’s ‘‘ Domestic Management, or the Art of managing a Family;” and by tlie same author, anotlier work well worth the purchase of Young Housekeepers, called, “ The Honours of the Table, or the Art of Carving; ' (he latter has been copied in a mutilated state into almost every Cookery Book that has been made during the last thirty years.preface. “ tions’ we liave set down as indispensable, to “ form that highly estimable domestic, “ a com- “ plete, good Cook,” we shall find (says the “ Epicurean Editor of the Almanack des Gour- “ mands,) how very few deserve that name. The “ majority of those who set np for masters and “mistresses of this art, are of mean ability; “ selfish, and pilfering every thing they can; “ others add indolence to insolence; those who * “ She must be endowed with a full portion of com- mon sense; quick and strong of sight; her hearing most acute, that she may be sensible when the contents of her vessels bubble, although they be closely covered, and that she may be alarmed before the pot boils over : her auditory nerve ought to discriminate (when several saucepans arc in operation at the same time,) the sim- mering of one, the ebullition of another, and the full toned wabbling of a third. “ It is imperiously requisite that her organ of smell be highly susceptible of the various effluvia, that her nose may distinguish the perfection of aromatic ingre- dients, and that in animal substances it shall evince a suspicious accuracy between tenderness aud putrefac- tion : above all, her olfactories should be tremblingly alive to mustincss and empyrcuina. “ It is from the exejuisite sensibility of her palate, that wc admire and judge of the Cook; and from the alliance between the olfactory and sapid organs it will be seen, that their perfection is indispensable.”— A. C. junr.rREi'ACF,. “ iindersland tlieir business, (which arc by far the “ smallest number,) are too often, either most “ ridiculously saucy, or insatiably thirsty : in a “ word, a good subject, in this class, is a rara “ avis indeed, and too often l)rings to our me- “ mory the old adage—“ God sends meat,” ‘‘ the “ Devil sends Cooks.” Happy the master who finds a servant, wlio with a proper knowledge of her business unites a zeal and pride to perform it to the best of hei' abilities, and is, moreover, honest and cleanly : for the rest, he must be indulgent; and such a servant, a very little exj)erience in life, will teach him, it is for his own interest, and com- fort, to treat with some consideration. Give her liberal wages*, and treat her with kindness, ’ l^rolit, sweetens labour, aiul ifyoii wisli to be well served, give yoiu Cook good wages — better, tlian are generally given — if you will not, you need only expect to get a servant who is not worth having, or who will only stay with you till she eau better herself. When you consider, that a good servant, eats, no more, than a bad one, and how niueh, a Cook to whom the con- duct of the kitchen is confided, can save yon, by her management — surely, no housekeeper will deem it an unwise speculation, to invite, the honesty and industry of their domestics, by setting them an example of liberality — at least, show them, that “ according to their pains, shall be their gains," Those Economists, DPREFACE. but without familiarity. When you make out the bill of fare for the next day, do not pass any dish without observation, but never betray the slightest discontent at any other time — (unless the other domestics think the Cook is in favour with her master, it is impossible she can command those in his kitchen,) qualifying your censure by telling her, “ Tlie reason, whj’ I point out faults so small, Is, ’cause ’tis better to have none at all.” Dr. King’s Art of Cookery. who do not like this doctrine, must put up with such poor creatures, as dire necessity drives to them, and the mistress of the house, be content, to do half the work, herself. Ye, who think, that to protect and encourage Virtue, is the best preventive from Vice, give your female servants liberal wages, and let your charity begin at home—not, that (if after doing your duty there, your hearts still swell big with benevolence,) I have any objection, to see, your names ornamenting the lists of subscribers, to Foundling Hospitals, and Female Penitentiaries. Good mistresses make good servants ; and on tlic contrary, bad mistresses make bad servants. I asked a Cook once, who liad lived some years in her place, how she could think of sending up a dinner so ill- dressed, when (having lived with me) I knew she was capable of dressing it better : her answer was, she had no satisfaction, in taking pains, to dress a dinner well, for lier mistress had neither sincll nor ia.ste. It is the connoisseur who makes the artist. — Vide Domestic Management. Symonds, (52, M'ardour-strcet, .Soho, 8vo. l>age !!.PREFACE. Take every opportunity of encouraginp; licr. Due praise, is the most agreeable reward a woman can receive, and more gratifying than pecuniary compensation; and it is the way to make a faithful servant, who will be a treasure. If you arc a master, do not deprive yourself of a good servant, for a slight otfence; if you are a servant, do not throw yonrsclf out of a good place, for a slight allVont. I did not presume, to offer any observations on the subject, till 1 had carefully perused the works of preceding Cookery Book makers, and submitted (with no small pains,) to a patient and attentive consideration of every preceding work, connected with the subject, that I could meet with. Most of these books* vary but little * Sir Thomas Elyot, Cookeric 1539 The Good Hiisives Haiidmuid 1550 Dawson’s Good Huswife’s Jewell 1610 Tlie Philosopher's liampiet 1633 The Complete Cook 1663 The Court and Eiteheu of Elizabeth 166-t May's Aecomplished Cook 166,5 Sir Kenelm Itif'by’s Cookery 1669 Countessc of Kent’s Choiee .Seerets, 6ic. 1671 Tile True Gentleman’s Delight 1671 Muriel’s two Rooks of Cookerie and Carving • • • • 1673 Cookery dissected by Win. Kabisba 1673 Kitchen Physick 1675 D 2PREFACr. from each other, except in the prefatory matter: cutting and pasting seem to have been much Hannali Wooley’s Rare Receipts 1684 Tile Accomplisli’d Ladies Deliglit 1686 The Kitchin Pliysician 1688 The Complete Servant Maid 1691 Thos. Tryon’s Seventy-five noble Dishes 1696 The Compleat Cook’s Guide 1701 The Cook’s Vade Mecum 1705 Hall’s Royal Cookery 1719 The Queen’s Do. 1709 Dr. Salmon’s Cookery 1710 Incomparable Secrets in Cookery 1710 The Com])leat Cook 1710 The Court and Country Cook 1712 Lamb’s Royal Cookery 1726 Howard’s Cookery 1726 Carter’s System of Cookery 1730 Jlrs. Eales’ Receipts 1733 Smith’.s Cookery 1734 Dr. King’s Art of Cookery in Verse 1740 -Antient Cookery from a MS. in the Library of the Royal Society Bailey’s Cookery 1736 Three hundred Receipts in Cookery 1734 Kidder’s Receipts for the use of his Scholars 1730 Directions for Housekeeping and Cookery 1741 The Family Piece 1741 The Ladies’ Companion 1743 Adam’s Luxury and Eve's Cookery 1744 La Chapcllc’s Modern Cook 17.34 Mrs. Glasse’s Art of Cookery 17.37PREFACE. otteiier employed than the pen aiul ink; any one who has occasion to refer to two or three of The Cook’s Cookery anti Coninicnts, on Mrs. Glasse 1754 Bradley’s Country Honsewifc 1753 Martha Bradley’s Britisli Housewife 1755 Harrison’s Family Cook 1751 Mrs. Fhillips’ Cookery 1758 Verral’s Cookery 1759 Primitive Cookery 1767 Clermont’s Cookery 1776 Sarah Harrison’s Housekeeper’s Pocket Book .•• 1777 Sarah Jackson’s Cook Director 1755 Pegge's Forme of Cury, compiled by the Master Cooks A. D. 1390 1780 jMason’s Cookery 1780 Dalrymple’s Cookery 1781 iMontagne’s Cookery 1781 Kellet’s Cookery 1780 The Complete Housewife 1790 Brigg’s Cookery 1791 Moxon’s Cookery 1790 tVarner’s Antitpiitates Culinana', 4to. 1791 Frazer’s Cookery 1791 Cole’s Cookery 1791 The French Family Cook (a translation of La Cnisiniere Boiirgeoise) 1793 Borella’s Housekeeper’s Guide 1780 Henderson’s Cookery 1790 C-ollingwood anil tVilliam’s Cookery ISiOl Dr. Pearson’s arranged Catalogues of Food, Drink, &:r.. 1801 IMolland’s Cookery 1808 n .'iPREl'ACE. them, will find the receipts almost always “ verbatim et literatim equally unintelligible to Melroe’s Cookery 1810 Frugal Housewife IBll Macdonald’s Family Cook 1808 Farley’s Cookery 1811 Hunter’s Culina 1807 Smith’s Female Economist 1810 Simpson’s System of Cookery 1813 Domestic Cookery 1813 Domestic Receipts 1810 Nutt’s Royal Cook 1809 Millington’s Cookery 1805 Raffald’s Cookery 1806 Martin’s English Housekeeper 1795 Burford’s Complete Instructor 1816 Reynolds’s Professed Cook 1815 Young’s Epicure 1815 Mrs. Carter’s Frugal Housewife 1810 Mrs. Powell’s Art of Cookery 1811 Mrs. Fisher’s English Cook 1813 Ude’s French Cook 1813 Hammond’s Modern Domestic Cookery 1816 The School for Good Living 181-1 The Epicure’s .'Minanack 1815 Domestic Management 1813 Family Receipts 1810 Essay on Diet 1757 La Cuisiniere Bourgeoisc 1798 Le Parfait Cuisinier 1811 Le Nouveau Cuisinier 1813 La Science du Maitre d’Hotcl 1776PnEI'ACE. (liose wlio are ignorant of, and useless to tliose wlio are acquainted witli, the business of the kitchen. During the Herculean labour of niy tedious progress through these books, 1 liave often wished tlie atitliors had been satislied with giv- ing us the results of their own practice and ex- perience*, instead of idly perpetuating the Lo {'uisinior Imperial Pays Va\ul Ituv L’Ai t ilu Ciiisinier, (lar Iteavilliers 1814 Manuel dcs Ampliilryniis 1808 Alniaiiaeli des Gonnnaiuls, \c. 0 toms. 1808 'File above works are in my own library ; many others my friends have favoured me with tlie perusal of, in number altogether, amounting to not less than 160 volumes. * Thomas Carter, in the preface to his “ Cifij and Country Conk,” London, 1738, says, “ What I have pub- lished, is almost the only book, one or two excepted, which of late years has come into the world, that has been the result of the authuj’s own practice and expe- rience: foi thoneh very few eminent practical Cooks have ever cared to publish, what they knew ot the art, yet they have been prevailed on, tor a small premium from a bookseller, to lend their names, to perlormances in this art, unworthy their owning.” Hobert May, in the nitrodiietion to his “ Ac.o njdishcd Cook,” Ibd.r, says, “ To all Iwiiest ami in ll-tnii iidniy^ persons of my projession, and ollm s, this ha /,■ canml hut he acceptable, as it plainly and priifilably discorers ilu mys- tery of the whole all ; for which, though I may bePllEl'ACE. errors, and prejudices, and plagiarisms, of their predecessors, and copying their strange, unac- countable, and uselessly extravagant farragos, and heterogeneous compositions*, which fill their pages; combinations no rational being would ever think of either dressing or eating, and without ascertaining the practicability of preparing the receipts, and their eatability when done, they should never have ventured to re- envied by some, that only value llieir private interests above posterity and the public good; yet, (he adds,) God and my own conscience would not permit me to bury these, my e,\periences, with iny silver hairs in the grave." , * .Such as io farce (the culinary technical for to stu/f,) a boiled leg of lamb with red herrings and garlick, with many other receipts of as high a relish; and of as easy digestion as the devil's venison, i. e. a roasted tiger stutfed with tenpenny nails, or the “ Bonne Bonehe,” the Rareskin Rowskimowniowsky, offered to Baron Munchausen “ a fricassee of pistols, with gunpowder and alcohol sauce,” — see the .4dmi</(rcs of Baron cliausen, 12mo. Symonds, Paternoster Row, 1792, page 200. It is astonishing how cheap Cookery Books arc held by practical Cooks ; when I applied to an expe- rienced artist to recommend me some books that would give me a notion of the lirst principles and rudiments of Cookery, he replied with a smile — “ Vou may read Don Quixote, or Peregrine Pickle, they are both very good books.”rRKFACE. commend them to others ; so that the reader may put the same qintre, as Jeremy, in Con- greve’s comedy of “ Love for Love,’’ when Valentine observes, “ Tlicre’s a page doubled down in Epictetus, that is a feast for an Empe- ror.”— Jer. ^^'as Epictetus a real Cook, or did he only write receipts? Half of these books, are made up with pages cut out of obseletc works, such as the “ Choice Manuel of Secrete,” the “ '1 rue Gentlexooman's Delight,” &c. of as much use, in this age of refinement, as the following curious quotation from “ The Aeconrplished Lady's Rich Closet of Rarities, or Ingenious Gentlewoman's Delightful Companionf 12mo. London, 1653, chapter 7, page 42 : “A gentlewoman being at table, abroad or at home, must observe to keep her body straight, and lean not by any means with her elbows, nor by ravenous gesture discover a voracious appetite ; take not in your wine too greedily, nor drink not till you are out^ of breath, but do things with decency and order, gnaw no bones, keep your fingers from vour mouth, throw not any thing over your shoul- ders;” with the addition, of what they call “ a choice collection, of excellent and approved family receipts, of sovereign efficacy in all man- ner of maladiesthe proper appellation forPREFACE. which would be, “ a dangerous budget of me- dical vulgar errorscommonly concluding, with a bundle of extracts from “ TJte Gardener’s Calendar" “ The Vintners Vnde Mecum,” and “ The Publican’s Daily Companion.’’ But let us remember, that “ One science only will one genius fit. So wide is art, so narrow liuinan wit.” Without interfering with the physician or the gardener, the publican or the vintner, we shall confine our Book to the business of the kitchen, and endeavour to improve the ignorant, and remind the skilful Cook, how, and wdien, to make the best and the most of every thing. I have taken much more pains than any of my prede- cessors, to teach the young Cook how to perform, in the best manner, the conwion business of her prefession ; and being well grounded in the RUDIMENTS of COOKERY, she will be able to execute the orders that are given her, with ease to herself, and satisfaction to her Employ- ers, and send up a delicious dinner, with half the usual expense and trouble. I have endea- voured to lessen the labour, of those who wdslx to be thoroughly acquainted with their profes- sion ; and an attentive perusal of the following pages, will save them much of the irksomePREFACE. (Inulgery, attending an apprenticeship at the stove; an ordeal so severe, that lew pass it without irreparal)lc injury to their liealtli*; and many, lose their lives, l^etbre tliey learn their business. A good dinner is one of the greatest enjoy- ments of human life ; but the practice of cook- ery is attended with not only so many disgusting and disagreeable eircnmstances, and even dan- gers, that we ought to have some regard for those who encounter them for o\ir pleasure, and WT, ought to reward tlieir attention, l)y render- ing their situation every way as agreeable and comfortable as we can, for mere money is not a sufficient compensation to a complete Cook. * “ Piiiy it, with hcaltli, strength, and resolution, Ami i>ay for it, a lohiist eonstitntion.'’ Sec the preface to “ The Cook's Cuiiku-:j,'' page 9. This work, wliieh is very scarce, was, we believe, written to (levelopc the niistake.s in what he calls “ the Thousand Error.s,” i. e. “ The Lady's i.’ookery,'' i. e. IMrs. tllassr’s, i. e. Sir John Hill’s. “ Cleanliness, and a proper ventilation to carry off .smoke and steam, should he particularly attended to in the construction of a kitchen; and the grand scene of action, the fire-place, .should be placed where it may receive plenty of light: hitherto the contrary has pre- vailed, and the poor Cook is continually hasted with her own perspiration.”—A. C, j\inr.PREFACE. To say nothing of the deleterious vapours and pestilential exhalations of the charcoal, which soon undermine the health of the heartiest, the glare of a vivid scorching fire, and the smoke so baneful to the eyes and the complexion, are continual and inevitable dangers; and a Cook must live in the midst of them, as a soldier in the field of battle, surrounded by bullets, and bombs, and Congreve’s rockets; with this only difference, that for the first, every day is a fight- ing day, that her warfare is almost ahvays with- out glory, and most praiseworthy achievements pass not only without reward, but frequently without even Thanks ; for the most consummate Cook is, alas ! seldom noticed by the master, or heard of by the guests; who, while they are eagerly devouring his turtle, and drinking his wine, care very little who dressed the one, or sent the other. This observation applies espe- cially to the Second Cook, or first Kitchen Maid, in large families, who have by far the hardest place in the house, and are w’orse paid, and truly verify the old adage, “ the more work, the less wages.” If there is any thing right, the Cook has the praise — wlven there is any thing wrong, as surely the kitchen maid has iTe blame. Be it known, then, that this humble (Tomcstic, is expected by the Cook to take theXXXVU PREFACE. entire management of all Roasts and Boils, Fish and Vegetables—i. e. the most impurtant part of an English/nan s dinner. The master, who wishes, to enjoy the rare luxury, of a table regularly well served in the best stvlc, must treat his Cook as his friend, and watch over his health* with the tenderest care, and especially, be sure, his Taste docs not sutler, from his Stomach being ileranged l>y Bilious attacks, &:c. The must experienced artists, cannot be sure of their work, without Tasting ; they must be in- cessantly Tasting. The spoon of a good Cook, is continually passing from the Stew'pans to his Tongue; fur nothing, but frequent Tasting his Sauces, Ragouts, &c., can discover to him wdrat progress they have made, or enable him, to sea- son A Soup with any certainty of success: his Palate, therefore, must be in the highest state of excitability, that the least fault may be per- ceived in an instant. But, alas ! the constant cmpyrcumatic fumes of the stoves, the necessity of frequent drinking, * 'I'lic greatest care .‘■lioiild be taken l>y the man of fashion, tiiat his Cook’s health be pre.served : one lutn- dredth part of the attention usually bestowed on hi* dog, or his horse, will sufiicc to regulate hi* .'iniiMl system.—A, C. juur.PUEKACE. XXXVlll and often of bad beer, to moisten a parcIiecT throat; in short, every thing around liini con- spires quickly to vitiate the organs of taste ; the palate becomes blunted, its quickness of feeling and delicacy, on which the sensibility of the organs of taste depends, grows daily more ob- tuse, and in time becomes quite indurated, and the gustatory nerves unexcitable and unmove- able. When you find your Cook neglect his busi- ness, that his ragouts are too highly spiced or salted, and his cookery has too much of the “ haut gofit,” you may be sure that his index of taste wants regulating, that his palate has lost its sensibility, and it is high time to call in the assistance of the apothecary, who will prepare him well, by two days’ aqueous diet, and give him a purging potion, composed of manna, senna, and salts, regulating the dose according to the greater or less insensibility of his palate; give him a day’s rest, and then purge him again; let him liave two days’ rest after his se- cond dose of physic, and you may then hope to have at the head of your stoves a man altogc- tlier renovated. This receipt, to en.surc good cheer, is no joke, but the actual practice in those kitchens where the master is proud ol' the reputation of hisPREI At K. WXU Table. Great Cooks, .submit to llie operation, without a murmur; but, to bind others, ii sliould be made the first condition in hirin»’ ihern. Those who refuse, prove they were not born to become masters of tlicir art; and their indif- ference to fame, will rank them, as tin y deserve, among those stupid slaves, who ]),iss their lives in as mucli ol)scurity as their own stew[)ans. To the preceding observations from the “ Almanack dcs Gourmands,” we may add, that the Moulhiciaa will liave a still lietter chance of success, if he can prevail on his master to observe the same regime which he orders for liis Cemk. 1 have here done my utmost candidly to com- municate, in as clear and intelligible a manner as I am able, the whole truth of the Iieretofore abstruse mysteries of the culinary art; herein, I hope, so plainly developed, that the most ig- norant student in the occult art of cookcrv, may com))rehend and work from my receipts witli the utmost facility; and thus they will soon acquire the enviable art of adorning the table with that splendid frugabty, which cannot fad to give every possible satisfaction. I am well aware of the extreme didlcultv of the task I have undertaken, in attempting to teach those who are entirely unacquainted with the subject, and to convey my ideas correctly by f. 2PREFACE. xl mere receipts to those who have never shook hands with a stewpan, nor had any opportunity of seeing; the work performed. Tn my anxiety to be readily understood, I have, perhaps, been under the necessity of occasionally repeating the same directions in different parts of the book: but I chose rather to be censured for repetition, than for omission or obscurity. It has been customary to fill a certain number of pages with the Jrt <y' Carving*, and Bills of * Buy Dr Triisler’s Art of Carving. You will find a wholesome hint on this subject in pave xxi. of this Pre- face. Ceremony, does not in any thin", more com- monly and completely triumph over comfort, than in the administration of “ the honours of the table. ” Those who serve out the loaves and fishes, very seldom seem to understand, that he fills that situation best, W'ho in the shortest time, fills the plates of the greatest mnnber of hnnvry guests surrounding him. A dexteidus Carver, (especially if he be possessed with that determined enemy to ceremony and sauce, a keen apiietite,) will help half a dozen people, in half the time, one of your would-be-thought polite folks, occupies in making civil faces and compliments, to a single guest. Hall'the trouble of waiting at table, may be saved, by giving each guest, two plates, two knives and forks, two ))ieci's of bread, a spoon, a wine glass, and a tum- bler, and placing the wines and sauces, and the INIaga- zine of Taste, 463, <!vc. as a dormant, in the centre of the table ; one neighbour may then help another.VREKAC f . >vli Y(ire, (the best set I have seen are in Simpsov’s Cookery,) and “ proper rules to be observed in marketing, in knowing and buying poulterers’, fis/imongers’, and butdiers’ ware, piung a (me insight into the mystery of each aiid, indeed, all the skill of the most aceoniplishod Cook will avail nothinp^, unless she is furnished with prime provisions. The best way C) procure these is to deal with shops of established eliaracter; you may pay, perhaps, ten or fifteen ]>er cent more than you would were you to deal with those who pretend to sell cheap, but you will be more than in proportion better servcfl. Every trade has its tricks and deceptions, and tho'e who follow them can decei\ e you if they please, and they are too apt to do so, if you provoke the exercise of their over-reaching- talent. Chal- lenge them to a game at “ catch who can,” bv entirely relying on your own judgment: and vou will find nothing but very long experience, can make you ecpial to the combat of marketino- to the utmost advantage. The best rule ton rk etixg, is to j:ay ready money I'or every thing, and tn deal with the most respectable tradesmen in your neighbourlioocl. If you leave it to their iiHegritv to supply you with a good article, at the fan- market price, I liavc, from my own experience, every reason to E 3PREFACL. xlii believe, you will be supplied with better provi- sions, and at as reasonable a rate, as those Bar- gain-Hunters, who trot around around around about a market, till they are trapped to buy some unchewable old Poultry*, starved tough • COURT OF REQUESTS, Tuesday, Noc. 5, 1816. HOWARD V. PHILLIPS. Tills was a case of some importance to tlie public. The defendant, a walking poulterer, was summoned by the plaintiff, a widow lady residing near the Asylnin, to show cause why he did not pay back to her four shil- lings, which he had obtained from her under false re- presentations. The plaintiff stated, that the defendant called at her house on Wednesday last, and inquired if she wanted a fine fowl, as he had some he could recom- mend. .She desired he would select her one she might depend upon as being young and good. He accordingly picked out one which he said he could recommend as being a young one, and she took it upon his recommenda- tion, and paid him four shillings. At dinner, how- ever, to her great dismay, on attempting to carve this delicate xjoung chicken, she discovered that so great an attachment had the bones and joints formed to each otber from long acquaintance, that they successfully resisted all her attempts to separate them, and she was obliged to give over the attempt. A favourite png dog was then allowed to commence his operations upon the breast, but so thick was the skin, and so solid the flesh, that he, after much labour, found himself foiled, as his tti&tress had been before him. On the following dayxliii r RE FACE. Aliittoii, stringy Beef, or stale Fish, (at a little less than the price of prime and proper food); the plaintitVapplied to the (lefcndaiit, sendiiif; back tlic fragiiients of the young cliickcn, and desiring to liave tier money bark again ; but the defendant positively re- fhscd, either to receive back his property, or to refund tlic money lie had receivcil; upon which refusal the plaintiff summoned him. Mrs. Howard’s servant corroborated her statement, and added, that defendant, as he was (piilting the lionse, desired her to boil the fowl double the time her mistress told her, because it was a large one. It was accordingly boiled more than double the usual time. The defendant did not attempt to deny that the fowl was an old one, but said, he was himself deceived by the person of whom he purchased it, and the jilaintifl’ having seen it before she p.iid for it, could not com- plain of any im])osition being practised upon her. 'I’he Court, however, decided that the defendant should refund the four shillings, ami pay all the costs. It was plain, that when he sold the fowl, he was aware of the imposition he was practising. He had given evidence of this himself, by desiring the servant to boil it longer than the usual time. At the same time, how- ever, that the Court thus gave judgment against the defendant, they could not avoid censuring, to a certain extent, the plaintiff, ami all those who encouraged per- sons of the defendant’s description, by dealing with them. Little doubt could exist in the mind of any one, that most of the fowls thus hawked about the streets were stolen, at least by those who sold them to the hawkers; and whilst the thieves could find so ready axliv PREFACE. with savings like these, they toddle home in tri- umph, cackling all the way, like a goose that has got ankle deep into good luck. JF/ien you order Meat, Poultry, or Fisk, tell the Tradesman when you intend to dress it, and he will then have it in his power to serve you with provision that will do him credit, which the finest Meat, &c. in the world, will never do, un- less it has been kept a proper time to be rip'^ and tender. If you have a well-ventilated larder, in a shady, dry situation, you may make still surer, by ordering in your meat and poultry, such a time before you want it as will render it tender, which the finest meat cannot be, unless hung a proper time ; (see 2d Chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery;) according to the season and nature of the meat, &c., but always till it has made some advance towards putrefaction! the ten- dency to which, commences the moment life is extinguished. The allowing this process to proceed to a certain degree, renders the meat much more easy of solution in the stomach, market for tlicir phincler, tliere was little cliance that the robbing of fowl-liouscs would be put an end to. Tlie defendant being informed, that unless the debt and costs were immediately paid, an e.vecution would forthwith issue against him, paid the sum demanded, and departed.PREFACE. xlv without diminishing- the nutritious quality of it. Before you go to market*, look over your larder, and it will save you much time and trouble to make out a list of the several articles you want, because when once your kitchen business is begun, you must never leave orb till it is linish- ed; if you have forgotten any article indispen- sable for the day’s dinner, reciucst your em- ployers to send one of the other servants I'or it; for as Cook you must never (juit your post till your work is complete. It is not expected that the most expert artist can perform his work in a perfect manner, with- out a sufficient number of proper instruments; you cannot have neat work without nice tools; nor can your victuals be well dressed, without an apparatus appropriate to the work required ; it will be to little purpose to provide good pro- visions, without proper utensils| to prepare them in. * Espcciallv on a Saturday. No well-regulated Fa- niily, must sutler the disonlei ly Caterer, to he jumping in ami out to the C'liandier’s sho]» on a Sunday morning. t “ surgeon may as well attempt to make an inci- sion with a pair o( sheers, or to open a vein with an oyster Unite, as a Cook pietend to dress a dinner with- out proper tools to do it.”—/Vr/uce to Verali.’s Cuukcnj, t!vo. London, 1759, page vi.ADVICE TO COOKS‘S. N. B. Read the preceding Pixface before you read the following Address. On your first coming into a family, lose no time in immediately getting into the good graces of your fellow-servants, that you may learn from tliem the customs of the kitchen, and the various rules and orders of the house; especially, take care, to be on good terms with the servant who waits at table; you will then hear how your work has pleased in the parlour, and be enabled to rectify any mistake: and request the favour of an interview with your master or mistress, that you may depend as little as possible, on second-hand opinions: if you are a good Cook, * A Chapter of Advice to Cooks, will, we hope, be found as useful as it is original: all we have on this subject in the works of our predecessors, is the follow- ing : “ I shall strongly recoinineud to all Cooks of either sex, to keep their stomachs free from strong liquors, and their noses from snuft'.”—Vide Clermont’s Prqfessed Cook, page 30, 8vo. London, 1776.xlvii .IDVICE TO COOKS. niid have fair play, you will soon become the favourite domestic, if your Master is a Man of Taste; but in proportion, as you rise in his esti- mation, you will excite all the tricks, that envy, hatred, and malice, can suggest to your jealous fellow'-servants, therefore always endeavour to apply direct to your employers, and beg of them to explain to you, as fully as possible, how’ they like their victuals dressed, whether much or little done*, and of what complexion they wisli the Roasts, of a gold colour, or well browned, and if they like them frothed ; do they like Soups and Sauces, thick or thin, or white or brown, clean or full in the mouth, and what flavours they fancy, especially of spice and herbs; for it is impossible the most Accom- plished Cook can please their palates, till she has lirst learned their particular tastef. It is * Meat that is not to be cut till it is cold, must be tliorouglily doin', especially in summer. + “ De sustibiis non est disputandum.” Tastes are as different as faces, anil without a most attentive oliservation of the directions "iven by lier employers, the most experienced Cook will never become a saga- cious Pnlutician, or get any credit. It will not go far to jiacify the rage of a ravenous gourmand, who likes his chops broiled brown and done enough, (so that they can appear at table decently, and not blush when they are cut,) to be told that some of the customers atADVICE TO COOKS. xlviii not sufficient that she knows how to dress things the best way, she must also learn the way her employers like best. The organ of Taste, is more rarely found in perfection, and is sooner spoiled, by the operations of time, or excessive use, than either of the other senses:—where Nature has been most bountiful of this faculty, Dolly’s chop-house choose to have tliem only half done, and that tliis is the best way of eating tliein. I believe we all think that is tlie l)est way which we relish best, and whicli agrees best with our stomachs; in this, rea- son and fashion, all powerful as they are on most occa- sions, yield to the imperative caprice of the palate. “ The Irishman loves usquebaugh ; the Scot loves ale, called blue cap ; “ The Welshman he loves toasted cheese, and makes his mouth like a mouse trap.” Our Italian neighbours now cat many things we think carrion. Vide Hay’s Tracets, page 362 and JOd. While the Englishman boasts of his heef, the Frenchman dresses iiis favourite frog and soup, the Tartar feasts on horseflesh, and tlie Chinaman on dogs; and what at one time, or in one country, is considered as beautiful, fra- grant, or savoury, is at another time or place regarded as deformed and disgustful. Assafcc.tida was called, by the ancients, food for the Gods.” The Persians, Indians, and other eastern )WO- ple, now eat it in sauces, and call it expressly by that name: while the Germans call it “ Devil’s Dutig."— See PoMET on Drugs, 4to. London, 1741.ADVICK TO COOKS. xi'cv its sensibility is so easily blunted, by a variety of unavoidable circumstances, that the Tongue, is very seldom, in high condition for a])prc- ciating delicate flavours, or accurately estimat- ing, the relative force, of the various materials, the Cook has to combine, to produce that har- monious relish, (which extorts the highest praise one Cook can give another,) which they express, by saying, a Ragout “ tastes of every thing, and tastes of nothing;” (this is “ kitchen gibberish,” for a Sauce in which the com])onent parts are well proportioned). The Editor of the “ Alma- nack dcs Gourmands’ observes; “ However ex- quisitely and delicately sensitive, nature may have formed the organs of I’aste, it is only during those few happy moments, that they are perfectly awake, and in perfect good humour— (alas! how very seldom they arc in [)erfect good humour!) that the most accomplished and ex- perienced Cook has a chance of working ■with any degree of certainty, without the auxiliary tests of the balance and the measure; by the help of these, when you are once right, it is your own fault if you are ever otherwise.” The sense of Taste, is never for a single hour, in the same state, (its activity, depends very much on the health of the individual, and) such is the extremely intimate sympathy, between theADVICE TO COOKS. 1 Stomach and the Tongue, that when the former is satisfied with food, the latter, loses its excita- ■bility in the like proportion—this, is the cause, that “ good appetite is the best sauceand the dish we find relishing and savoury at lun- cheon, is insipid at dinner, and at supper, quite tasteless. The incessant Exercise of Tasting, a Cook is obliged to submit to, during the Edu- cation of her Tongue, frequently impairs, the very faculty she is trying to improve, ( “ 'tis true, ’tis pity, and pity ’tis,” says a grand gour- mand, “ ’tis true,”) thus, her too anxious perse- verance, to become an accomplished Palatician, may diminish the tact, and exhaust the power, and often destroy, the Index, without which she cannot work at all. Therefore, the sagacious Cook, instead of idly and wantonly wasting the excitability of her Palate, (on the sensibility of which, her reputa- tion and fortune depends,) when she has ascer- tained the relative flavours of the various ingre- dients she employs, will call in the balance and the measure to do the ordinary work, and en- deavour to preserve her organ of'Fastc, with the utmost care, that it may be a faithful Oracle, to refer to, on Grand occasions, and new Composi- tions. Always avoid over-dressing, and especiallyADVICB TO COOKS. F 2 over-seasoning. Soups and made dishes with Pej)- ])ers or Spices, as they are faults that cannot be mended *; and take especial care that all pour Meat, Poultry, ^-c. has been killed long enough to he tender, before you dress it, or the best Cook in the world will get no credit, be she ever so careful in managing her spit and stewpan. Af- ter you have done your utmost, you will not get much credit by cooking to perfection, if more than one dish goes to table at a time: to be eaten in perfection, the interval between its being taken out of the stewpan, and put into the mouth, must be as short as possible; but cere- mony, that most formidable enemy to good cheer, too often decrees it otherwise, and the guests seldom get a bit of an “ entremet” till it is half cold. It will save you infinite trouble and anxiety, if you can prevail on your em- ployers to use the “ sauce-rox,” No. 463, hereinafter described in the chapter of sauces. With the help of this “ delicious Magazine of Taste,” every one in company may flavour their soup and sauce, and adjust the vibrations of their palate, exactly to their own fancy: but if * If your roasts and boils are a little under-done ; with the assistance of the stewpan, the gridiron, or the Dutch oven, you may soon re|)air the mistake of tlm spit or the pot,lii ADVICE TO COOKS. the Cook give a decidedly predominant, and piquantc flavour to a dish, to tickle the tongue of two or three visiters whose taste she knows, perhaps she may thereby make the dinner dis- gusting to all the other guests. Never under- take more work flian you are quite certain you can do to perfection; and if you are ordered to prepare a larger dinner than you think you can send up with ease and neatness, or to dress any dish you are not acquainted* with, rather than run the risk of spoiling a single dish, by which, perhaps, you may lose all your credit, request your employers to let you have some help, for it requires no small care and contrivance to have all things done as they should be, and all hot together, and “ A feast must be without a fault; Ami, if’tis not all right, ’tis naught.” But “ Good nature will some failings overlook, Forgive mischance, not errors of the Cook ; * And such is the endless variety of Culinary prepa- rations, it would be as vain and fruitless a search as tiiat for the philosopher's stone, to expect to find a Cook who is (piite perfect in all the operations of the spit, the stewpan, and the rolling-pin : yon will as soon find a svatchmaker who can make, put together, and regulate every part of a watch.AI)V1CE to cooks. li.;' As, if no salt is thrown about the disli, Or nice crisp’d parsley, scatter’d on the fish ; Shall we in I’assion from onr Dinner fly, And hopes of pardon to the Cook deny, For things which Mrs. Gi.asse herself might oversee, And all mankind commit as well as she?” Vide KiiNG’s Art of Cookery. Take care to begin yoiir business betimes, or It will be impossible to have your dinner ready at the time it is ordered*; to be half an hour * In an invitation to dinner, live o’clock seems to he generally understood to mean six; five precisely, half past five; and five most precisely, (so that dinner may be on the table within ten minutes after, allowing this for the variation of watches,) live o’clock exactly. If the guests have any respect for their host, or prefer a wett- dressed dinner to one that is spoilt, instead of corning half an hour after, they will take care to make their appearance a quarter of an hour before the. time appointed: the dinner that wonhl have been most excellent at five, must be uneatable if not sent to table till half past five : the operations of the Cook arc governed by the Clock, and the rnomait the Roasts, Sj-c. are ready, they must go to fable, if they are to be eaten in perfection. It is the least punishment that a blundering ill-bred Itooby can r e- ceive, who comes half on hour after the time he was bidden, to find the soup removed, and the fish cold. lloiLEAu, the French satirist, has a shrewd observation on this sub- ject. “ I have always been punctual at the hour of “ Dinner,” .says the Hard, “ for I knew, that all tiiose “ whom 1 kept waiting at that provoking interval, F 3ADVICE TO COOKS, liv after the time, is so frequent a fault, that there is the more merit attached in being ready at the appointed hour*. This is certainly sometimes a rather difficult task to perform ; and in the best regulated families, you can only be‘sure of your time by thus properly arranging your businessf. “ would use those unpleasant moments to sum up all “ my faults. Roileau, is indeed a man of genius,” they would say, “ and a very honest man ; but that dilatory procrastinating way he has got into, w'onld mar the virtues of an angel.” * Those who desire regularity in the service of their table, should liavc a DI.AL, of not less than twelve inches diameter, placed over the kitchen fire-place, carefully regulated, to keep time e.xactly witii tlie clock in the hall or dining parlour; with a frame on jone side, containing a taste table, of the peculiarities of the master’s palate, and the particular rules and orders of his kitchen; and on the other side, of the rewards given to tho.se who attend to them, and for long service. t With all onr love of punctuality, wo must not for- get that the first consideration must still be, that the dinner “ be well done when ’tis done.” If any accident occurs, which is likely to prevent your sending the, soup, &c. to table at the moment it is expected, send up a message to your employers, stating the circum- stance, and bespeak their patience for as many minutes as you think yon shall want to be ready. This is better than cither keeping the company waiting without an apology; or dishing your diuner before it is done enough, and so disgusting the stomachs of the guests at the first appearance of it.Iv ADVICE TO COOKS. At all times have a boiler of water hanging over the fire, or so close to it, that the water may be constantly hot for any purpose you may want it. Remember to have your kitchen chim- ney swept once a month; many good dinners have been spoiled by the soot falling, and many houses burnt down — the best security against this, is for the Cook to have a long birch broom, and every morning brush down all the soot within reach of it. When you have a very large entertainment to prepare, first attend to your broths and gra- vies for your soups and sauces, and by all means get these ready the day before. The pastry, jellies, &c. you may prepare while the broths are doing; then truss your game and poultry, and trim and shape your collops, cutlets, &c., put them in plates, and arrange them upon the dresser in regular order; next see that your roasts and boils are all nicely trimmed, trussed, and singed, and quite ready for the spit or the pot. Get all your vegetables neatly cut, pared, picked, and clean washed in the cullender: provide a tin dish to hold your fine herbs; onions and shallots, parsley, marjoram, thyme, tarragon, chervil, and burnet, minced tery fine, and lemon l)eel grated, or cut thin, and chopped very small, pepper and salt ready mixed, and yourADVICE TO COOKS, Ivi spice-box ^ and salt-seller always at hand, so that every thing you want may be ready for your stove-work, and you need not be scamper- ing about the kitchen in a whirlpool of confusion, hunting after these trifles, while the dinner is waiting: nothing, can be done in perfection, that must be done in a hurry ; therefore, if you wish the dinner to be sent up to please your master and mistress, and do credit to yourself, set a high value on your character for punctual- ity ; this shows the establishment is orderly, is extremely gratifying to the master and his guests, and is most praiseworthy in the at- tendants. * 111 one drawer under your Spice-Box, keep ready ground, in two ounce stopper bottles, the several spices separate; and also that mixture of them which we call “ Ragout Powderin another, keep your dried and powdered, sweet, savoury, and soup-herbs, &C., and a set of v eights and scales: you may have a third drawer, containing flavouring essences, &c., an invaluable auxiliary in flnishing soups and sauces : (sec the account of the “ Magazine of Taste,” or “ Sauce-Box,” No. -m.”, in the chapter of Sauces:) have also ready, some thickening, made of the best white flour sifted, mixed with soft water with a wooden spoon till it is tlie consistence of thick batter, a bottle of plain browning, some strained lemon-juice, and .•■onie good glaze or portable soup.ADVICK TO cook;?. VU “ But, remember, you cannot obtain this de- “ sirable reputation, without good management “ in every respect; and if you wisli to ensure “ ease and independence in the latter part of “ your life, you must not be unwilling to pay “ the price for which only they can be obtained, “ and earn tliem by a diligent and faithful*’ “ performance of the duties of your station in “ your young days, which, if you steadily “ persevere in, you may depend iipon ultimately “ receiving the reward your services deserve. “ Quiet steady perseverance, is the only sure “ spring to infallibly promote your progress on “ the road to independence ; and if your “ employers do not immediately appear to be “ sensible of your endeavours to contribute “ your utmost to their comfort and interest, “ be not easily discouraged ; persevere steadily “ in the right path; patiently and conscien- “ tiously attend to your duties ; and those you “ serve must soon discover the inestimable “ value of such a faithful and intelligent prime “ minister in their kitchen.” •N.15. If you would take half tlie pains, to deserve the regard of your master, by being a good umljaithj'ul servant, you take to lie considered u good fellow-servant, so many of you, would not in the decline of life, be left destitute of those comforts which age requires.RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY CHAPTER I. BOILING. Tins most simple of culinary processes is not often performed in perfection, though it requires less nicety and attendance than roasting, though to skim your pot well, and keep it really boiling (the slower the better) all the while, and to know how long is required for doing the joint, &c. comprehends almost the whole art and mystery. This, however, demands a patient and perpetual vigilance, of which few persons are capable. The Cook must take especial care that the water reallp boils all the while she is cooking, or she w'ill be deceived in the time; and make up a sufficient fire (a frugal Cook M'ill manage with much less fire for boiling than she uses for roasting) at first, to last all the time, without much mending or stirring. When it is coining to a boil, there willBOIUNC!. always, from the cleanest meat and clearest water, rise a scum to the top of tlie pot; this proceeds partly from the foulness of the meat, and partly from the water, and must be care- fully taken off as soon as it rises : if you neglect this, and suffer it to boil, the scum will fall, and stick to the meat. On this, depends the good appearance of all boiled things. When yon have scummed well, throw in some cold water and a little salt, which will throw up the rest of the scum. The oftencr it is scummed, and the cleaner the top of the water is kept, the cleaner will be the meat. If let alone, it soon boils down and sticks to the meat*; which, instead of looking delicately white and nice, will have that coarse and filthy appearance we have too often to complain of, and the butcher and poulterer, get blamed for the carelessness of the Cook in not scumming her pot. Many put in milk, to make what they boil look white ; but this does more harm than good: others wrap it up in a cloth; but this is needless; if the scum be attentively removed, it will have a much moi'e delicate colour and finer flavour • * If, unfortunately, tlii.s should lia|))>en, tlic Cook must carefully take it off when slie dishes up, either with a clean sponge or a paste-hruslK60 BOILIXG. than it has when muffled up. This may give rather more trouble — but those who wish to excel in their art must never consider any thing, but how the processes of it can be most perfectly performed; and a Cook who has a proper pride and pleasure in her business, will make this her maxim on all occasions. Remove the dirt, instead of defending the meat against it. Put your meat into plenty of cold* water, not less than a quart to a pound, so that it may get gradually warm through before the outside becomes hard ; begin to reckon the time from its first coming to a boil. The old nde of 15 mi- nutes to a pound of meat, we think rather too little; for the slower it boils, the tenderer, plumper, and whiter it will be. From 20 to 30 minutes to a pound will not be found too much for gentle simmering by the side of the fire; allowing more or less time, according to the thickness of the joints; always remembering, the slower it boils the better: without some practice it is difficult to teach any art; and * Cook.s, liowevcr, as well as doctors, disagree ; for some say, tliat “ all sorts of fresh meat should be put in when the water boils.” I prefer the above method, for the reason given.BOILING. (il common Cooks seem to suppose, they cannot but be right, if they put meat into a pot, and set it over the fire for a certain time, making no allowance, whether it simmers without a bubble, or boils a gallop. Meat will take rather longer time boiling in cold than in warm weather ; and, if it be frozen, must be thawed before boiling as before roast- ing, bv lying some time in cold water: or, a much better plan is, the night before you dress it, to bring it into a place of which the temperature is not less than fifty degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. The size of the vessels should be adapted to what they are wanted to contain : the larger the saucepan is, the more room it takes up on the fire, and a larger quantity of water requires a proportionate increase of fire to boil it. In small families, we recommend TIN saucepans, &c. as lightest and safest; and if proper care is taken of them, and they are well dried after they are cleaned, tliey are by far tlie cheapest, for the purchase of a new tin saucepan, is little more than the expense of tinning a copper one. Take care that the covers of your boiling pots fit close, not only to prevent unnecessary evaporation of tlie water, but that the smoke of the fire may not insinuate itself under the edge of the lid, c;62 boiling. and give the meat a bad taste. Never let yonr meat or poultry remain in the water after it is done enough, as that makes it sodden, and lose its flavour. Beef and mutton a little underdone * is not a great fault—by some people it is preferred; but lamb, pork, and veal, are uneatable if not thoroughly boiled. A trivet set on the bottom of your boiling pots, raising the contents about two inches from the bottom, will be found a great improvement, and prevent that side of the meat which comes next the bottom from getting a burn, or being done too much. If you have not a trivet, use four skewers, or a soup-plate laid the wrong side upwards. Take care of the liquor you have boiled your meat in; for in these times, no good housewife has any pretensions to rational economy, who boils a joint without making some sort of soup, (see chapter 7.) If the liquor be too salt, only use half the quantity, and the rest water; and wash salted meat well with cold water before you put it into the boiler. In whatever way the flesh of animals is * Especially very lurprc joints, which arc to he hashed or broiled.UOILING. cooked, ii considerable diminution takes place in its weig^ht; but less by boiling’ than by any of the other ways of dressing ; and, independent of tlie smaller loss of weight by boiling, it is the most economical cookery, as it affords tlie opportunity of converting a considerable (pian- tity of water into a nourishing and wholesome soup, wliich receives the nutritive matter and juices of the meat; whereas, by roasting, broil- ing, or baking, they are evaporated and lost. We here give the results of some experiments, made on purpose to show the comparative loss of weight by the various culinary processes. I?ccf l)y boiling lost per cent. Ditto by baking 30 per ditto. Ditto by roasting 32 per dftto. Mutton by boiling lost ••• • 22 per ditto. Ditto by roasting 32 per ditto. Thus the diminution by cookery amounts to from one-fifth to one-third of the weight. N. B. Some send up in the dish a teacupful of the liquor the meat has been boiled in. To make Gravy for boiled meat, see No. ;i‘27.RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY CHAPTER II. ROASTING. In all studies, it is the best practice, to begin with the plainest and easiest parts ; and so on, by degrees, to such as are more difficult; we, therefore, treated of plain boiling, and we now proceed to roasting * ; we shall then gra- * The innscular flesh of animals, which is the subject of culinary operations, is composed of many elements. A nice discrimination of these parts is by no means necessary for our present purpose ; it will be sufficient to point out, that of muscular flesh one part becomes coagulated at the boiling heat of i2l2° of Fahrenheit, and resembles, in its properties, the white of an egg; it has, therefore, been called albumen. Another com- ponent part is the animal glue or Jelly, termed gelatin ; and the otiicr is the coloured juice contained within the smaller vessels, which, in compliance with custom, we denominate gravy. In the preparation of food by boiling and roasting, the albumen is coagulated : the same effect takes place in the drawing of gravy. In this latter operation, the gelatin and fluids containedR0AS7 INT,. 65 dually unravel, to our culinary students, the art and mystery (until we candidly and clearly develop it in this work) of making, with the least trouble and expense, the most delicious and highly hnished Made-dishes. Let the young Cook never forget, that clean- liness is the first Cardinal Virtue of the Kitchen ; and the first preparation for roasting is to take care that the spit be properly cleaned with sand and water; nothing else. When it has been well scowered with this, dry it with a clean cloth. If spits are xvijied dean, as soon as the meat is drawn from them, and while they are hot, a lery little cleaning will be required. The less the spit is passed through the meat, the better*; and in the smaller ve.sscls are extracted ; and tlie albumen, coagulated with the fibrous matter, remains. It will be evident, from this .statement, that roasted meat is more nutricions than boiled; because, at the boiling beat, a great f|iiantity of the gelatinous part is extracted by the water. — A. C. jnnr. * As many s.mai.l families have not the convenience of roasting with a spit, a remark upon roasting by a sTRi.SG is nccc.ssary. — Let the Cook, hqfnre she puts her meat down to the fire, pa.ss a strong skewer tlirongli Mich end of the joint; by this means, when it is aliont halt done, she can with case turn the bottom upwards; the gravy will then flow to the part which has been fi 3ROASTING. 66 take especial care it be even balanced on the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire operate equally on each part of it; therefore be provided with balancing* skewers, and cook- holds, and see it is properly jointed. All your attention in roasting, will be thrown away, if you do not take care, that your meat has been kept long enough to be tender The only uppermost, and tlie whole joint cut and eat most deli- ciously gravy-full. A Bottle-Jack, as it is termed by the furnishing ironmongers, is a valuable instrument for roasting. A Dutch Oven, is another very convenient utensil, for roasting tight joints, or warming them up. * Amongst the inventions, in the collection of the Society of Arts, in the Adelphi, is the model of a roasting balance, called the Oxford Balance, which it not thrust into the meat, but is screwed temporarily on the spit, and adjusted to the utmost nicety. t The time, meat should hang to be tender, depends, entirely on the degree of heat and humidity of the air ; if not kept long enough it is hard and tough; if too long, it loses its flavour; it should hang where it will have a tliorough air, and dry it well with a cloth night and morning, to keep it from growing damp and musty. When yon dress it, pare off the outsides, for they sometimes get a bad taste. If you fear meat will not keep till the day it is wanted, par-roast or par-boil it, and it will then keep a couple of days longer; then dress it in the usual way, only it will require rather less time.UOA9TTXO. G7 way to make sure of this, is to have it home, and hang it up in your own larder. If you have not a good airy place for this purpose, bespeak your meat and poultry three or four days before you wish to dress it. The Cook and the Butcher as often lose their credit, bij meat being dressed ton fresh, as the Fishmonger by fish that is too stale. Dr. Franklin, in his philosophical experiments, tells us, that game or poultry, &c. killed by electrtcity, may be dressed imme- diately, and will be deliciously tender. Make up the fire in time; let it be propor- tioned to the dinner to be dressed, and about four inches longer, at each end, than the thing to be roasted, or the ends of the meat cannot be done nice and brown. The chemists talk of their several degrees of heat, and the Cook must be as particular to proportion her fire to the business she has to do. The fire, that is but just sufficient to receive the noble sirloin, will parch up a lighter joint. From half an hour, to an hour, before it is necessary to begin to roast, prepare the fire, by putting a few coals on, Avhich will be suffi- ciently lighted by the time you wish to make use of your fire ; rake out the bottom, and press it down, so as to make the fire solid and good ; between the bars, and on the top, put smallKOASTING. 6'& round coal, or large coals, according to the butlcs O'f the joint, and the time the fire is required to- be strong; after which, throw all your cinders (wetted) at the back. Never put your meat down to a burnt up fire, if you can possibly avoid it; but having a large dinner to cook, should the fire become fierce, be sure to place the spit at a considerable distance, and allow your meat a little more time. Preserve the fat, by covering it with paper; keep by you, for this purpose, paper called “ kitchen paper,’' and fine twine, to tie it on : pins and skewers can by no means be allowed, as they are so many taps, to let out the gravy of your meat; besides, the paper with the heat of the fire often starts from them and catches light, to the great injury of the meat. If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should be little and brisk ; and when you have a large joint to roast, make up a sound, strong fire ; it must be equally good, in every part of the grate, especially at the ends, or your 7neat cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform colour on every part of it, which consti- tutes the beauty of good roasting. Give the fire a good stirring before you lay the joint down ; examine it every quarter of an hour, while the spit is going round; keep itROASTING. 69 clear at the bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in the front of it, which will spoil the look and taste of the meat, and hinder it from roasting evenly. When the joint to be roasted, is thicker at one end than the other, place the spit slanting, so that the thickest part is nearest the fire, and the thinnest preserved from being i overmuch roasted. Take care not to put your meat too near the fire; the larger the joint, the farther it must be kept from the fire‘s ; if once it gets scorched, the outside will become hard, (and acquire a dis- agreeable empyrheumatic taste,) and the fire being prevented from penetrating into it, the meat will ; appear enough, before it is little more than half | done, besides losing the pale brown colour, which it is the greatest Beauty of Roast meat to have. ‘ ‘I * From 14 to 10 inches is the usual distance at which 4 meat is put from the grate, vvlien first put down ; ^ it is extremely difficult, to offer any thing, like an accurate general rule for this, as it depends so mncli upon the size of the lire, and of that of the tiling to be roasted. Till some Culinary riiilosopher shall invent a thermometer to ascertain the degree of heat of the * fire, and a graduated spit rack to regulate the distam e * from it, the process of roasting is attended by so many ever-varying circumstances, that it must remain among those which can only be performed well, by . very frequent practice and attentive observation. . IIROASTINa. 70 If you wish your jack to go well, keep it as clean as possible, oil it, and then wipe it; if the oil is not wiped off again, it will gather dust to prevent this, as soon as you have done with your jack, cover it up. Never leave the winders' on whilst the jack is going round, unless, you. do it, as Swift says, that it may fly off, and knock those troublesome servants on the head who will be crowding round your kitchen fire. Be very careful, to place the dripping-pan at such a distance from the fire, as just to catch the drippings : if it is too near, the ashes will fall into it, and spoil the Drippings * ; (which Ave shall hereafter show, Avill be found not only an excellent substitute, but for many purposes decidedly superior to either butter or lard; —to clarify drippings, see No. 83, and Pease and Dripping Soup, No. 219); if it is too far from the fire to catch them, you will not only lose your drij)pings, but the meat will be black- ened, and spoiled by the foetid smoke, whicli. Avill arise when the fat falls on the live cinders. * Tills the good lionscwife will take up occasionally, as hy leaving it all in the dii|)ping-pan, until the meat is taken up, it not oidy becomes very strong, but when the meat is rich and yields much of it, it is apt to be spilt in basting.^—To clarify Drippings, see No. 83.tlOASTINt;. 71 The time Meat will take Roasting, will vary ■according to the temperature of the weather : the same weight will be twenty minutes, or half an hour longer in cold weather *, than it will be in warm. It is difHcult, to give any spccilic rule for time; but if your fire is made as before directed, your meat skreen sufficiently large to guard what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat is not frosted t, you cannot do better, than follow the old general rule of allowing a (juarter of an hour to the ])Ound ; a little more • If the ment it frozen, the usual practice is to put it into cold water till it is thawed, then dry and roast it as usual ; Init wc rccomuicnd you to bring it into the kitchen the night before you want to roast it, and the warm air will thaw it better than any other way. t A good meat skreen is a great saver of coals. The tin ones made by Lloyil, lurui.'biug iromnungci-, near Norfolk .Street, Strand, are infinitely the best; as they also answerall the purposes of a large Dutch oven, plate wanner, warm hearth, iN’C. He also sells bright BLOCK TIN CONCAVK RBFLECTORS, tO SCICW Oil the ends of the s])it, about six inches from the meat: these are very useful and economical, as they not only save fire, but are indispensably necessary to brown the ends of your joints ; without which, these parts will seldom be done as they should be. I'he same, and all other kitchen and ironmongery goods, are excellently well made by Brownley, Greek Street, Soho.72 ROASTING. or less, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with which you baste it; the more it is basted, the less time it will take, as it keeps the meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the fire thereby acts with more force upon it. It is a good general rule, when your joint is half done, to remove the spit and drippingpan back, and stir up your fire thoroughly, that it may burn clear and bright for the browning: when the steam from the meat, draws towards the fire*, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will be the best judge of that, from the time it has been down, the strength of the fire you have used, and the distance your spit has been from it. Half mi hour before your meat is done, make some gravy, Cos per Receipt, No. 326,) and just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it, baste it, and dredge it with flour care- fully ; you cannot do this delicately nice, xcithout a very good light ; the common fault, seems to be * When tlie stc.Tiii begins to arise, it is a proof that the wliolc joint is thoroughly saturated with heat; any unnecessary evaporation, is a waste of the best iiourishinenl of the meat.73 ROASTING. using’ too mucli flour; the meat should liave a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of being covered with a paste ; those who are particular about the froth, must use Butter instead of dripping; (see Receipt to Roast a Turkey, No. 57 ;) “ ami send up what yon roast, witli relisli-giving froth," says my poetical predecessor Dr. King, so pre- senting an agreeable appearance to the eye, the palate may be prepossessed in its favour at first sight. A Good Cook, is as anxiously attentive to the appearance, and colour of her Roasts, as a Court Beauty is to her Complexion, at a Birthday Ball. Though Roasting is one of the most common, and is generally considered one of the most easy and simple processes of Cookery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it per- fectly w'ell, than it does to made most made- dishes. That Made-dishes, are the most difficult preparations, I think really deserves to be reckoned among the culinary vulgar errors; for in these tlic Cook has nothing to do but follow the Receipt, and cannot very easily fail : but in plain roasting and boiling, it is not easy 0) repair a mistake once made; and all the dis- u74 ROASTIKG. cretion and attention of a steady careful Cook, must be unremittingly upon the alert * A celebrated Frencli writer lias made tlie following^ observations on roasting: “ The art of roasting victuals to the precise degree, is one of the most difficult in this world, and you may find a thousand good cooks sooner than one perfect roaster : (See “ Almanack ties Gourmands,” vol. i. p. 37.) In the mansions of the opulent they have, besides the chief cook, a Roaster, (perfectly independent of the former,) who is exclusively devoted to the spit. All erudite gourmands know these two important functions cannot be performed by one artist, and that it is quite impossible at the same time to direct the operations of the spit, and the stewpan.”—Further on, the same author observes: “ No certain rules can be given for roastiiiff, the perfection of it depending on many cir- cumstances which are continually changing; the age, size, shape, and nature of the pieces, the quality of the coals,- the temperature of the atmosphere, the currents of air in the kitchen, the more or less attention of the roaster; and, lastly, the time of serving. For sup- posing the dinner ordered to be on table at a certain time, if the fish and soup are much liked, and detained longer than the roaster has calculated ; or, on the con- trary, iflhcy are dispatched sooner than is expected, the roasts will in one rase be burnt up, in the other not done enough — two misfortunes equally to be de- plored. The first, however, is without a remedy , five mimilcs on the sjdt more or less, decides the poodness (?/' this mode of cookery; and it is almost impossible to seize the precise instant when it ought to be eaten:IT, ROASTING. A diligent attention to time, the distance of the meat from, and judicious management of, the tire, and frequent bastings *, all the general rules wc wliicli epicures in roasts express, by saying, ‘ It is done to a turn.’ .So that there is no exaggeration in saying, tlie perfect roaster, is even more rare, than the pro- fessed cook. “ In small families, where the cook is also the roaster. It is almost impossible the roasts should be well done -, the spit claims exclusive attention, and is an imperious mistress, who demauds the entire devotion of her slave. But how can this be? When the cook, is obliged at the same time, to attend her fish and soiij) kettles, and watch her stewpans and all their accompaniments, it is morally and physically impossible; if she gives that delicate and constant attention to the roasts, which is indispensably requisite, the rest of the dinner must often be spoilt ; and most cooks would rather lose their character as a roaster, than neglect the made-dishes and ‘ entremets,’ &e. where they think they can dis- play their culinary science, than sacrifice these to the roasts, the perfection of which, will only prove their steady vigilance and patience. • Our ancestors were very particular in their bas- tings and diedgings, as will be seen by the following quotation from ‘‘ Clay’s Accomplished Cook," London, 166.5, p. 136. — “The rarest ways of diessing of all manner of roast meats, either flesh or fowl, by sea or land, and divers ways of breading or dredging meats to prevent the gravy from too much evaporating. Dredgings. ). Flour mixed with grated bread. n 276 ROASTING. can prescribe for roasting in perfection ; we shall deliver particular rules for particular things, as the several articles occur, and do our utmost endeavours to instruct our reader as com- pletely as words can describe the process, and teach. “ The nianagcivient of common things so well, “ That what was thought the meanest shall excel : “ That Cook’s to British palates most complete. Whose sav’ry skill gives zest to common meat: “ For what are your soups, your ragouts, and your sauce, “ Compar’d to the fare of old England, “ And old English Roast Beef!” Take Notice, t/ia( the time given in the folio-wing Receipts is calculated for those who like their meat thoroughly roasted. Some good housewives order very large joints to be rather underdone — as they then make a better Hash or Broil. Q. .Sweet herbs dried and powdered, and mixed with grated bread. 3. Lemon peel dried and pounded, or orange peel mixed with flour. 4. Sugar linely powdered, and mixed with pounded cinnamon, and (lour, or grated bread. 5. Fennel seeds, corianders, cinnamon, and sugar, finely beaten, and inixeil with grated bread or flour.77 ROASTING. To make GRAVY for Roasts, see (No. 326.) N. B. ROASTS, to be eaten in perfection, must not be put on the table, till the Soup and Fish are removed. 6. For young pigs, grated bread or (lour mixed with beaten nutmeg, ginger, pepper, sugar, and yolks of eggs. 7. Sugar, bread, and salt mixed. Bastings. 1. Fresh butter. 5!. Clarified suet. d. INliueed sweet herbs, butter and claret, c.specially for mutton and lamb. 4. \Fater and salt. .5. Cream and melted butter, especially for a (layed pig'- (i. Yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, and juice of oranges.RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY CHAPTER HI. FRYING. Fr YiNG is often a convenient mode of cookery, as it may be performed on a fire which will not do for roasting or broiling; and by the intro- duction of the pan between the meat and the fire, things get more equally dressed. The Dutch Oven is another very convenient utensil for small things, and a very useful substitute for the jack, the gridiron, or fryingpan. A frying- pan should be about two inches and a half deep, with perpendicular sides, and the articles should float in the hot fat, carefully keeping them from the sides. Be very particular, in frying, never to use any oil, butter, lard, or drippings, but what is quite clean, fresh, and free from salt. Any thing dirty spoils the look; any thing bad tasted or stale spoils the flavour; and salt pre- vents its taking a browning. Fine Olive oil.FRYING. 79 IS by far tlie most delicate for frying; but to have the best oil is very expensive, and liad oil spoils every thing that is dressed with it. For general purposes, ami especially for fish, or bread, clean fresh lard * is as good as any thing to fry with; it is not so expensive as oil or clarified butter, and does almost as well, except for cutlets and collops. Butter often burns, before you are aware of it, and what yon fry will get a dark and dirty appearance. If you use Oil, it must be the best olive or salad oil; the inferior eating oil is often bad tasted and stale. Cooks in large kitchens, where there is a great deal of frying, commonly use two parts of mutton suet, and one part of beef suet, (if from the kidney, all the better). Drippings, if clean and fresh, are very good to fry with ; if thgy are not clean, they may be easily clarified by the means dii-ected for that purpose in (No. 83.) To know when the fat is of a proper heat, according to what you are to fry, is the great secret in frying. To fry fill, parsley, potatoes, or any thing that contains much water, your frt must he * If drained througli a liair sieve, it will do a sceoiid time as well as it docs the first.FRYIXG. 80 very sharp and clear, and the fat extremely hot *, which you may be pretty sure of, when it has done hissing and is still. We cannot insist too strongly on this point; if the fat is not very hot, you cannot fry fish either to a good colour, or firm and crisp t. Bread, eggs, and little things must be put into the pan as soon as the fat is melted; be- * To be quite certain, the best way is to throw a little bit of parsley or bread into the pan; if it fries crisp, the fat is ready ; if it burns the bread, it is too hot; cut a turnip in slices and put in it; this takes off the heat of the fat and the burnt taste sooner than any tliiii". t The fire tinder the pan must be clear and sharp, other- wise the fat is so long before it becomes ready, and demands siicli attendanee to prevent the accident of its catching fire f, the patience of cooks is exhausted, and they frequently, from ignorance, or impatience, throw in what they are going to fry before the fat is half hot enough. Whatever is so fried, will be pale and sodden, and ott'end the palate and stomach, not less than the eye. } If this unfortunately happens, be not in the least alarmed, but immediately wet a blanket and hold it close all round the fire-place, and as soon as the cur- rent of wind is stopped, the fire will be extinguished : with a ciiARCoAi, stove there is no danger of the chimney catching, as the diameter of the pari exceeds that of the fire.81 FRYINO. cause less fat, being wanted, it gets hot so imicli sooner; such articles would be burnt instead of fryed. Always have a good light to fry by, that you may see when you have got the riglit colour: a lamp fixed on a stem with a loaded foot, which has an arm that will lengthen out, and slide up and down like a reading candlestick, is a most ustful appendage to kitchen fire-places, which are very seldom light enough for the nicer operations of cookery. After all, if you do not thoroughly drain the fat Jfom what you have fried, especially from those things that are full dressed in bread crumbs, your cooking will do yon no credit. To fry fish in general, see the Receipt to fry soles, (No. 145,) which is the only circumstan- tial account of the process that has yet been printed. If the cook will study it with a little attention, she will soon learn to fry fish in the utmost perfection. Fried things should have colour enough given them by pressing tbem against the pan, to brown them nicely, (and not have the appearance of being boiled), that the eye may be immediately able to inform tbc |)alate, how a chop has been cooked. Frying, though one of the most common of culinary operations, is one of those that is least commonly performed well.RUDIMENTS OF COOKERV CHAPTER IV. BROILING. Cleanliness is extremely essential in this mode of cookery. Keep your gridiron quite clean between the bars, and bright on the top ; and when it is hot, wipe it well with a linen cloth ; just before you use it, rub the bars with clean mutton suet, which will prevent the meat from being marked by the gridiron ; take care to prepare your fire in time, so that it may burn very clear; the briskness and clearness of the fire are indispensible; or you cannot give your meat that browning which constitutes the perfection of this mode of cookery, and gives a relish to food it cannot receive any other way. ^ ery frequent turning is necessary to some things, and very little toothers; be very attentive to watch the moment any thing is done; never hasten in any manner any thing that is broiling, lest you make smoke and spoil I83 BROILING. it. Let tlie bars of the gridiron be all hot through, but yet not burning hot upon the surface: this is the perfect and fine condition of the gridiron ; for if it is hastily heated, the bars will be hot enough to scorch the things laid on them on the outside. The bars keep away as much heat as their breadth covers. It is absolutely necessary they should be tho- roughly hot before the thing to be cooked be laid on them. The bars of gridirons should be made concave, and terminate in a trough to catch the gravy; and also keep the fat from dropping into the fire and making a smoke, which will spoil your broil. The Upright fliuDiRONS are the best, as they can be used at any hre, without fear of smoke; and the gravy is preserved in the trough under them.RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY CHAPTER V. VEGETABLES. Theke is nothing in which the difference be-* tween an elegant and an ordinary table is more seen, tlian in the dressing of vegetables, more especially of greens: they may be equally as fine at first, at one place as at another; but their look and taste are afterwards very dif- ferent, and this entirely from the careless way in which they are cooked. They are in highest perfection, when in greatest plenty, i. e. when in full season. By season, I do not mean those early days, that luxury in the buyers, and avarice in the sellers about London force the various vege- tables; but that time of the year in which by nature, common culture, and the mere operation of the sun and climate, they arc in most plenty and perfection in this country. As to the (|uality of vegetables, freshness is theirVEGETABLES. 85 I chief value and excellence ; the eye easily diseovers if they have been kept too long; they soon lose their beauty in all respects. Roots, greens, &c. and the various productions of the garden, when first gathered, arc plump and firm, and have a fragrant freshness, no art can give them again, when they liave lost it by long keeping; though it will revive them a little to put them into cold spring waiter for some time. They are in greatest perfection just before they come to their full growth. Soft water will preserve the colour best of such as are green; if yon have only hard water, put to it a teaspoonful of salt of wormwood, or pearl-ash. Take care to v:ash and cleanse them from dust, dirt, and insects; this requires great attention: pick off all the outside leaves, and trim them nicely, and lay them in a pan of clean water for an hour before you dress them. They should always be boiled in a saucepan by themselves, and have plenty of water ; if meat is boiled wuth them in the same pot, they will spoil the look, and taste of each other. The ivater must always boil before yon put in your greens, which should boil briskly, in an open saucepan; the (piicker they boil, the greener they will be; when the vegetables sink, they arc generally done enough, if the waterVEGETABLES. 86 has been kept constantly boiling. Take them up immediately, or they mil lose their colour and goodness. Drain the water from them thoi'oughly before you send them to table. This humble branch of cookery, requires the most vigilant at- tention : if Vegetables are too long over the fire, they lose all their beauty and flavour; if not thoroughly boiled tender, they are tre- mendously indigestible, and much more trouble- some during their residence in the stomach, than underdone meats. To preserve or give colour in cookery, many good dishes are spoiled, but the rational Epicure, who makes nourish- ment the main end of eating, will be content to sacrifice the shadow, to enjoy the substance. Vide Obs. to (No. 322.) Once for all, take care your vegetables are fresh; for as the fishmonger often sutfers for the sins of the cook, so the cook often gets undeservedly blamed for the sins of the green- grocer : Vegetables in this metropolis, are often kept so long, that no art can make them either look or eat well. N. B. When Greens, &c. are quite fresh ga- thered, they will not require so much boiling, by at least a third of the time, they take when they have been gathered the usual time, those arc that arc brought to public markets.I 2 > KUDIME^^S OF COOKERY. CHAPTER VI. FISH. "^rms department of the business of the kitchen depends more upon practice tiian any other; a very few moments, more or less, will thoroughly spoil Fish; which to be eaten in perfection, must never be put on the Table till the Soup is taken of. So many circumstances operate on this occasion, it is almost impossible to write general rules. There are decidedly dif- ferent opinions, whether the water should be cold, tepid, or boiling. The Dutch, who are famous for dressing fish, always use the latter. See (No. 141.) We, believe for some of the fame the Dutch cooks have acquired, they are a little indebted to their situation enabling them always to have, fish in perfection, it costing them little more than the trouble of catching it: and that the superior excellence of the fish in Holland, is Itecause none are used, unlessFISH. 88 they are brought alive into the kitchen, (mackerel excepted, which die the moment they are taken out of the water) The Dutch are as nice about this as, Seneca says, the Romans* were; who, complaining of the luxury of the times, says, “ they are come to that daintiness, they will not eat a fish, nnless upon the same day that it is taken, that it may taste of the sea, as they express it.” On the Dutch flat coast, the fish are all taken with nets; whereas, on our rocky coast, fish are mostly caught by bait and hook, which im- mediately kills them. The fish are brought alive by land, to the Dutch markets in water- casks with air holes in the top. Salmon, and other fish, are thus preserved in rivers, in a well-hole, in the fishing boat. The good folks of this metropolis are so often disappointed, by having fish which have been kept too long, that they are apt to run into the other extreme, and suppose no fish will either dress well, or eat well, unless it is absolutely alive. Several respectable fishmon- gers have, however, assured the editor, that * They had salt water preserves for feeding different kinds of Sea fish; those in the ponds of Liiculhis, at his dcatli, sold for 25,000/. sterling.IISH. 89 they are as often in danger of losing their credit, by selling fish too fresh, and especially turbot and cod, which must be kept a day or two, before they will eat well. Like meat, they require a certain time before they arc in the best condition to be dressed : and then they recommend them to be put into hot water, (salted in proportion of about a quarter of a pound of salt to a gallon of water,) that you have just stopped the boiling of, by pouring in, just before you put in the fish, a pint of cold water, and let them boil slowly till done; the sia;n of which is, that the fish will leave the bone. It is the business of the Fish- monger to clean them well, &c. but the careful cook will sometimes find it necessary to wash them again. OI)s. Experienced Housewives have been known to put a piece of alum (as big as a large hazel nut) into the water, to make tlie fish firm.er. N.B. Fish, like meat, requires more cooking in cold than in warm weather; and if it be- comes frcjzen, must be thawed by the means we have directed for meat, in the 6th page of the 2(1 Chapter of tlie Rudiments of Cookery. To go to market for fish, see Mr. Wm. Tucker’s 6)bservation's, after (No. 182.) FISH SAUCES, fie. Quintessence of Anchovy, I 3FISH. 90 see (No. 433.) Soy, (No. 436.) Musliroom Catsup, (No. 439.) Cayenne, or Chilli Vine- gar, (No. 405.) Lemons or Lemon Juice, &c. must be found at all well served Tables; but Cooks who are jealous of the reputation of their Taste ; and Housekeepers who value their Health, will prepare these articles at home; there are quite as many reasons why they should, as there are for the preference usually given to Home-baked Bread, and Home-brewed Beer, &c.RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY CHAPTER VIE BROTH, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. It is liardly necessary to give any more cau- tions to tlie cook to pay continual attention to tlie condition of her stewpans* and soup-kettles, whicli should be examined every time they are used; these and their covers must be kept perfectly clean and well tinned, not only on the inside, but about a couple of inches on the outside; so many mischiefs arise from tlieir getting out of repair, and if not kept nicely tinned, all your good work will he in vain; the I'roths and soups will look green and dirty, and taste bitter and poisonous, and will be spoiled both for the eye and palate, and your * tVe prefer the form of a stewpan, to tlie sotip-pot, l)ccanse the former is more convenient to skim ; tlic most useful size is 12 inclies diameter by (> inches deep, this we would have of Silver—or Iron, or Copper lined (not plated) with Silver.92 liROTllS, GRAVIES, AMI SOUPS. credit will be lost; and as the health, and even life of the family depends upon this, the Cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the Tinman’s bill than the Doctor’s; therefore, attention to this cannot fail to engrasre the re- g-ard of the Mistress, between whom and the Cook, it will be my utmost endeavour to pro- mote perfect Harmony. If a servant has the misfortune to scorch or blister the tinning of her saucepan, which will happen sometimes to the most careful cook, 1 advise her, by all means, immediately to ac- quaint her employers, who will thank her for so candidly mentioning the accident; and cen- sure her deservedly if she conceals it. Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tammy cloths, spoons and ladles, and make it a rule without an exception, never to use them till they are well cleaned, and thoroughly dried, nor any stewpans, &c., without first washing them out with boiling water, and rubbing them well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to clean them from accidents of grease and sand, &c. or any bad smell they may have got since they were last used; never neglect this. Though we do not suppose our cook to be such a naughty slut, as to wilfully neglect her brothBHOTJIS, GilAVUiS, AND SOUl’S. 93 pots, d’C. till she has thoroughly cleaned* them: yet we may recommend her to wash them immediately, and he sure they are tho- roughly dried before the fire, before tlu'y are put by, and kept in a dry place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon; attend to this the first moment you can spare after the dinner is sent up; and never put by any soup, gravy, &c., in a metal utensil; stone or earthen vessels should be used for this purpose. Cul- tivate regular habits of cleanliness, dire, in all your business, which you will then get through easily and comfortably. 1 do not mean that restless spirit of “ the Tidy one,” who is always frisking about, in a whirlpool of bustle and * Stewpans anil soup-pots, witli round bottoms such as saucepans arc made with, will wear twice as long, and are cleaned with half the Ironhle, as those whose sides are soldered to the hotloin; for the sand and grease get into the joined part, and it is next to an impossibility, to dislodge the dirt completely. Take care also, that the lids fit as close as possible, that the broth, soup, <S;c. may not waste by evaporation. They are good for nothing, unless they fit tight enough to kee|) the steam in, and the smoke out. Stewpans and saucepans should he always bright on the upper rim, where the lire does not burn them j but to scoui- them to the bottom, is not only giving the Cook needless trouble, but wearing out the vessels.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 94 confusion ; and is always dirty, under pretence of being always cleaning. Broths differ from soups, as they are in- ferior in strength, and composed with fewer ingredients; they are more easy to make, and lead to the art of making gravies, soups, and sauces. Lean juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of these ; procure those pieces which aftord the most and the richest succulence, and as fresh killed as possible*. Stale meat will make your broth thick and bad tasted, and fat meat is not only wasted, but occasions the broth very soon to turn sour. This only applies to those brotlis which are required to be perfectly clear; we sliall show hereafter, that fat and drippings may be so combined with vegetable mucilage, as to afford, at the small cost of lOd. per gallon, a very nourishing, palatable, and balsamic soup. See Soup-Herb Soup in twenty minutes, (No. 228,) and Soon-made Savoury Soup (No. 229,) and Pease Soup (218,) &c. * III fieneiul, it lias been considered the best economy to use (he clieapest aiul most inferior meats for soup, ■See. and to boil it down to rags. I think this a false frugality; and advise yon to buy good pieces of meat and only stew them till they are done enough to be eaten.95 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. The following Broth Herbs, Soup Roofs, ami Seasonings, Scotch barley. Pearl barley. Flour, Bread, Raspings, Oatmeal, Peas, Beans, Rice, Vermicelli, Maccaroni, Isinglass, Potatoe mucilage, (448,) Mushrooms*, Champignons, Parsnips, Carrots, Beet roots, Turnips, Garlick, Shallots,see (No.402.) Onions 4, Leeks, Cucumber, Celery, Celery seecU, * Miislirooin Catsup, made as (No. <139,) or (No. 440,) will answer all the purpose of musliroonis in soup or sauce, and no store-room should he without a stock of it. t AH Cooks agree in this opinion. No savoury dish without an Onion. Sliced onions fried (jiiite Inown, with some l)iitter and Hour, are excellent to heighten the colour and flavour of brown soups and sauces; the older and drier the onion, the stronger its flavour, and the Cook will regulate the quantity she uses accordingiv. } The concentration of flavour in Celery seeds is such, that half a di aclim of it, will impregnate a gallon of soup, with more relish than two or three heads of theBROtHS, GUAVIKS, AND SOUPS, 96 Parsley*, Common thyme*. Lemon thyme*, Orange tliyme*, Knotted marjorum *, Sage*, Mint, Winter savoury *, Sweet basil*, Bay leaves, Tarragon, Chervil, Allspicef, Cinnamont, Ginger t, Nutmeg t, Clovei, Mace+, Black peppertj White peppert, Lemon-peel t. Lemon-juice II, Seville orange juiced, Essence of Anchovy, see (No. 433.) corn- make Burnet, ine and mushroom catsup, (No. 439), bined in fifty different proportions, will fresh vegetable. This valuable acquisition to the soup- pot deserves to be universally known. See also (Xo. 409,) Essence of Celery. * See (No. 419) and (No. 420,) and (No. Jj9.) P>asil is often not to be procured, (sec No. .‘597,) to procure and preserve the flavour of sweet and savoury hei bs, Celery, Xe. t .Sec (No. 421,) and (No. 4.57.) { See (No. 407,) and (No. 408.) II If yon iiavc not fresh orange or lemon juice, or the chrystalized lemon acid, a little good vinegar i.s the best substitute for it. ( The Juice of the Seville orange is to be prefened to leinou-juiee ; the fla\ our is lint r and the acid uiildt i.BJIOTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 97 an endless variety * of excellent broths am! soups, quite as pleasant to the palate, and incalculably more useful and agreeable to the stomach, than consuming pheasants and par- tridges, and the long list of inflammatory pi- quante, and rare and costly articles, recom- mended by former Cookery book makers, whose elaborately compounded soups, are like their made dishes; in which, though variety is aim- ed at, every thing has the same taste, and no- thing its own. The general fault of our English soups, seans to he the anploytnent of an excess of Spice, and too small a proportion of roots and herhs\. Besides the ingredients 1 have enumerated, many culinary scribes indiscriminately cram into * Tlie enuiite editor of the “ Almanack dcs Gour- mands,” vol. ii. p. 30, tells us, that ten folio volumes would not contain the receipts of alt the soups that have been invented in that grand school of good eating, the Parisian kitchen. t “ Point des Legumes, point de Cuisiniere,” is a favourite culinary adage of the I’rench kitchen ; and de- serves to be so ; a better soup may be made with a eouple of pounds of meat and ]>lenty of vegetables, than our common Cooks will make yon with four times that ipiantity of meat; alt for want of knowing the uses of soup roots, and sweet and savoury herbs.98 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. almost every dish, anchovies*, garlickf, bay leaves, and that hot fiery spice Cayenne pep- per, which strange, passing strange to believe, has somehow or other unaccountably acquired a character for being very wholesome, whilst * Soy, Cavice, Coratcli, Aiicliovies, Curry powder, Browning, Catsups, Pickle liquor. Beer, and Wine, are occasionally very convenient auxiliaries to finish soups, &C.: the proportion of wine should not exceed a large wineglassful to a quart of soup : this is as much as can be admitted, w’ithout the vinous flavour be- coming remarkably predominant; though much larger quantities are ordered in many books; so much are they overloaded with relish, that if you make soups according to their receipts, and will eat enough of them, they will certainly make you drunk, if they don’t make you sick — all this, frequently arises from an old Cook measuring the excitability of the eaters' palates, by his own, which may be so blunted by incessant tasting, that to awaken it, requires wine instead of water, and Cayenne and garlick, for black pepper and onion. Cooks too often season SOUP, (wbicb is intended to constitute a principal part of a meal,) as highly as SAUCE, of which only a spoonful may be relish enough tor a plate of insipid Viands. t IMany a good dish is spoiled, by the cook not knowing the proper use of this, which is to give a flavour, and not to be predominant over the other in- gredients; a morsel mashed with the point of a knife, and stirred in, is enough. .See (No. 405.')BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 99 the weaker peppers and spices, are universally cried down, as dcstroyina: the sensibility of the palate, and stomach, &c., and being: the source of a thousand mischiefs. The best thing that has been said in praise of pepper, is, “ that “ with all kinds of vegetables, as also with “ Soups and Fish, either black or Cayenne “pepper may be taken freely; they are the “ most useful stimulants to old stomachs, and “ often supersede the cravings for strong drinks; “ or diminish the quantity otherwise reipiired.” See Car/iilc on Old Agv, bondon, 1817. We Uaic tho\e who love these things, tu tt\e them as they like ; their Havour can be very extempora- neously produced by Chilly-juice, or essence of Cayenne, Eshallot wine, and Essence of An- chovy* We again caution the Cook to avoid over-seasoning, es/iccially with those predominant Jiavonrs. which, however agranhle they may be to some, arc more extremely disagreiable to others. Truffles and morels are also set down as a part of most rcceijits. These have a very rich, high flavour, and are delicious additions to some dishes, or sent up as a stew by them- selves, when they are fresh and tine; but in • For preparin'' tlic.se, yon will (iml the be.st receipts in tlic chapter of sauces, .ic. See (Nos. 40.i, 402, .Sc 43.’>.) K 2100 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. this state they are not served up half a dozen times in a year at the first nobleman’s table in the kingdom; when they are dried, they generally lose their flavour, and serve only to soak up good gravy, from which they take more taste than_they give. The great art of com- posing a rich soup, is so to proportion the se- veral ingredients one to another, that no par- ticular taste be stronger than the rest; but to produce such a fine, harmonious, and delicious relish, that the whole is delightful ; this re- quires a very judicious combination of the ma- terials, and constitutes the “ chef-d\ruvrc’ of culinary science. In the first place, take cai-e that the roots and herbs be perfectly well cleaned, and pro- portion the water not only to the quantity of meat*, and other ingredients, but to the sort of fire you intend to use. If you have a brisk lire, a great deal more water must be put in than you intend to have broth; but if it be to stew gently, then little more water need be put in at first than is expected at the end; for when the pot is covered quite closet, and the * Generally a poinul of meat to a quart of water, for soups; and double tliat quantity for gravies. t It is of the first importance, that the cover of a101 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. fire gentle, very little is wasted. In most cases, gentle stewing is incomparably the best, and both the meat and the soup eat the better for it. By quick and strong boiling, not only all the volatile and finest parts of the ingredients are evaporated, and fly oil’ with the steam, but the coarser parts are rendered soluble; so you lose the good, and get the bad. The slower they stew or simmer the better. Soups will generally take from three to six hours. If possible, always prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want them. This will not only give you more time to attend to the rest of your dinner the next day; but when tile soup is cold, the fat may be much more easily and completely removed from the surface of it; when you decant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at tlie bottom of the vessel, which are so fine, that they will escape through your tammis, or sieve, and can only be got rid of in this manner. 'I'lie full flavour of the ingredients can only be ex- tracted by very long and slow simmering; during which, taU care to prrcait the evapo- ration of the iteam, by covering your pot as soup kettle should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are aware of it. K ■'•! s102 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. dose as possible: perhaps the best stewpot is the cast iron digester'*’, made by Moser and Co. in Greek Street, Soho: in this the nutritive qualities of the meat are preserved, the steam being prevented escaping by the lid fitting ex- actly into a screw groove. Your clear soups must be perfectly transpa- rent, and your thickened soups about the con- sistence of ricli cream. Bread raspings, bread crumbsf, biscuit pow- der J, isinglass, potatoe mucilage, fat skimmings and Hour, or flour and butter, or flour, or oat- meal and water rubbed well together, and the materials commonly used to thicken\\, and give a body to our soups. To give that glutinous * Tlie water in the digester is never made to boil, so that tliere is no exhalation of volatile parts; and although the solution is made with great success, and may be carried to any degree required, yet, if it go not too far, the meat may be rendered very tender, while it retains its most sapid parts, and remain rat- able, and useful in the family. t To thicken with bread : take the ernmb of a French rol’, boil it in a little of the soup, beat it in a mortar, and rub it tlirongh a sieve, or coarse cloth; pour this into your soup, and give it a boil up afterwards. :t In the proportion of a teaenpful to a quart of soup. II Wliatcvever materials are used for this purpose, must be gradually mixed with the soup, till they are thoroughly incorporated with it; and it should have.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 103 quality of taste, so much admired in mock- turtle, there is nothing like a cow-hcd, (which is an improvement to almost every soup,) it must not be a ready dressed one, such as are sold at the tripe shops, from which all the glutinous part has been extracted, but one that has only been scalded and scraped. To their very rich gravies, &c. the French add the breasts of partridges and fowls, beaten to a pulp in a marble mortar; a piece of the beef you have, which has been boiled to make broth or gravy, pounded in the like manner, with a bit of butter and flour, and gradually well in- corporated with the gravy or soup, will be found an excellent substitute for these more expensive articles. ISIcat from which broth has been made, and all the juice has been extracted, is then excellently well prepared for potting, see (No. 503,) and is quite as good, or better than that which has been baked till it is dry*; indeed if it be pounded, and seasoned in the usual manner, it will be an elegant and savoury at least, iialfaii hour’s gentle simmering after; if it is at all lumpy, pass it through a fine hair sieve. Sec (No. 257.) * If the Gravy, is not completely drained from it, the article potted, will turn sour in a couple of days.104 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. luncheon or supper dish, and costs nothing, but the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, and a delicious relish is procured, for sandwiches, &c., of what heretofore, has been by the poorest housekeeper, considered the perquisite of the cat. Keep some spare broth, lest your Soup liquor waste in boiling, and get too thick. If it is too thin, or too weak, take off the cover of your soup-pot, and let it boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated, or else, add some of the Thickening materials we have be- fore mentioned; and have at hand some plain browning; see (No. 322,) and the Ob.s. thereon. This simple preparation is much better than any of the compounds bearing that name, as it colours your sauce or soup, without nnich in- terfering with its flavour, and is a much better way of colouring soup, &c. than burning the surface of the meat. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day, in hot weather, they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh scalded tureens, or pans; in temperate weather, every other day may be enough. We hope we have now put the common Cook into possession of the whole arcana of Soupmaking, without much trouble to herself, or expense to her employers; and that it will not be said, inBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. luo future, that an Englishman only knows how to make Soup in his Stomach, by swilling- down a large quantity of Ale, or porter, to quench the thirst occasioned by the Meat he eats; John Bull may now make his soup “ secundem artem,” and save his principal viscera a great deal of trouble. In the following Receipts wc huie directed the spices* and Jlaiouring to be added at the usual time; but it would greatly improxc the soups, if the wine, spices, cyc., which are used to fnish than, were not put in above Jifteen or twenty minutes before the Jinish. A continued strong heat soon dissipates the spirit of the wine, and evaporates the aroma andJiavour of the spices and herbs. In ordering the proportions of me.vt, butter,, WINE, &c. the proper quantity is set down, and less will not do: we have carried Economy quite as far as possible; and to attempt fur- ther, would be “ spoiling the broth Jbr a. half- pennyworth of salt." Since writing the above, the following cor- ** These, Economists recoinmeml to lie pounded, they certainly go farther, as they call it j hut we think they go too far, for they go through tlu- sieve, ami make the soup look grouty and dirty.106 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AKD SOUPS. roboration of my opinion has been given me by that scientific culinary amateur, Apkius Caslius, junr. “ The great fault of ancient and of modern cookery has consisted in the employment of the various articles of seasoning or condiment, ■which, on the application of heat, evaporate, and, from the volatization of their more subtle parts, the true flavour of these sub- stances have been destroyed. Wine, spices, anchovy, and many ingredients, when stewed for a considerable time, lose the best part of their flavour.” “ A. C.junr.” 1 conclude these remarks, with observing, that many persons imagine Soup tends too much to relax the Stomach—so far from being pre- judicial, we consider the moderate use of such liquid nourishment, to be highly salutary. Does not all our food, and drink, even though cold, become in a few minutes a kind of warm soup in the stomach; and therefore. Soup, if not eaten too hot, or in too great a quantity, and of proper quality, is attended with great ad- vantages, especially to those who drink but little.—Fluids used in the form of Soup, unite with our juices much sooner, and better, thanBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 107 when drunk cold and raw — on this account, Soup, is the best nourishment for old people, and those whose digestive organs are impaired. After catching cold, in nervous headachs, cho- lics, and different kinds of cramp in the sto- mach, warm Broth is of excellent service, and after intemperate feasting, to give the stomach a holiday, by a days diet on mutton broth or a Vegetable Soup, or (No. 218,) &c. is the best way to restore its Tone. See also (No. 568.)RUDIMENTS OF COOKERY CHAPTER VIII. GRAVIES AND SAUCES. The Spirit of each di.sh, and zest of all, Is what ingenious Cooks tlie relish call; For though the market sends in loads of food, They all are tasteless, till that makes them good. “ King’s Art of Cookiry." I t is of as much importance that the Cook should know how to make a boat of good Gravy for her roast Poultry, &c. as that should he sent up of proper complexion, and nicely frothed: in this Chapter we shall eudeavour to introduce to her alt the materials* which * Sec in page tifth of the seventh chapter of the Kudiments of Cookery, a catalogue of the ingredients in .soups, .sauces, \c.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. | 09 g-ive flavour, in Sauce, (which is the Essence of Soup, and intended to contain more relish in a teaspoonful, than the former does in a table- spoonful.) And the artificial methods, of ma- king substitutes for those ingredients, that are always expensive, and often not to be had at all. This is the most difficult part of the bu- siness of the Kitchen, and most interesting, in as much as a great deal of the elegance of Cookery depends upon the accompaniments to each dish being appropriate, and well adapted to it. I can assure my readers, no attention has been wanting on my part to render this department of the work worthy their perusal ; each receipt, is the faithful narrative of actual and repeated experiments, and has received the most deliberate consideration before it was here presented to them. It is given in the most circumstantial manner, and not in the technical, and mysterious languao'c former wri- ters on these subjects seem to have preferred • by which their directions are useless and un- intelligible to all who have not regularly served an apprenticeship at the stove. Thus, instead of minutely enumerating the quantities, and explaining the process of each composition, they order a ladleful of Slock, a pint of Con- somme, and a spoonful of Cm//A; as if a private' Lno GllAVIES AND SAUCES. family Cook had always at hand a soup-kettle full of Stock, a store of Consomme, and the larder of a London tavern, and the spoons and pennyworths were the same in all ages. It will be to very little purpose I have taken so much pains to teach how to manage the roasts and boils, if the Cook cannot, or will not make the several sauces that are usually sent up with them. The most homely fare may be made relishing, and the most excellent and independent, improved by a well made sauce*, which is as a varnish to a picture ; 1 shall therefore endeavour to give the plainest directions how to produce, with the least trouble and expense f possible, all the various compo- * It is the duty of a good sauce, (says the editor of the “ Almunach des Gourmands,” vol. v. page 6,) to in- sinuate itself, all round and about the ina.xillary glands, and imperceptibly awaken into activity each ramifica- tion of the organs of taste : if not sufficiently savoury, it cannot produce this effect, and if too piquante, it will paralyze, instead of exciting, those excpiisitely de- licious titillations of tongue, vibrations of palate, and voluptuous gustatory orgasnias, that only the most ac- complished philosophers of the mouth, can produce on the highly educated palates of thriee happy Grand Gourmands. t To save time and tronhle is the most valuable fru- gality j and if the mistress of a family will condescendGRAVIES AND SAUCES. Ill sitions the English kitchen affords for the amusement of .lohn Bull, and hope to present t not only a wholesome, but palatable variety to ' suit all tastes, and all pockets; so that the ^ Cook may give satisfaction in all families; the more combinations of this sort she is acquainted with, the better she will comprehend the ma- nagement of every one of them. l' 1 have only rejected some outlandish farra- goes*; from a conviction they were by no means adapted to an English palate, though they have been received into some English j books, for the sake of swelling the volume*: I believe they will never be received by an i to devote a little time to tlic profitable and pleasant '= employment of jneparin" some of the concentrated t essences, the manner of making which I have so jilainly i described in tlie following chapter, many dishes may , be dressed with half the usual time ami trouble, and tiavonred and finished with much more certainty than ' by the common methods. A small portion, of the time, | which young Ladies sacriticc, to torturing the strings | of their Piano-h'orte, employed in obtaining these do- mestic accomplishments — might not make them worse | wives, or less agreeable companions to their Husbands. * Were these books reduced to their Quintessence; many a bulky author would make his appearance in a t| Penny Paper. Sec Spectator, No. 124. Obs. on the An of l?ook-making, cS^c. I. 2 1GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 112 Englishman’s stomach, unless for the reason they were admitted into the cookery book; i. e. because he has nothing else to put in it. How- ever “ les Entrees Masquves" may tickle the fancy of foreigners and demi connoisseurs, who often leave the substance, to pursue the shadow, and prefer wonderful and whimsical metamor- phoses, to things intrinsically excellent, in whose mouth mutton seldom meets Avith a Avelcome, unless accompanied by venison sauce — Pork dressed as Veal, and Veal as Pork, and Game and Poultry in the shape of Craufish or Hedgehogs. These Travesties rather shoAV the patience than the science of the Cook, and the bad taste of those Avho prefer such Baby- tricks to old English nourishing and substantial plain Cookery. 1 could have made this the biggest book* with half the trouble it has taken me to make it tlie best. I have taken as much pains in describing, in tlie fullest manner, hoAV to make in the easiest, most agreeable, and most economical Avay, those common sauces that daily contribute to the * 1 iiiti’iKi licie to offer to all siicli as please to peruse it, “ a plain book, which is ail and every part of it Book, and nothing hut solid book from beginning to end.”—Vide preface to Dr, Fclleu’s “ Tntroduclio ad Prudentiam." London, i2mo. 1721.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 113 comfort of the middle ranks of society; as I liave, in directing the preparation of tliose ex- travagant and elaborate double relishes, the most ingenious and accomplished “ QUicers of the Mouth” have invented for the amusement of pro- found Palaticians, and thorough bred Grands Goimnands of the first magnitude; these I have so reduced the trouble and expense of making, as to bring tliem within the reach of modei’ate for- tunes; still preserving all that is valuable of their taste and qualities; so ordering them, that they may delight the palate, without disordering the stomach ; by leaving out those infiammatory ingredients which arc only fit for an “ iron throat, and adamantine bowels,” and those costly materials, which no rational being would destroy, for the wanton purpose of merely giving a fine name to the compositions they enter into, to whose excellence they contribute nothing else; for instance, consuming two par- tridges to make sauce for one, when half a pint of my game gravy, (No. 329,) will be infinitely more acceptable to the unsophisticated appe- tite of Englishmen, for whose proper and ra- tional recreation 1 sat down to compose these receipts; if I gain their patronage, which I have done my utmost to deserve, by devoting much time to the business ot the kitchen; and h 3114 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. by repeated and expensive experiments have investigated the various processes of making each sauce that I thought admitted of the smallest improvement; I shall be fully gratified; aye, if it even happens that my book is not bought up with quite so much avidity by those high bred epicures, wlio are unhappily so much more nice than wise, that they cannot eat any thing dressed by an English Cook, and consider it barbarously unrefined, and intolerably un- gen teel, to endure the sight of the best bill of fare that can be contrived, if written in the vulgar tongue of Old England Let your sauces each display a decided character; send up your plain sauces (see Oyster, Lobster, &c.) as pure as possible; they should only taste of the material from which they take their name. The imagination, of most Cooks, is so in- * Tlioiigli some of these people seem at last to have fomul out, tliat an Englishman's head may be as full of gravy as a Erenchman’s, and willing to give the pre- ference to native talent, retain an Englishman or wo- man as ])rime minister of their kitchen; still they seem ashamed to confess it, as they commonly insist, as a “ sine (|iia non,” that these English domestics should nndersland the “ jiavlez vansand notwithstanding thej’ are peilcelly initiated in all the minntia! of culinary concerns, consider them ineligible, if they cannot scrib- ble a bill of fare in French.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 115 cessaiitly on the hunt for a relish, that they seem to think, they can not make sauce suf- ficiently savoury, without putting into it, every thing, that ever was eaten; and too fond of supposing every addition must be an improve- ment, frequently destroy the natural flavour of their plain sauces, by overloading them with salt and spices, &c. : but, remember, these will he deteriorated by any addition, save only just salt enough to awakeii the palate. On the contrary, of compound sauces the ingre- dients should be so nicely proportioned, that no one be predominant; so that, from the equal union of the combined flavours, such a fine mellow mixture is produced, wliose very no- velty cannot fail of being acceptable to the per- severing gourmand, if it has not pretensions to a permanent place at his table. An inge- * Spices and Her’us are generally very absurdly and injudiciously jumbled together. Why have clove and allspice, or mace and nutmeg in the same sauce, or maijornm, thyme and savory; or onions, leeks, eshallofs and garlick : one will very well supply the place of the other, and the frugal cook may save something considerable by attending to this, to the advantage of her employers, and her own time and trouble. In many of our receipts, we have fallen in with the fashion of ordering a mixture of spices, &c. which the above hint will enable the culinary student to correct.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 116 nious Cook will form as endless a variety of these compositions as a musician with his seven* notes, or a painter with his colours; no part of her business offers so fair and frequent an opportunity to display her abilities. To be a profound Palatician, and complete mistress of the art of cleverly extracting and combining flavours f, besides having the gift of a good taste I, requires all the experience, all the genius, and all the dexterity and skill of the most accomplished and exquisite professor, and especially, an intimate acquaintance with, and an attentive consideration of the palates of those for wliom she is working. Take especial care to have your sauces sent * The seven principal articles in Sauces anil Soups, are. Mushrooms, see (No. 439), Onions (No. 490), Sweet Herbs, Anchovy (No. 433), Lemon Juice and Peel, Wine and Spice. t If your palate becomes dull by repeatedly tastins, the best way to refresh it, is to wasli yonr nioutii well with milk. t There are as many degrees of sensibility ot palate, as there are of gradation, of perfection in the Eyes and Ears of Painters and Musicians; and alter all the pains the I'.ditor has taken in this elaborate work, without nature has given the organ of taste in a due degree, his book will alas! no more make an Apicius, than it can a Reynolds or an Arne.117 (iRAVlKS AND SAUCES. to table as liot as possible. Nothing need l)e more unsightly, than the snri'aco of a sauce in a frozen state, or garnished with grease on the top; to remove every particle of which, draw a piece of filtering paper over it: the same may be said of all made dishes, of whose para- phernalia the sauce forms a conspicuous part; remember to let your sauces boil up for a mo- ment after you have put in wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their flavours may be well blended with the other ingredients *. N. B. Although 1 have been very exact in giving the particular cpiantity of each ingredient used in the following Sauces, as they are ge- nerally made, still the Cook’s judgment and discrimination must direct her to lessen or in- crease any of the articles, according to the taste of those she works for. When you open a bottle of Catsup, Essence of Anchovy, &c. throw away the old cork, and stop it closely with a new taper cork that will fit it very tight; * Before you ])iit esgs or rreani into a rauce, liavc all your oilier ingrotlicnts well boiled, and your sauce or soup of proper I hick ness, because ucitber ejrgs nor cream will contribute inucli to tliicken it. After you have put tlieiu in, lio not set the stew pan on the stove again, but bold it over the fire, and shake it round one way till the sauce is ready.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 118 always use the best superfine velvet corks. Economy in corks is very unwise, as in order to save a mere trifle, in the price of the cork, you run the risk of losing the valuable article it is intended to preserve. It is a vulgar error, that a bottle must be well stopped, when the cork is forced down even with the mouth of it, this being a sure sign that the cork is too small, it should be re-drawn and a larger one put in. TO MAKE BOTTLE CEMENT. Half a pound black rosin, same quantity of red sealing wax, quarter oz. bees wax, melted in an earthen or iron pot; when it froths up, before all is melted and likely to boil over, stir it with a tallow candle, which will settle the froth till all is melted and fit for use. Red wax lOd. per lb. may be bought at Mr. Dew’s, Blackmore Street, Clare Market. N. B. This cement is of very great use in preserving things that you wish to keep a long time, which without its help would soon spoil, from the clumsy manner the bottles are corked.Rl;DI3IENTS of cookek\ CHAPTER IX. MADE DISHES. Under this general head we range our re- ceipts for Hashes, Stews, Fricasees, and Ra- gouts*; of these there are a great multitude, affording the ingenious (,'ook an inexhaustible store of very rich and pleasing variety ; we have very few general observations to make, after what we have already said in the chapter of Gravies, Sauces, Soups, &c., which apply to the present chapter, as they form the prin- cipal part of the accompaniment of most of these dishes. Be careful only to stew your made dishes, ^c. till they are just tender, and not do them to rags. We have given receipts f * Gravy for ragouts, &c., should bo tliickoned till it is of the consistence of good rich Cream. Wlicu you have a large dinner to dress, always keep ready mixed some fine sifted Hour and water well rubbed to- gether till quite smooth and about as thick as batterMADE DISHES. 120 for the most easy and simple way to make hashes, &c.; for only those who are well skilled in Culinary arts, know how good things may be dressed up in this way, so as to be as agi’eeable and nutritious as they were the first time they were cooked; the main business of this book is to increase the comforts of moderate families and moderate fortunes. I have also given the plainest directions, for preparing the more com- posite and elaborate made dishes, still keeping constantly in mind, not to make either the Stomach or the Purse suffer for the pleasure of the Palate; endeavouring to hold the ba- lance even, between the agreeable and the wholesome, and the Epicure and the Economist, This is by no means so difficidt a task as some gloomy philosophers (uninitiated in Culinary Science,) have tried to make the world believe, by telling us, that every thing that is nice, must be noxious; and evei’y thing that is nasty, must be wholesome. But as honest Will Shakspeare, declares he never found a Philo- sopher who could endure the tooth-ach pa-, tiently: Apicius, protests he has not yet over- taken one who did not love a Feast. 1 promise those who do inc the honour to put my receipts into practice, tliey will find tliat the most nutritious and tndv elesfant dishes.MADB DISHES. 121 are not always the most difficult to dress, the most expensive, or the most indigestible; bo it known to all whom it may concern, that in these compositions, knowledge will go farther than expense; and if some of my receipts appear to dffi’er a little, from the rules and orders set down by preceding or co-temporary Cookery-Book-makers, let it be remembered, I have advanced nothing in this work that has not been tried, and frequent experience, has proved correct. While we are contriving, to give every gra- tification, in the utmost perfection, to the lover of good eating, we have not put any tempta- tions, in the way of the valetudinarian, that he may not occasionally partake of, not only with impunity, but with advantage; the infirm sto- machs* of Invalids, sometimes, require a little indulgence, and like other bad instruments, want oiling, and screwing, and winding up • Tlie advantage of Repose, during tlie first half hour, (at least) of the labour of digestion, can only be understood by those wlio have experienred the coin- Ibrts of the “ Siesta.” Tlie Dysjteptic patient, who once tries it, will soon be convinced, “ Tristram Shan- dy” was right enough, when he said that “ both Pain and Pleasure, are best supported, in an Hori:mntal posture.” M122 MADE DISHES. and adjusting with the utmost care, to keep them in tolerable order; and they will receive the most salutary stimulus, from now and then, making a full meal of a favourite dish. I be- lieve this is not a singular notion of my own, (or a good word for my fellow spit-mates,) though, it may not exactly agree, with the fas- tidious fancy of Dr. Sangradai's disciples, that Starvation and Phlebotomy, are Sovereign Re- medies for all Disorders. As abundance, of eating and drinking, is certainly the most fre- quent cause of the disorders of the Rich, so privation, is the common source of complaints, among the Poor; and the cause, of the one, the cure of the other: and I hold it lawful, to excite the blunted palate, when enfeebled by age, or indisposition, luxurious living, or intem- perance. An healthful impetus may be given to the system by the help of a favourite Soup* * Good Block Turtle, (see No. 24d, or S47*,) will agree with weak stomachs surprisingly well. This ex- cellent soup, is frequently ordered for dy.'peptic i)a- tients, by the senior physician to one of the largest hospitals in this metropolis: as a man of science and talent, certainly in as high estimation as anj' of his me- dical cotemporaries. Ox-tail Soup, (No. 240,) Gihict Soup (No. 244,) and (No. 87,) and (No. 89,) (No. 109.) ami (No. ,')0;i,) arc favourite lestoralives with \picin<,123 MADE DISHES, or Ragout, at less expense to the machinery of life than by the use of those Spirituous Stimuli*, that merely fan a feverish fire by inflaming the “ Erpa to a'ede," tlic reader will renicniher “ Buglivi's” chapter “ de Idolis Medicorum,” wliereiii, lie tells us that “ Physicians always prescribe to others, what they like themselves “ the best answers, to all iiKpiiries, about the wholesnmes, are the I'ollowing (piestions ; *' do yon like it?” “ does it agree with yon?” “ then eat in moderation, and yon cannot do very wrong.” * All tVines, naturally possess a pioportion of Alco- hol (ardent spirit;) but to the foreign wines a ipiantity is added, to prevent their running into the acetous fermentation during the voyage to this country, and this is proportioned to the quality of the wine. In order, therefore, to ascertain the (piantity which the different wines contain on an average, the experiments have been made on wines from different venders. Brandy and rum are sold at different degrees of strength; indeed, some termed te/iife brandy and m/iife rum, are highly rectified. The brandy and rum em- ployed in the following experiments were obtained from a respectable wine merchant, who was desired to send samples of the articles as generally sold to the public. A bottle of Port wine, containing twenty-six ounces, which had been in bottle seven years, produced two ounces and seven drachms of alcohol (ardent spirit). A bottle of Port wine, containing twenty-live ounces and a halt, (one year in bottle, and two years in wood,) two ounces and six drachms. M 2MADE DISHES. 124 circulation for a few minutes, without, at the same time, contributing any fuel, to feed the lamp of life, which, if its construction be or- ganically defective, or is impaired, by the wear and tear, of time or disease, will sometimes. A bottle of pale slierry, three years old, containing twenty-five ounces, produced three ounces. A bottle of Madeira, two years old, containing twen- ty-five ounces and a half, two ounces and five drachms. A bottle of Cape Madeira, one year old, containing twenty-five ounces, two ounces and a half. A bottle of old hock, containing twenty-one ounces, nearly an ounce. A bottle of brandy, containing twenty-four ounces, ten ounces. A bottle of rum, containing twentj’-four and a half ounces, nine ounces and a half. A quart of public-house ale (not bottled,) from the brewery of Rlr. Wyatt, one ounce. From a quart of common draught porter, from the brewery of Messrs. Elliot and Co., five and a half d raclims. From the foregoing results, it appears that four bot- tles either of port, sherry, or IMadcira, contain more ardent spirit than a bottle of brandy. Three bottles of sherry are nearly equal to one bottle of rum. That ten bottles of hock, or ten quarts of ale, or about fourteen and a half quarts of pwter, are equal to a bottle of brandy. — From Dr. Keece’s Gazette of Health.MADE DISHES. 125 not burn brightly, unless it is supplied with the best oil, and trimmed, in the most skill'ul manner. Most of those who have written on what are most non-naturally, termed the non- naturals, have merely, laid before the public, a register, of the peculiarities of their own Palate, and the idiosyncrasies of their own Constitution. Some omnivorous Cormorants have such a craving appetite, they are raving with hunger, as soon as they open their Eyes, and bolt down half a dozen Eggs, almost be- fore they are awake; others, are so j)crfectly restored by that “ chief nourishcr in life’s feast” sound sleep; that they do not think about eating, till they have been up, and actively employed for several hours ; if the latter at- tempts to follow the example of the former, instead, of feeling invigorated, his Stomach will be as oppressed, as a Porter is with a load he is not strong enough to carry, and under the idea of swallowing, what he hears called, strengthening nourishing things, will very soon make himself ready lor the undertaker. Some, are continually inviting an indigestion, by eating Water-cresses and other undressed Vegetables “ to sweeten their blood,” or Oysters “ to enrich it,” others, fancy their dinner will not digest, without they close the orifice of their Stomach, M 13MADE DISHES. 126 with a certain portion of Cheese; a third never eats Goose, without remembering that Brandy or Kyan is the Latin for it. Others make it a rule to eat nothing between breakfast and din- ner, an interval, which (should not exceed five or six,) but fashion has protracted, to eight or nine hours, a much longer fast, (“ a windy re- creation,” as friar John calls it,) than the most perfect elasticity of robust Health can endure, without straining the adjustment of the System, and creating such an over-excited, and ravenous appetite, that the Stomach, does not feel, it has had enough, till it finds, it has had too much. None, but the most obstinately ignorant visionary, would dream, of laying down rules for governing the caprice and whims of the infirm Sto- machs of Crazy Invalids. Here, all the codes of Dietetics fail, and the suggestions of Reason, are commbnly, in direct opposition, to the de- sires of Appetite. In all matters of importance, regarding the adjustment, of this most supreme Organ of existence, honest instinct, comes a volunteer, and nine times out of ten, makes out a fair title, to be called “ unerring*'.” * “As to the quality' of food, tliough wliatevcr is easy of digestion, singly considered, deserves the pre- ference ; yet, regard must be had to tlie palate andMADE DISHES. 127 “ Instinct, tlian Reason, makes more wholesome meals.” See Dr. Young’s Night Thoughts, Niglit 6th, the Complaint, line 738. A little respect to the suggestions of Instinct, every Invalid, appetite, because it is frequently found, that wliat tlie stomach earnestly covets, though of difficult digestion, does nevertheless digest better, than what is esteemed of easier tligestion if the stomach nauseates it: 1 am of opinion the patient ought to eat only of one <lish at a meal.”—Vide Sydenham’s Treatise on Gout. “ Be content with one dish at a meal, and in the choice of that consult your jialatc.”—Vide M andevii.le on Ilypochomh'iasis, page 316. For want of snhmission to this salutary rule of Temperance, as many men dig their graves with their Teeth, as with the Tankard. “ My ap|>etite is in several things of itself happily enough accommodated to the health of my stomach : whatever I take against my liking docs me harm; but nothing hurts me that I eat with appetite and delight.”— Vide honest Montaigne’s Essay on Experience, book iii. chap. 13. “ The taste, considered superficially, would seem to be a sensation peculiar to the mouth, and distinct from that of hunger or thirst. But if we trace its origin, we shall he convinced that this organ, which in the mouth makes us sensible of the fitness and delicacy of meats and drinks, is the self same principle, that in the mouth, gullet, and stomach, is craving for food, and incites ns to a longing after it. These three parts, properly speaking, are hut one continued organ, and have but one and the same object. If the mouth ere-1 128 MADE DISHES. will find of infinite advantage; those, who are poor in health, must live as they can; certainly, the less stimuli, any of us use, the ales in ns an aversion to any i)articnlar food, does not the gullet recoil at the approach of it? and does not the stomach immediately discharge its disagreeable contents? Hunger, thirst, and taste, arc therefore three etfects of the same organ. Hunger and thirst are the motions of tiie organ desirous of its object. The taste is the motion of the organ, in the enjoyment of this object. This unity of the organ, in regard of hun- ger, thirst, and taste, is the cause of these three effects being almost always in the same proportion in the same persons. The more violent the appetite for food is, the greater is the enjoyment in eating; and the more the taste is gratified, the more easily the organs defray the expense of this gratification, by digestion. This rule is general, in regard of all the sensations and all the passions. Genuine desire constitutes the propor- tion of the pleasure, and of the power without this mutual consent, founded on the sympathy of these organs, our sensations would destroy that being, for whose benefit they are established. It is very natural that the month, which first receives the aliment, and of course becomes the taster, as it were, in respect of the gullet and stomach, should be endued with a dis- cerning property beyond them ; as it is the part of a good clerk of the kitchen to distinguish himself by an elegant choice of provisions, to prevent his incurring the displeasure of his employers.”—Vide the ingenious Le Cat’s I-'smy on lltc Senses. ]MADE DISHES. 129 better; and those combinations, whicli excite the circulation, at the least expense of nervous and muscular irritation, and afford the greatest portion of nourishment, must be most friendly to the stomach, when it demands restorative diet. If strong spices and savoury herbs awaken the appetite, they in an increased ratio accele- rate the action of the bowels, prematurely hurrying the food through the alimentarv canal, too rapidly to allow the absorbents to do their Avork properly. We advise those whose sto- machs stand in need of such artificial stimu- lants, if they value either intensive or extensive life, rather to abstain from dishes requiring a vigorous stomach, than to resort to such per- nicious means of forcing the action, of a feeble one ; moreover, by the too frequent or immo- derate use of piquaute sauces, &c., the papillary nerves of the palate become so lilunted, that in a little time they lose all sensibility and relish for plain nourishing food, and the sen- sualist is punished with all the suft'erings of incessant and incurable indigestion, perturbed sleep, and the horrors of the night mare, &c. &c.: however, enough has been written a thousand times over, liy a thousand cautionists, to convince any rational creature, of the advau-130 MADE niSIIES. tages resulting to both body and mind from a simple and frugal fare; the great secret of health and longevity, is to keep up the sen- sibility of the stomach. It is highly gratifying to me, to find my sen- timents so frequently in unison with those of the ingenious editor of the “ Almanadi des Gourmands” indisputably, the best written book on the savoir rivre, and which I did not meet with till my own work was nearly ready to go to press. In the 5th volume, page 195, speak- ing of the immoderate use of spices, &c. he says; “The stomach, the bowels, the liver, and the other viscera, soon become affected with many unmanageable maladies, against which all the skill of Esculapius will avail no- thing. Seek appetite, then, from Air, Exercise*, and abstinence, rather than from the excessive use of exotic stimulants, especially the inflam- matory spices, which are burning as the sun which produces them; and however medicinal or alimentary they may be to the inhabitants of the tro|)ics, wlien employed by us with the same excess, are absolute poisons. • Dine half an lioiir later than usual, anil give time for Ihe digestive juices to assemble in full forre.TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND I\1EASHHES. To reduce our culinary operations, to as exact a certainty, as the nature oi’the processes would admit ol’; we have, wherever i(, was needful, given the quantities of each article. The WeigIll's, are avoirdupois. The Mi'.a- suRE, — the liquid graduated glass of the apothecaries; this appeared the most accurate and convenient; the pint being divided into six- teen ounces, the ounce into eight drachms. A middling size teaspoon will contain about a draclim ; four such teaspoons are ecpial to a middling size tablespoon, or half an ounce ; four tablespoons to a common sized wineglass. The specific gravities, of the various substances, being so extremely diH'crcnt, we cannot offer any auxiliary standards’' for the weights, which we earnestly recommend the cook to employ, if she wishes to gain credit for accuracy (and refer her to our remarks on Palalic.s, and the education of a Cook’s ’ronguc in the 1. page of the preface) .iml uniformity in her business ; these she will lind it necessary to have as small as the ipiarter ol ' \ lavf,'e lal)k'.si)ooufiil of Hour wtiglis about half an JUllCl'.132 TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. a drachm avoirdupois, which is equal to nearly seven grains troy weight. Glass measures, (divided into tea and table spoons,) containing from half an ounce to half a pint, may be had at Hancock’s Glass Ware- house, Charing Cross; and at Price’s, near Exeter Change, Strand ; where also may be had, double-headed pepper and spice boxes, with caps over the gratings. The superiority of these, by preserving the contents from the action of the air, must be sufficiently obvious to every one ; the fine aromatie flavour of pepper is soon lost, from the bottles it is usually kept in not being well stopped. Peppers are seldom ground or pounded sufficiently fine. N. B. The Trough Nutmeg Graters, made by Brooks, Ironmonger in Piccadilly, (near Bond Street,) are by far the best we have seen, especially for those %vho want to grate a great deal in a little time.CONTENTS. N.B. The Housekeeper and Cook are requested to read the Preface to this It'ork, and the Hcuiments of Cookery. NO. BOILING. NO. ROASTING. Loss of weight l)y boil- ing, and otiicr inodes of cookery. Leg of Mutton i Neck of Mutton '2 To Boil Lamr 3 To Boil Veal 4 Beef Boiiillie ,5 To salt Beef and Pork- (5 Boil a Round of salted Beef 7 H-Bone of Beef 8 Ribs of Beef salted and rolled 9 To Boil a Calf’s Head • 10 I’ickled Pork II Pigs’Pettitoes 12 Bacon 13 Ham 14 Tongue 15 Fowls 16 Rabbits 17 Tripe 18 Sirloin of Beef 19 Ribs of Beef 20 Ribs of Beef boned and rolled 21 Rump of Beef 22 Observations on Roast- ing Mutton 2S Dean Swift’s Receipt. A Leg 24 A Chine 25 A Saddle 26 ■A Shoulder 27 A Loin 28 A Neck 29 A Brea.st 3o A Haunch 31 Mutton, Venison fashion 32 Observations on Roast- ing Veai 33 Fillet of Veal 34 A Loin 35 A Shoulder 56 Neck, best end 37 VCONTENTS. 134 NO. 1 Breast 38 Veal Sweetbread 39 Observations on Roast- ing Lame 40 Hind Quarter 41 Fore Quarter 42 Leg 43 Shoulder 44 Ribs 45 Loin 46 Neck 47 Breast 43 Observations on Roast- ing Pork 49 A Leg 50 Leg of Pork roasted without the Skin, or Mock Goose 51 The Griskin 52 Bacon, Sparerib 53 Loin 54 A Chine 55 Roast Pig 56 Turkey 57 Capons or Fowls 58 Goose 59 Green Goose 60 Duck 61 Observations on dress- ing Game 62 Recipe for Sauce to Wild Fowls Haunch of Venison.... 03 Neck and Shoulder of Venison g.i Fawn 65 Hare 66 Mock Hare *07 Rabbit 07 Pheasant 68 Mock Pheasant 09 NO. Guinea Fowl *69 Partridges 70 Black Cock 71 Moor Game 72 Grouse 73 Wild Ducks 74 Widgeons and Teal-•• • 75 Woodcock 76 Snipes 77 Roast Pigeons 78 Pigeons on a poor man’s spit 79 Larks, and other small birds 80 Wheat Ears 81 Lobster ’ 82 FRYING. To clarify Drippings • • 83 To melt Suet 84 Rump Steaks 85 Beef Steaks and Onions 86 Sausages 87 Sweetbreads full dress- ed 88 Sweetbreads plain 89 Veal Cutlets 90 Veal Cutlets full dress- ed 91 Lamb, or INIutton Chops 92 Pork Chops 93 BROILING. Beefsteaks 94 Kidneys 9.> The Inside of a Sirloin of Beef 90 Fowl or Chicken 97 Pigeons 98CONTENTS. I 35 \ EGETABLES. NO. l^otatoes 102 Potatoes boiled ami broiled 103 Potatoes fi led in slices 104 Potatoes fried whole . 105 Potatoes mashed - - - - 106 Potatoes mashed with Onions 107 Escalloped Potatoes - - 108 Koast I’otatoes 1 oy Koast Potatoes under 5Ieat 1 10 Potatoe Balls lit Savourv Totatoe Balls 1 fi Casserole of Potatoes 113 PotatoeSnovv 114 i he fJipsies’ Totatoe 115 New Potatoes 116 Jerusalem Artichokes 1 17 Cabhage 1 1 3 Boiled Cabbage tried 119 Savoys 120 Sprouts 121 Spinach 122 Asparagus 123 Sea Kail 124 Canlillower 1 Jo Ifroeoli 126 Red Beet Roots .... 127 Paisnips Carrots 129 Turnips 1.30 Maslicd Turnips .. -. 131 1 nrnip - tops 132 Trench Beans Pj.J (irccTi Peas 134 Cnenniber stewed 13o Artichokes 1J6 .Stew Onions 137 Roast Onions 138 risH. To Koil Tiirl)ot Diitcli iiictliod of l?oil iiig Tiirljot To Try 'I’lirlrot 'I'o ilros.s lirill To Hoil Solc.s 'To Try Solos To Stow Soles Tillels of Soles fi led - • Tillets of .Soles, White Cod IJoiled Salt I'isli Boiled • •• Slices of Cod Boiled - • Codlings liroiled - - - . \Vliitin;j;s Tried Skate Tried I’laiee or Tloimders Tried fVater Soiieliy I laddocks Boiled - - .. (kirp Stewed I’eri h Tried Tereli Boiled Salmon Tickled Salmon Boiled Salmon Broiled Tels Stewed, Wiggy’s way Eels Tried Eels Spitchcocked - -. iMaekarcl Boiled iMackarel Soused - - -. Mackarel Broiled - - - • iMaekarcl Baked - - -. Mackarel Tickled- - - - ■Sprats Broiled » Herrings Itroiled -... * Herrings Soused Smelts Tried NO. 110 1 II 140 14.) 1 14 l-l.) 116 147 148 1-1!) l.iO l.')l l.jo l.V) 154 155 156 157 1.58 15ti 160 161 162 165 164 165 ](i6 167 168 169 170 171 170 171136 CONTENTS. NO. Shrimps Pickled, the American way 174 Shrimps Potted 175 Lobster Boiled 176 Crab 177 Lobster Potted i78 Lobster Cake 179 Lobster Pudding • • • • 180 Oysters 181 Oysters Scalloped... • 182 Oysters Stewed *182 Mr. AVim. Tucker’s Ob- servations on Fish. BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. N. B. Before you attempt to make any of the following Soups, pray read the 7 th Chapter of the Rudiments OF Cookery. Beef Broth 185 Beef Gravy 186 Beef Broth for Glaze- 252 Strong Beef Gravy ... 188 Beef Cullis 189 Family Soup 190 Veal Broth 191 Veal Gravy 192 Knuckle of Veal Soup 193 Mutton Broth 194 Mock Mutton Broth. • 195 Queen’s morning Broth 196 Hodge Podge 197 Ox-heel Jelly 193 Jelly Broth of frag- ments 199 Clear Gravy Broth. - - 900 Shin of Beef Soup • - - - 201 Harrico Mutton Soup 202 NO. Mutton Broth with Cutlets 203 Scotch Barley Broth - 204 Scotch Leek Soup • • - 205 Rice Soup 206 Turnip Soup, White - • 208 Turnip Soup, Brown • • 209 Game Soup 210 Carrot Soup - • 212 Parsnip Soup 213 Celery Soup 214 Green Pease Soup 21C Green PeaseSoup with- out Meat 217 Pease Soup 218 Pease Soup without Meat 219 PeaseSoup with Pick- led Pork 220 Plain Pease Soup • - - • 221 Asparagus Soup 222 Water Soup 223 Maigre Gravy Soup • • 224 Fish Soup 225 Onion Soup Maigre - - 226 Brown Soup Maigre- - 227 Soon made Savoury Soup 229 Dripping Soup 230 Vermicelli Soup 231 Vermicelli Soup, White 232 Maccaroni Soup 233 Maccaroni Soup, the new way 234 Cray Fish Soup 235 Prawn, or Shrimp Soup 236 Lobster Soup 237 Soup and Bouilli - - - - 238 Ox Cheek Soup 239 Ox Tail Soup 240 I Ox Heel Soup * e-ioCONTENTS. 1.37 NO. Hare Soup !241 Partiidi;e Soup 24-i Soup without Water- • 0.13 Giblet Soup 244 Mock Mock 'rurtlc • ■ 245 INlock 'I’urtle 24ti Mock 'I'urtle 247 Eu^lisli Turtle Soup - ■ 248 Malaga Tawuy Soup- • 249 'I'urtle Soup 2.50 'rurtlc i'ius. Mock 'I'urtle Souj) • • • 251 Portable Soup 252 'fo (Marify Broth, &c.*252 SAUCES AM) GRA- VIES. N.B. li(fore you make any of the follmriug Sauces, y tease to read the [it A Chayter of the K u duients OE CooKEitv. Observations on Melt- ed Butter 254 Zest 255 jAlelleil Rutter 25ti 'rhickcniufi; 257 Savoury Thickcuiuf;. • 258 Clarified Butter 259 Burnt lUittci' 260 Oiled Butter *260 Parsley and ISutter 261 Mock Parsley Sauce • 262 Gooseberry Sauce- • • • 263 (ihcrvil and Butter- • • 264 Fennel and Butter, for Maekarel, Ac. • • • • 265 Mackarcl Roc Sauce • 266 Ettg Sauce 267 Pudding Sauce 268 N \o Plumb Pudding Sauce 269 Anchovy Sauce 270 Anchovy Sauce for Roast Meat 271 Garlick Sauce 272 Cucumber Sauce 135 Caper Sauce 274 Mock Caper Sauce- • • 275 Dutch Sour Sauce t'or Fish 27i; Cream Sauce, for Fish 277 Oyster Sauce 278 Pickled Oyster Sauce 279 Bottled Oyster Sauce 280 Cockle Sauce 281 Muscle Sauce 282 Shrimp Sauce 283 Lobster Satice 204 Sauce tor Lobster, Ac. 285 Crab Sauce 28(i Liverand ParsleySauce 287 Lemon and Liver.Sauce 288 Celery Sauce, White- - 289 Celery Sauce, Brown- 290 Sorrel Sauce 291 'Foinata, or Love .-\p- ple Sauce 292 iMock 'I'omata Sauce • 293 Shallot Sauce 29i- Shallot Sauce, for Boil- ed iM lit ton 295 Young Onion Sauce • • 296 Onion Sauce 297 Onion Sauce 298 Fried Onion Sauce -- 299 Sage and Onion Sauce 300 Portugal Onion Sauce 301 Carrier Sauce .302 iMint Sauce 303 Apple Sauce 301- 3CONTENTS 138 Mushroom Sauce • • • • Mushroom Sauce, Brown Italian Sauce with Mushrooms Italian Raniolade • • • • Italian Raniolade, hot Poor Man’s Sauce- • • ■ Garlick Gravy Mr. M. Kelly’s Sauce for Boiled Calf’s Head, or Cow-heel. Mr. Kelly’s Sauce Pi- quante. Tarragon Sauce Herb Sauce Piquante Truffle Sauce Fried Parsley Crisp Parsley Fried Bread Sippets- - Fried Bread Crumbs- Bread Sauce Rice Sauce * Plain Browning Greening Red Yellow Gravy, for Roast Meat Gravy,for Boiled Meat Wow Wow Sauce, for Bouilli Beef To make Gravy. Beef Gravy Sauce- • - - Ragout Sauce, or strong Beef Gravy with Mushrooms - - Onion Gravy Maigre Gravy Fish Gravy Gravy Sauce for Poul- try without Meat - - NO. Mock Gravy Sauce - • 335 Soup-Herb, and soon made Savoury Sauce 336 Gravy Sauce for Game 337 Orange Gravy Sauce, for Wild Ducks--■ - 338 Woodcock Sauce - -•- 339 Snipe Sauce 340 Bonne Bouclie, for Goose or 14iick- - - - 341 Savoury Sauce, for Roast Pork or Geese, &c. 342 Turtle Sauce 343 Essence of Turtle -- *343 W'ine Sauce, for Veni- son 344 Vinegar Sauce, forVe- nison 345 Sweet Sauce, for Veni- son 346 Mutton Gravy, for Ve- nison 347 Curry Sauce 348 Soup-Herb and Sa- voury Powder, or Double Relish Sauce 349 Ham Sauce, for Poul- try 350 Essence of Ham 351 Ham Sauce 252 Minced HamSauce.for Eggs or Pease 353 Sauce for Veal Cutlets 354 Grill Sauce 3,55 Sauce for Rump Steaks or Mutton Chops - - 356 Savoury Jelly for Cold Meat, &c. 357 Russian Sauce for Cold Meat 358 NO. 305 306 ,307 308 309 310 311 314 315 316 317 318 319 320 321 321 322 323 324 325 326 327 328 329 330 331 332 333 334CONTENTS. 139 NO. Sauce for Cold Meat, Poultry, &c. Sauce for Hashes of Mutton or lieef- • • • 360 Sauce for Hashed or Minced Veal 3<3t White Gravy Sauce • • 352 To make Marinade •• 363 Bechamel Sauce 36‘t Poivrade Sauce 365 Poivrade Sauce, cold 366 Sauce Tourut'e 367 Sauce Vcloute 368 Mustard in a minute • 369 Mustaril, to make- • • • 370 Salt 371 Salad Sauce 372 Forcemeat Stuffings • • 373 Veal Stuffing 374 ^TaI Forcemeat 375 Stuffing for Roast Tur- key, or Capon, or Fowl 376 Stuffing for Boiled Tur- key 377 Goose or Duck Stuff- ing 370 Stuffing for Hare - • • • 379 Foreemcat Balls for Turtle, IMock Tur- tle, or Made Dishes 380 Egg Balls sat Curry Balls 382 Soup - Herb Powder Balls 383 Savoury Powder Balls 304 Soup-IIcrbaud Savoniy Powder Balls 385 Zest Balls 286 Orange or I_enion-Pcel to mix with Stuffing 387 NO. Mock Cream 388 Raspberry Vinegar - • 389 Ras])berry Vinegar, another way 390 Syrup of Lemons - • - - 391 Orange Syrup, for Puddings 392 Syrup of Orange or Lemon Peel 393 Synip of Nutmegs- -. - 394 Syrup of Vinegar ■ - - - 395 Tarragon Vinegar- - - - 396 Basil Vinegar 397 Mint Vinegar 398 Essenee of Vinegar -- 399 Garlick Vinegar 400 Eshallot Wine 402 Camp Vinegar 403 Brochard Sauce, for Cold Meat Chilli Vinegar * ' 405 Chilli Wine **405 Essence of Cayenne • • 405 Prepared Lemon Juice 406 Essence of Lemon- Peel 407 Quint-Kssence of Le- mon Peel 408 Spirit of Celery 409 Preserved Juice of Fruits without Su- 410 Essence of Ginger 4i i Essence of Allspice • • 412 Tincture of Allspice • 413 Essence of Clove and Mace 414. Tincture of Clove. • • • 415 Essence of Cinnamon- -116 Essence ol' Marjoram 417CONTENTS. 140 NO. Alum Finings, for cla- rifying Spiritous and OleoseCordials,Com- pounds, &c. 418 Spirit of Sweet Herbs, for Broths, &c. • •. • 419 Soup-Herb Spirit • •. • 420 Spirit of Savoury Spice 421 Soup-Herb and Sav- oury Spice Spirit-. 422 Relish for Chops, &c. 423 Quin’s Sauce 424 Fish Sauce 425 Fish Sauce 426 Keeping Mustard ■ • - • 427 Sour Crout 428 Sauce Superlative-.. - 429 Mock Anchovies 430 Essence of Mock An- chovies 431 Mock Essence of An- chovies 432 Essence of Anchovy - • 433 Anchovy Paste 434 Anchovy Powder ■ • •• 435 Soy 436 Essence of Walnuts • • 437 Walnut Catsup 438 Mushroom Catsup. • 439 Quintessence of Mush- rooms -140 Quintessence of Oys- ters 441 Cockle and Muscle Catsup 442 Tomata Catsup 443 White Catsup 444 Cucumber Catsup 445 Pudding Catsup 4.4(5 Potatoc IMucilage. -. • .443 NO. Mrs. Ratfald’s Brown- ing 449 Mrs. Raffald’s Lemon Pickle 450 Hash Sauce 451 Piqiiante Vinegar, or Sauce for Salads or Cold IMeat 452 Salad Mixture 453 Curry Powder 454 Cheap Curry Powder- 455 Italian Tamara 456 Savoury Ragout Pow- der 457 Pea Powder 458 Soup-Herb Powder, or Vegetable Relish •• 459 Soup-Herb and Sav- vonry Powder, or Qiiintesscucc of Ra- gout 460 To preserve Sweet and Savoury Herbs • - - • 461 Pickles 462 The Magazine of Taste -163 Toast and IVater- •. - * 463 Cool Tankard, or Beer Cup 464 Cider Cup 465 Flip 466 Tewahdiddle 167 To bottle Beer 468 Rich Kaspberrv Wine or Brandy 469 Punch 470 Fine Red Katifia 471 Cherry Brandy 472 Raspberry Brandy • • 473 Curacoa 474 Clarified Syrup 475CONTENTS 141 NO. Capillairc 476 Li'iiionade in a minute 477 Pnncli directly 478 Powder for Pnncli or Lemonade *47 8 Slirnb 479 Mock Arrack 480 Spiritnus Syrup of Tea 481 Sodaic Powders • • • • *481 MADE DISHES. N. B. See 9th Chapin' of the RuDiiviENTS OF Cook- ery. Hash Mutton 484 To w arm np Hashes- • 436 Hash Beef, the Gip- 486 sics’ way Cold Meat Broiled, with Poached Eg"s 487 Irish Stew 488 Harrico Mutton, or Lanih 489 Ditto,thcGipsies’ way *489 .Stewed Mutton Chops 490 Shoulder of Lamh Grilled 491 Lamb’s Fry 492 Shin of Beef stewed - • 493 Brisket of Beef Stew- ed 494 Harricol of Beef - ••• 49.6 Hunter’s Beef 496 Ragout of Beef 197 Rib of Beef Stewed • - 498 Cold Beef garnished with Jelly 499 .Stewed Rump Steak • - 600 Rump Steak, with t.lnion Gravy .601 Alamode Beef, or Eng- no. lish Turtle .609 To Pot Beef 503 Beefcakes 504 Bubble and Si|iieak, or Fried Beef and Cabbage 505 H.ish Beef and Roast Beef Boms Broiled 506 Ox Cheek Stewed -• 507 Oy Tails Slewed ... 508 Potted Ham 509 Marbled Vial 510 Minced Veal 5il To make an excellent hot dish of cold Veal 519 Veal Sweetbread Fri- cas6e, while 513 Veal Svveethread Fri- casf'e, brown 514 Breast of \ eal Stewed 515 Stewed Veal and Ba- con 516 Breast of Veal Ragout 517 Veal Olives .'... 518 Cold t’alf's-head hash- ed 519 Calfs-head Hashed, or Ragout 520 Veal Cutlets Broiled- 521 Knuckle of Veal, to Ragout 500 Knuckle of Veal Stew- ed with Rice 523 Mr. Gay’s Receipt to Slew a Knuckle of Veal 524 Slices of Ham or Ba- con 526 Relishing Rashers of Bacon 527 Hashed Venison 528142 CONTENTS. NO. Hasliecl Hare 529 Jugged Hare *529 Hashed Ducks or Geese 530 Stewed Giblets 531 Hashed Woodcock •• • 532 Hashed Turkey, Fowl, or Chicken 533 Pulled Turkey, Fowl, or Chicken 534 To dress Cold Fowl, Durk, Pigeon, or Kabbit 535 Fricasee of Chickens, w^itli Mushroom. • • • 536 Fricasee of Chicken in a minute 537 Devil 538 MISCELLANEOUS. Toast and Cheese. •• • 539 Toasted Cheese, No. 2. 540 Buttered Toast and Cheese 541 Potted Cheese 542 Ramaejuin 543 Marrow Bones 544 Eggs fried with Bacon 545 To Poach Eggs 546 To Boil Eggs in the Shell 547 Eggs Poached with Sauce of Minced Ham 548 F'ried Eggs and Min- ced Bacon 549 NO. Egg Tea 550 Suet Pudding, Wiggy’s way 551 A^orkshire Pudding un- der Roast Meat, the Gipsies’ way 552 Apicius's Plumb Pud- ding 554 Pease Pudding 555 Cumberland Pudding . 556 Maccaroni Pudding .. 557 Rice Pudding 558 Ground Rice Pudding 559 Custard Pudding .... 560 Orange Pudding .... 561 White Wine Whey .. • 562 Beef Tea 563 A fine strengthening Mutton Broth .... 564 Barley Water 565 Toothach .and Anti- rheumatic Embro- cation 567 Peristaltic Persuad- ers 568 Stomachic Tincture 569 Paregoric Elixir .. 570 Dr. Cullen’s Receipt to make Water Gruel 571 Water Gruel immedi- ately 572 Anchovy Toast 573 Devilled Biscuit 574 To warm Water with- out Fire 575THE COOK’S ORACLE. BOILING. l^cg oj' Mutton.—(No. 1.) Cut off tlie shank bone and trim the knuckle of a leg of mutton, and put it into lukewarm water for an hour; wash it clean, put it on in plenty of cold water; let it boil gently; and skim it carefully. A leg of nine pounds will take three hours very gentle boiling. Neck of Mutton.—(No. 2.) Put four or five i)ounds of the best end of the neck, into a gallon and a half of water, and let it simmer slowly for two hours; it will eat most deliciously tender: it will look most de- licate if you do not take off the skin till it has been boiled. Send up for sauce, that elegant and innocent relish, parsley and butter, (No. 'ifil)BOILIXG. 144 or Eshallot or caper sauce (No. 274), and turnips (No. 130), or spinage (No. 121), are expected to accompany boiled mutton. To Boil Lamb.—(No. 3.) A leg of lamb of five pounds should simmer very gently for about two hours. After the general rules for Boiling, we have nothing to add, only to send up with it, spinage, brocoli, cauli- flower, &c., and for sauce (No. 261.) To Boil Beal. — (No. 4.) As this is always expected to come to table looking very delicately clean, &c., you must be careful to have clean water and a clean vessel, and constantly catch the scum, and attend to the directions before given in the preliminary observations. Send up bacon (No. 13) and greens, and parsley and butter (No. 261) with it. Beef Bouillie.—(No, 5.) In plain English, is understood to mean Boiled Beef; but its culinary' acceptation, in the French kitchen, is fresh beef dressed without boiling, but kept gently simmering over a slow fire. English Cooks, seem to have no notion, that good Soup, can he made xcithout de- stroying a great deal of Meat: however, by a145 BOILING. judicious regulation of the fire, and a vigilant attendance on the Soup kettle, this may be accomplished without much difficulty, and yon shall have a tureen of such soup as the finest palate will be pleased with, and yet the meat make its appearance at table possessing its full portion of nutritious succulence. This recpiires nothing more, than to boil or rather stau the meat slowly, instead of fast, and to take it up •when it is done enough. Meat cooked in this manner, affords more than double the nourish- ment it does dressed in the common way, is easy of digestion in proportion as it is tender, and an invigorating diet, especially valuable to the poor, whose laborious emjiloyments require support. If they could get good eating put within their reach, they would often go to the butcher’s shop, when they now run to the pub- lic house. Our neighbours the French are so justly famous for their skill in the affairs of the kitchen, that, the adage says, “ as many Frenchmen as many Cooks;” surrounded as they are by a profusion of the most delicious Wines and most seducing Liqueurs, offering every temptation and facility to render drunken- ness delightful, yet a tippling Frenchman is a “ rara avis;” for they know how so easily and completely to keep life in repair by good eating, o146 BOILING. that they require little or no adjustment from drinking. This accounts for that “ toujours gai,” and happy equilibrium of spirits, which they enjoy with more regularity than any peo- ple : the elasticity of their stomachs, unimpaired by spirituous liquors, embrace and digest vigo- rously the food they sagaciously prepare for it, which they render easily assimilable by cooking it sufficiently—wisely contriving to get half the work of the stomach, done by fire and water. See Receipt for Soup and Bouillie, (No. 238.) To salt Beef and Pork. — (No. 6.) Before you salt meat, remember to take out the kernels: there is always one in the udder of a round of beef, another in the fat in the middle of the round, and several about tlie thick end of the flank, and another in the mouse buttock; and if they are not taken out, all the salt in the world will not keep the meat. The Aut of Salting Meat, is to rub in the salt thoroughly and evenly into every part, and to fill all the holes full of salt where the kernels were taken out, and where the butcher’s skewers were. A round of beef of 40 pounds will take a pound and a half of salt to be147 BOILING. rubbed in all at first, and requires to be turned and rubbed every day with the brine: it will be ready for dressing in eight or ten days *, if you do not wish it very salt. In summer, salt your meat as soon as it comes in, and take care to defend it from the flies. In winter, it will eat the shorter and tenderer if kept three or four days before it is salted ; and in frosty weather, warm the salt in a frying pan, and rub it on the meat while it is hot. If you wish it to look red, rub it with Saltpetre, in the proportion of an ounce to a pound of common salt, see savoury salt beef (No. 496.) An H-bone will require about half a pound of salt to be well rubbed into it; and it will be ready in four or five days, if turned and rubbed every day. The time meat requires salting, depends upon the weight of it, and how much salt is used, which if rubbed in with a heavy hand, will be ready much sooner than if only lightly rubbed. Pork requires a longer time to cure it (in proportion to its weight) than beef, and a leg of pork should be in salt eight or ten days. Salted meat should always be well washed • If not to be r\it till cold, two days longer salting will not only iinpiove its flavour, but the meat will keep better. o 2148 BOILING, before it is boiled, especially if it has been in salt long, that the liquor in which the meat is ^boiled, may not be too salt to make soup of. If your meat has been in salt a long time, and you think it will be too salt, lay it in water the night before you intend to dress it. To Boil a Round of sailed Beel.—(N o. 7.) As this is generally too large for a moderate family, so we shall write directions for the dressing half a round ; get the tongue side. Skewer it up as tight and as round as pos- sible, and tie a fillet of broad tape round it, to keep the skewers in their places. Put it into plenty of cold water, and carefully catch the scum as it rises; let it boil till all the scum is removed, and then put the boiler on one side of the fire, to keep simmering till it is done. Half a round of 15lbs. will take nearly three hours very gentle boiling: if it weighs more, give it more time. When you fake it up, wash it well witli a paste brush, and gar- nish the dish with carrots: send up carrots *, turnips, and parsnips, or greens, on separate dishes. Pease pudding is very good with it, see (No. 555.) • Dress plciity; as cold carrots (if well boiled) arc a very laudable aeconiiiaiiinient to cold beef.BOILING. 149 H-Bone of Beef—(No. 8.) Is to be managed in exactly the same man- ner as the round, but will be sooner boiled, as it is not so solid : an H-bone of 201bs. will be enough in about three hours and a half, and H-bones of lOlbs. in two hours. Be sure the boiler is big enough to allow it plenty of water- room; for the more water it is boiled in, and the slower it boils the better it will look, and the tenderer it will eat. The same accompa- nying vegetables, as in the preceding Receipt. Dress plenty of carrots, as cold carrots, are a general favourite with cold beef. Ol)s. — In “ Mrs. Mason’s Ladies’ Assistant” this joint is called haunch-hone; in “ Henderson’s Cookery,” edge-bone; in “ Domestic Manage- ment,” aitch-bone; in “ Reynolds’ Cookery,” ische-bone. We have also seen it spelt ae^-bone, ^flcA-bone, and rh/ge-bone. Ribs of Beef salted and rolled.Q.) Briskets, and the various other pieces, are dressed in the same way. Wow Wow sauce ^No. 328) is an agreeable companion to them. To Boil half a Calf's Head. — (No. 10.) Cut it in two, take out the brains; then wash the head well in several waters, and let o 3BOILING. J50 it lie in soak in warm water for an hour before you dress it. Tie the brains up in a cloth with half a dozen large leaves of sage, and put them with the head into a kettle with plenty of cold water; when it is coming to a boil, and the scum rises, carefully remove it; the meat at the neck-end becoming tender, shows that it is done enough. Half a calf’s-head, without the skin on, will take from an hour and a quar- ter to two hours, according to its size ; with the skin on, about an hour longer. Chop the brains (not very finely) with the sage-leaves that were boiled with them, and send them to table on a separate dish, with the tongue (peeled, and cut down the middle,) laid on each side of them ; or, chop the brains with a shallot, a little parsley, and four hard boiled eggs, and put them into a quarter of a pint of Bechamel, or White Sauce, see. (No. 364.) This dish is usually attended by bacon, see (No. 13,) or pickled pork, and greens, brocoli, cauliflowers, or peas, and always by parsley and butter, see (No. 261,) see also (No. 311,) and (No. 344.) If you like it full dressed, score it super- ficially, and then beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather; pow- der it with a seasoning of dried and powdered lemon-thyme, parsley, pepper, and salt, and151 BOILING. bread crumbs, and give it a brown with a sa- lamander, or in a tin Dutcli oven; when it begins to dry, sprinkle a little melted butter over it witli a paste brush. You may garnish the dish with broiled rashers of bacon, (No. 526, or 527.) 0/>.s\ — Calf’s head is one of the most deli- cate and favourite dishes in tlic list of boiled meats; but nothing is more insipid wlicn cold ; and again, nothing makes so nice a hash; therefore, always save a quart of the licpior your head was boiled in, to make sauce, &-c. for THE HASH, see also (No. 520.) Cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and some slices of the bacon that was dressed to eat with the head, flour them, and lay them ready on a plate. Take the bones of the head and the trimmings, a bundle of sweet herbs, a large onion, and a blaric of bruised mace ; put these into a saucepan with the quart of liquor you have saved, and let it stew for an hour, then put half an ounce of butter into another stew- pan ; when it is melted, add a tablcspoonful of flour to it, stir it well together, and mi.v with it by degrees the gravy you have made with the bones and trimmings, straining it through a hair sieve: season it with a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of catsup,BOILING. 152 or sauce superlative, (No. 429;) give it a boil up, skim it, and then put in the calf’s head and bacon to warm, (it must nut boil after",) and it is ready. N. B. You may garnish the edges of the dish with slices of bacon toasted in a Dutch oven, see (Nos. 526 and 527,) and slices of lemon. Pickled Pork — (No. 11.) Requires more time than any meat. When you cook a leg, which, when well dressed, is a favourite dish with almost every body, take care it does not boil fast; if it does, the knuckle will break to pieces, before the thick part of the meat is warm through: a LEG of seven pounds will take nearly three hours very slow boiling.—To make pease soup, extempore, see (Nos. 218, and 555.) If not done enough, nothing is more dis- agreeable ; if boiled too long, it not only loses its colour and flavour, but its substance becomes soft like a jelly. It must never appear at table without a good large pease pudding, see (No. 555,) and if you please, parsnips, (No. 128,) or carrots, (No. 129,) turnips and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c. (No. 106.) Ohs. Remember not to forget your mustard pot, (No. 369, and No. 370.)1.53 UOILING. Fig^s Pettitoes. — (No. KJ.) Put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of n stewpan, witli some broth, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a few peppercorns, and a bit of thyme : boil the feet till they are quite tender; this will take full twenty minutes; but the heart, liver, and lights, will be done enough in ten ; when they are to be taken out, and minced fine. Put them into a stewpan with some gravy, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flonr, season it with a little pepper and salt, set it over a gentle fire; let them simmer for five minutes, shaking them about very often. While tins is doing, have a thin slice of bread toasted very lightly, divide it into sippets, and lay them round the dish; pour the mince and sauce into the middle of it, and split the feet and lay them round it. N. B. The pettitoes arc sometimes fried in batter. Ohs. — If you have no gravy in the water you stew the pettitoes in, put an onion, a sprig of lemon thyme, or sweet marjoram, with a blade of bruiseil mace, a few black peppers, and a large teaspoonful of lemon pickle; and you will have a very tolerable substitute for gravy.BOILING. 154 Bacon. — (No. 13.) Put a pound of nice streaked bacon into two quarts of boiling water, and let it boil for three quarters of an hour; take it up, scrape the under side well, and cut off the rind; grate a crust of bread over it, and put it before the fire for a few minutes; it must not be there too long, or it will dry it too much and spoil it. Two pounds will require an hour and a half, the hock or gammon being very thick, will take full a quarter of an hour to a pound more. Ham. — (No. 14.) Though of the bacon kind, has been so altered and hardened in the particular way of curing, it requires a very different manner of dressing. Ham is generally not half soaked, as salt as brine, and hard as flint; if it is a very dry Westphalia ham, it must be soaked from 12 to 24 hours; but for a Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham, from 4 to 8 hours will be sufficient. Give it plenty of water room; a copper is the best thing to boil it in; put it in while the water is cold, and keep it well scummed : a middling sized ham of fifteen pounds will be enough in three hours, or three and a half;1 r,ry BOILING. and it will look delicately clean, and eat deli- ciously tender. Pull off the skin carefully, so as to preserve it as whole as possible, as it will form an ex- cellent covering to keep the ham moist: when you have removed the skin, rub some bread raspings through a hair-sieve, or grate a crust of bread over it, or glaze it; and trim the knuckle with a fringe of c\it writing paper. You may garnish with spinage, or turnips, &c. Obs.—To pot ham, see (No. .509) is a much more useful and oeconomical way of disposing of the remains of the joint, than making essence of it, (No. 35-.) To Boil Ham, and make Glaze, S'c. oj the Liquor. — (No. 14*.) Soak a ham according to your judgment, in regard to its saltness; pare it round and under- neath, taking care no rusty part is left; put it in a brazing pan much of its own size, cover it with water, adding any kind of trimmings, as legs, pinions, and bones of poultry ; also pa- rings of butcher’s meat, a carrot, turnip, onion and bunch of sweet herbs; when it boils, take off the scum, simmer it very gently for four <>iII 156 BOILT^’G. five hours; when it is tender, take off the skin, glaze it, or strew with bread raspings ; strain off the consomme it was boiled in, take off the fat, it will give an excellent flavour to any kind of soup or sauce Tongue. — (No. 15.) A Tongue is so hard, whether prepared by drying or pickling, that it requires much more time, &c. than a ham; nothing, of its weight, takes so long to dress it properly. A tongue that has been salted and dried, should be put to soak 24 hours before it is wanted, in plenty of water; a green tongue fresh from the pickle requires soaking only a few hours; put your tongue into plenty of cold water, and give it from three and a half to four hours very slow simmering, according to its size: about half an hour before it is done, take it up, peel it, and put it into the pot again to finish it. It is a general rule with most cooks, to try if the tongue will peel, and then allow it half an hour after that. Ohs. — When you choose a tongue, pick out that which has the smoothest skin, which de- notes its being young, and of course it is more likely to be tender.bOll.lNG. Turkeys, Fowls, S)C.—(No. Ki.) Are all boiled exactly in the same manner, and according to the same rides, only allowing time, according to their size. For stntHngs, &c. see (Nos. 374, 375, and 377.) A chicken will take about • • • • 20 minutes. A fowl 40 A large fowl or capon aliout an hour. A small Turkey, an hour and a half. A large ditto, two hours or more. Turkeys should not be dressed till they have been killed three or four days, or they will neither boil white or eat tender. Turkeys, and large fowls, should always have the strings or sinews of the thighs drawn out. Fowls ibr boiling should be chosen as white as possible; therefore those which have black legs had better be roasted. The best use of the liver is to make sauce, see (No. 287.) •Make a good and clear (ire; set on a clean pot, with plenty of pure and clear water, the more the better; and the slower it boils, the whiter and plunpier the fowl will be. When there rises any scum remove it, the common method of some who are more nice than wise, IS to wrap them up in a cloth, to prevent the siMim attaching to them; which if it does, by iBOILING. 158 your neglecting to skim your pot, there is no getting it ofF afterwards, and the Poulterer is blamed for the fault of the Cook. If there be water enough, and it is attentively scummed, the fowl will both look and eat much better this way than when it has been covered up in the cleanest cloth; and the colour and flavour of your poultry will be preserved in the most charming and delicate perfection. Obs. — Don’t forget bacon and greens, and parsley and butter, (No. 261,) and liver, (No. 287,) egg, (No. 267,) or oyster sauce, (No. 278) if you please. Rabbits. — (No. 17.) Truss your rabbits short, put them into plenty of water, and boil them half an hour ; if large ones, three quarters; smother them with plenty of white onion sauce, (No. 298,) and send up liver sauce (No. 287) in a boat. Ohs.—Ask those you are going to make liver sauce for, if they like plain liver sauce, or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce, sec (Nos. 287 and 288.) Tripe. — (No. IS.) Take care to have fresh tripe, and cleanse it well from the fat, and cut it into pieces abmit159 BOILING. two inches broad and four long; put it into a stewpan and cover it with milk and water, and let it boil gently till it is tender; this will take about two hours. Boil (by themselves) some Spanish, or the whitest common onions you can get; w'tten they are tender, which a middling sized onion will be in about twenty minutes, drain them in a hair sieve, and put them with the tripe into a tureen or soup-dish; take off the fat if any floats on tlie surface; but tripe dressed in this way is seldom greasy. Obs.-—Rashers of bacon, see (Nos. 526, and 527,) are a very good accompaniment to boiled tripe, cow heels, or calf’s feet.THE COOK’S ORACLE. ROASTING. N.13. If the Time ire have givot for Boa^^ting, ajtpears rather longer than what is stated in former workSf we can only say, we have wiitten from aetval experiments, and the difference may be accounted for, by common Cooks generally being fond of too fierce a Jire, and putting things too near to it. Sir-Loin of BEEF. — (No. 19-) The noble Sirloin* of about fifteen pounds, will require to be before the fire about four hours; take care to spit it evenly, that it may not be heavier on one side than the other; put a little clean dripping into the dripping pan, (tie a sheet of paper over it to preserve the fatf, baste * This Joint is said to owe its name to Kins: Cliarles the Second, who dining upon a Loin of Beef, and being particularly pleased with it, asked the name of the Joint; said for its merit it sliould be knighted, and henceforth called Sir-Loin. “ Our second Cliarles of fame faccte. On loin of Beef did dine; lie lield his swoid, |»leasM, oVr ihc meat, Arise, lliou famM NVr-Loin.” Ballad of the Xew 67r John Barleycorn, T'he Ballad of “ The Gates of Calais” calls it “ lUnownM N7r-Toin, oft-times decreed Till* ihcmc of Knglish Ballad; On iliee our kings oft deign to feed. Unknown to I'renchman’s palate : Then how inneh doth thy taste exceed Soiip-incagre, frogs, and salad!” t If there is more Eat, than you think will be eaten with the meat, cut it off, it will make an excellent pudding; or clarify it, see (No. 84,) and use it forUOASTINO. 161 It well as soon as it is put down, and baste it every quarter of an hour all the time it is roast- ing, till the last half hour; then take oft' the paper, and make some gravy for it, see (No. 326,) stir the fire and make it clear; to brown and froth it, sprinkle a little salt over it, baste it with butter, and dredge it with flour; let it go a few minutes longer, till the froth rises, take it up, put it on the dish, &c. Garnish with horseradish scraped as fine as possible xvith a very sharp knife. A Yorkshire pudding, is an excellent accompaniment, (No. 595.) Obs. — The inside of the sirloin, must never be cut hot, but reserved entire for the hash, or a MOCK HARE, See (No. 67*.) (See the Re- ceipt to Hash or Broil Beef,) (No. 506,) and (No. 484,) and (Nos. 486, and 487.) Ribs of Beef. —ifSo. GO.) The three first ribs, of fifteen or twenty pounds, will take three hours and a half; the trying: for those who like their meat done thoroughly, 4nd use a moderate fire for roasting, the fat need not he covered with paper. If your beef is large, and your family small, c»U oti the thin end and salt it, and cut out and dress the fillet, (i. e. commonly called the inside) next day as a Mock Hare, (No. 67*) thus you get three good hot dinners. P 3162 ROASTING. fourth and fifth ribs will take as long, managed in the same way as the sirloin. Paper the fat, and the thin part, or it will be done too much, before the thick part is done enough. Tlih& of Beef honed and rolled.—(No. 21.) When you have kept two or three ribs of beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and skewer it as round as possible, (like a fillet of veal;) as the meat is more in a solid mass, it will require more time at the fire than in the preceding receipt; and a piece of ten or twelve pounds weight, will not be well and thoroughly roasted in less than three hours and tliree quarters. For the first half hour, it should not be less than 12 inches from the fire, that it may get gradually warm to the centre: the last half hour before it will be finished, sprinkle a little salt over it, and Hour and froth it. Hump of Beef—(No. 22.) Is very difficult to spit, and should have twr strong skewers tied on it to keep it steady ; the usual weight is from sixteen to twenty-four pounds; and the time it must be at the fire, from four hours to four and a half.ROASTING. 163 Roast MUTTON*.—(Ko. 23.) As beef re<|uires a large sound fire, mutton must have a brisk and sliarp one; it is never well done unless the fire is quick and clear; and if you wish to have mutton tender, it should be hung as long as it will keep f; Rnd then, good eight-tooth Mutton, is as fine eating as Venison. * Dean Swift’s Rixcipt to Roast Mutton. “ Gi’iitly stir and blow tlie tire. Lay tile mutton down to roast, Diess it quickly I desire, In tlie dripping put a toast. That I hunger may remove,— INIntton is the meat I love. “ On the dresser see it lie; Oh! the charming white and red; Finer meat ne’er met the eye. On the sweetest grass it fed ; Let the jack go swiftly round. Let me have it nicely brown’d. “ On the table spread the cloth. Let the knives be sharp and clean, l^ickles get and salad both. Let them each be fresh and green. With small beer, good ale, and wine, O ye gods I how I shall dine!” t .Sec the 2d chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery, page eg.UOASTING. 164 This will be the better for being hung up in a cool airy place for four or five days at least, in moderate weather, a week; in cold weather, ten days. • A Leg. — (No. £4.) A leg of eight pounds will take about two hours : let it be well basted, and frothed in the same manner as directed in (No. 19.) yl Chine, — (No. 25.) (/. e. the two loins) or A Saddle, — (No. 26.) {i. e. the two necks,) of ten or eleven pounds, two hours and a half: tie a sheet of paper over them; (baste the strings you tie it on with directly, or they will burn;) and let the meat be well basted. A Shoulder, — (No. 27.) Of seven pounds, an hour and a half; put the spit in close to the shank bone, and run it along the blade bone; take care to froth it165 ROASTING. A I Mill*, — (No. 28.) Of mutton an hour and a Iialf. 'J'/ic most elegant xiui/ of earring this, is to cut it length- wise, as you do a saddle. N. B. Spit it on a skewer or lark spit, and tie that on the common spit, and do not spoil the meat, by running the spit through the prime part of it. A Acf/,-, — (No. 2().) An hour and a half. It must be carefully jointed, or it is very bad to carve. Obs. — If there is more fat than you think will be eaten uith the lean, cut it off, and it will make an excellent suet pudding A Iheast, — (No. 30.) An hour and a cpiarter. • Common Cooks, very seldom brown the ciuls of necks and loins: to have this done nicely, let the lire be a few inches lon<;er at each end, than the joint that is roastin», and oecasioiially plaee the spit slanting, so that each end, may get sidfieient lire; hut nothing does this in such perfi'ction as the muGUT ulock tin CONCAVE itEFi.ECTous before mentioned. This is better tlian taking up the meat and putting the ends before the lire; as, by the latter method, you cannot send it to table frothed.1 ROASTING. A Haunch, — (No. 31.) {i. e. the leg and part of the loin) of mutton, is spitted and managed in the same way as a haunch of Venison; (see Receipt, No. 63,) send up two sauce boats with it; one of rich drawn gravy, made without spice or herbs, (No. 347,) and the other of sweet sauce, (No. 346.) It generally weighs about 15 pounds, and requires about four hours to roast it. Venison fashion. — (No. 32.) Take a neck of good five or six year old south-down mutton cut long in the bones; let it hang at least a week; two days before you dress it, take allspice and black pepper ground and pounded fine, a quarter of an ounce each, with a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and a large spoonful of brown sugar; rub them all well together, and then rub your mutton well with this mixture twice a day: when you dress it, wash off the spice with warm water, and roast it in paste, as we have ordered the haunch of venison; (No. 63,) a haunch of mutton will take double the quantity of the preparation, and one day longer preparing than the neck. Ohs. — Ingenious Epicures, have invented many methods to make Mutton eat like Ve-ROASTING. I h7 nison; the above is the best imitation \vc have met with; some say it may be taken for Venison, others that it is full as good; the refined palate of a Grand Gourmand of good taste perhaps will not allow' this ; however, if you get prime mutton, keep it a proper time, and prepare and dress it with the accompaniments usually given to V'enison, see (No. 346,) and (No. 347,) you may depend upon having a most delicious din- ner; if it does not possess all the precise fha- vour of Venison, it is certainly the most savoury and elegant way of eating Mutton, and is not attended with any extraordinary trouble or expense. l KAL. — {lSo. 33.) Veal requires particular care to roast it a fine brown. Let the fire be the same as for beef: a sound large fire for a large joint, and a brisker for a smaller; put it at some distance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and then draw it near to finish it brown. When it is first laid down. It is to be basted with butter; when it is almost done, it is to be Ixisted again, 'And lightly dredged with a little flour to froth it nicely. It 'ith those joints which arc not stuffed, send up • ah"s or halls of forcemrat, (No. 374.) or168 ROASTING. (No. 375,) as garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages, (No. 87.) Bacon, and greens, are also always expected to attend veal. Fillet of Feal, — (No. 34.) Of from twelve to fourteen pounds, will re- quire three hours and a half at a good fire; stuff it with forcemeat, see Receipt, (No. 374,) where the bone is taken out, and under the flap, that there may be some of the stuffing left to eat cold, or to season a hash : brown it and froth it in the same way as beef, and pour good melted butter over it; garnish with thin slices of lemon, and cakes or balls of stuff- ing, (No. 374,) or (No. 375,) or fried pork sau- sages, see (No. 87,) Curry sauce, (No. 348), &-c. A Loin, — (No. 35.) Is the best part of the calf: it will take two hours and three quarters roasting. Paper the kidney fat, and the back: and some Cooks send it up on a toast, which is eaten with the kidney and fat, &c. A Shoulder, — (No. 36.) About three hours: stuff it with the force- meat ordered for the fillet of veal, in the un- derside.ROASTING. 1(39 Neck, best end, — (No. .‘37-) Will take two hours. The scrag part of a neck of veal is not so good roasted ; it is best made into a pye, or broth. Breast, — (No. 38.) An hour and a half. Let the caid remain on till it is almost done, then take it off, to brown it; baste, dour, and froth it. I eal Sweetbread. — (No. 39.) Trim a fine sweetbread, parboil it for four or five minutes, and throw it into a basin of cold water. Beat up the yolk of an egg, and prepare some fine bread crumbs. When the sweetbread is cold, dry it tlioroughly in a cloth, run a lark spit or a skewer through it, and tie it on the ordinary spit; egg it all over with a paste brush, and powder it well with bread crumbs, and put it down to roast: twenty or thirty minutes will dress it. For sauce, fried bread cnimbs round it and melted butter, with a little mushroom catsup and lemon juice, or (Nos. 354, or 356.) Ohs.— Instead of spitting them, you may put them into a tin Dutch oven, or (No. 88, or 89. or 513.)170 ROASTING. — 40.) Is a delicate tender meat, easily spoiled in the dressing, unless the fire be small and brisk, and kept clear all the while; the meat must be papered on the outside; and to the usual ac- companiments of roast meat, great mint sauce, see (No. 303,) or a salad, is commonly added; and some Cooks, about five minutes before it is done, dredge it with a little minced parsley. Grass lamb is in season from Easter to Michaelmas. House lamb from Christmas to Lady-day. N. B. When green mint cannot be got, the mint vinegar, (No. 398,) is an admired substi- tute for it. Hind Quarter^—^(No. 41.) Of eight pounds, will take from an hour and three quarters to two hours; baste and froth it in the same way as directed in (No. 19.) Fore Quarter, — (No. 42.) Of ten pounds, two hours. N. B It is a pretty general custom, when you take off the shoulder from the ribs, to squeeze a Seville orange over them, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt.ROASTING. 171 Leg, — (No. 43.) Ol five pounds, an hour and a half to thrci quarters. Shoulder, — (No. 44.) With a quick fire an hour. JUbs,— (No. 45 ) From 45 to 60 minutes. Loin, — (No. 46.) An hour and a quarter. Neck, — (No. 47.) An liour. Breast, — (No. 48.) Three quarters of an hour. PORK.—(No. 49.) The prime season for Pork, is from Michael- mas to March. Take particular care, it be done enough: other meats underdone are un- pleasant, but pork is uneatable.— Remember your mustard pot, (Nos. 369 and 370.) See for sauces, (No. 304,) and (No. 341,) and (No. 342.) 06s. —Pease pudding, (No. 555,) is as good an accompaniment to roasted, as it is to boiled y 2172 ROASTING. pork; and most palates, are pleased with the savoury powder set down in (No. 51,) sprinkled on the crackling. 4 Leg, —(No. 50.) Of eight pounds, will require three hours; score the skin across in narrow stripes, about a quarter of an inch apart; stulF the knuckle, with sage and onion minced fine; see Duck stuffing, (No. 61 ;) rub a little sw'eet oil on the skin with a paste brush, or a goose feather; this makes the crackling crisper and browner than basting it with dripping; and it will be a better colour, than all the art and diligence of cookery can make it any other w'ay. This is the best way of preventing the skin from blistering. Leg of Pork rousted without the Skin, or Mock Goose. — (No. 51.) Parboil it for half an hour, take oft the skin, and then put it down to roast; baste it with butter, and make a savoury powder of dried and powdered sage, ground black pepper, salt, and bread crumbs; sprinkle it with this, from time to time, as it roasts; put half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and put Goose stuffing, (No. 378,) under the knuckle skin.ROASTING. 173 The Grishin, — (No. 52.) Of seven or eight pounds, may he dressed in the same manner: it will take an hour and a half roasting. J Bacon Sparerib, — (No. 53.) Usually weighs about eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to three hours to roast it well; not exactly according to its weight, but the thickness of the meat upon it, which varies very much ; lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A proper bald sparerib of eight or nine pounds iveight, (so called because almost all the meat is pared oft’,) with a good steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quarter: there is so little meat on a bald sparerib, if you have a large fierce fire, it will be burnt before it is warm through. When you lay it down, dust on some flour, and baste it with a little butter; dry twelve sage leaves, and rub them through a hair sieve : about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done, baste it, strew on the pulverized sage, <lust on a little flour, and sprinkle it with a little salt. Obs. — Make it a general rule, never to pour gravy over any thing that is roasted ; by so doing, the dredging is washed otT, and it cats q3174 ROASTING. insipid. Some people, carve a Sparerib by cutting out slices in the thick part at the bottom of the bones ; when this meat is cut away, the bones may be easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet picking. Apple sauce, (No. 304,) mashed potatoes, (No. 106,) and good mustard, (No. 370,) are indispensible. Loin,—(No. 54.) Of five pounds, must be kept to the fire about an hour and a half. Score the skin in stripes, about a quarter of an inch apart, and rub it with salad oil, as directed in the re- ceipt for the leg; and you may sprinkle over it, some of the Savoury powder recommended for the Mock Goose, see (No. 51.) A Chine, — (No. 55.) If parted down the back-bone, so as to have but one side, a good fire will roast it in two hours ; if not parted, three hours. Roast Pig. — (No. 5o.) A Sucking Pig, is in prime order for the spit, when about three weeks old; it should be fat, and newly killed. It is not like other meats, good, as long as sweet, but loses part of its goodness every hour after it is175 ROASTING. killed; and if not quite fresh, no art can make the crackling crisp. To be in perfection, it should be killed in the morning, do be eaten at dinner; and it requires the most careful roasting, (a sucking pig, like a young child, must not be left for an instant;) the ends, must have much more fire than the middle. For this purpose, is contrived an iron to hang before the middle part, called a pig iron. When the cook has not this, she must keep the fire fiercest, at the two ends. Take the crumb of a stale twopenny loaf, (i. e. about four ounces,) rub it through a cullender ; mince fine, a hand- ful of sage, (/. c. about two ounces,) and a large onion, (about an ounce and a half*); mix these together with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit of butter as big as an egg; fill the belly of the pig with this, and sew it up ; lay it to the fire, and take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and keep basting it till it is quite done ; do not leave it a moment, for it requires the most vigilant attendance. Roast it at a clear brisk fire, at some distance, * Some delicate palates, desire the (3ook to par-boil the sage and onions iii a little water (before they are cut;) to soften and take off the rawness of their flavour ; the older and drier the onion, the stronger will be its flavour.ROASTING. 176 that the crackling may get nicely crisped and browned, without being blistered or burnt: a small three-weeks old pig will be enough* in about an hour and a half, or two hours. Be- fore you take it off the spit, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the middle; chop the brains very fine with some boiled sage, and mix them with good veal gravy, made as directed in (No. 192,) or beef gravy, (No. 329,) or what runs from the pig when you cut its head off. Send up a tureenful of gravy, (No. 329) besides. Lay your pig back to back in the dish, with one half of the head on each side, and the ears, one at each end, which you must take care to make nice and crisp, or you will get scolded, as the good man was, who bought his wife a pig with only one ear. Obs.— Some professors of Cookery, insist upon it, that nothing so well produces and pre- serves the beauty and crispness of the Crack- ling, as salad oil, applied as directed in the receipt to roast a leg of pork, (No. 50.) To dress Pettitoes, see (No. 12.) N. B. A pig, is a very troublesome subject to roast, and many persons have them baked; * Some Cooks say, the eyes dropping out is the only infallible criterion that it is done thoroughly.177 ROASTl’NO. send a quarter of a pound of butter, and beg' tbe baker to baste it well. Turkey. — (No. 57 ) A fowl, and a turkey, require the same ma- nagement at the fire, only the latter will take more time. Many a Christmas dinner has been spoiled, by the turkey having been hung up in a cold larder, till it has become thoroughly frozen; and Jack frost has ruined the reputa- tion of many a Turkey-Roaster; therefore, in very cold weather, remember the advice given you in the 3d page of the 2d chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery. Let them be carefully picked, &c. and twist up a sheet of clean writing paper, light it, and thoroughly singe the turkey all over, turning it about over the flame. Be careful, when you draw them, to preserve the liver, and not to break the gall-bag, as no washing will take off the bitter taste it gives, where it once touches. Prepare a nice clear brisk fire, for if the fire be poor and dead, your poultry will be vapid, ill-tasted, and without relish. Prepare your stuffing according to (No. 374, or 376,) and stuff it under the breast, where the craw was taken out; paper the breast.ROASTING. 178 place the liver under one wing, and the giz.- zard under the other, baste it with butter, and dredge it with flour, keep it at a distance from the fire for the last half hour, that it may warm gradually, then put it nearer, and when it is plumped up, and the steam draAvs in to- ward the fire, it is nearly enough; now take off the paper., put a bit of butter into your basting ladle, and as it melts, baste the turkey with it, and dredge it lightly again Avith flour; this, will raise a much finer froth, than using the drippings out of the pan. A very large Turkey, of fourteen or fifteen pounds Aveight, will require three hours, to roast it thoroughly; a middling sized one, of eight or ten pounds, about two hours; a small one, may be done in an hour and a half. Fried pork sausages, see (No. 87) are a very savoury and relishing accompaniment, to either roasted or boiled poultry. A Turkey, thus garnished, is called “ an Alderman in Chains.” Sausage meat is sometimes used as stuffing, instead of the ordinai'y forcemeat. In cold weather, a turkey eats the better, for being kept eight or ten days. If you Avish it to be tender, never dress it till at least four or five days after it has been killed, or a foAvl till after three. Hen turkeys are preferable to Cocks,179 ROASTINO. for whiteness and tenderness, and the small fleshy ones, with black legs, are most esteemed. Send up with them, oyster, (No. 278,) egg, (No. 267,) bread, (No. 321,) and plenty of gravy sauce, (No. 329.) Capons or Fowls. — (No. 58.) These, must be killed a couple of days before they are dressed, or they will eat tough: they are managed exactly in the same manner, and sent up with the same sauces as a turkey, only they require proportionately less time at the fire; a full grown fowl, about an hour and a quarter, a moderate size one, an hour, and a chicken from thirty to forty minutes. Here also. Pork Sausages fried, are in general, a favourite accompaniment, or stuff them with turkey stuffing; see Forcemeats, (Nos. 374, 5, 6, and 7;) put in plenty of it, so as to plump out the fowl, which must be tied closely, (both at the neck and rump) to keep in the stuffing: some cooks, put the liver of the fowl into this forcemeat, and others, rub it up with flour and butter, to thicken and give flavour to the gravy, which again receives further improvement, by stewing the legs of the fowl in it, instead of sending them to table—and the fowl looks much better without them. Take care liia(ROASTING. 180 your roa&t poultry, be well browned, it is as indispensable, that roasted poultry, should have a rich brown complexion, as boiled poultry should have a delicate white one. Obs.—The age in poultry makes all the difference; nothing is tenderer than a chicken, and few things are tougher or harder of digestion than an old cock or hen. The season of per- fection, in poultry, is just before, they have quite come to their full growth, and before they have begun to harden. Goose. — (No. 5[).) When your goose is well picked, singed, and cleaned, take two large onions*, i. e. about two ounces, and half as much green sage, chop them very one, adding four ounces of, i. e. about a large breakfastcupful of stale bread crumbs, and a very little pepper and salt, (to this some cooks add half the liver, parboiling it first,) the yolk of an egg, and incorporating the whole well together, put this stuffing into the goose; do not quite fill it with stuffing, but leave a little • If yon think the flavour of raw onions too strong, cut them in slices, and lay them in cold water for a couple ot hours, or add as much apple or potatoe as yon have of onion.181 ROASTING. room for it to swell. Spit it, and tie it on the spit at both ends, to prevent its swinging round, and to keep the stuffing from coming out. From an hour and a half to two hours, will roast a large full grown goose. Send up rich Gravy, and Apple sauce with it, see (Nos. 304, 329, and 341.) For another stuffing for geese, see (No. 378,) Chapter on Forcemeats, SfC. Obs. — The Michaelmas Goose, is famous, in the mouths of the million; but, for those who eat with delicacy, it is at that time, too full grown. The true period, when the goose is in its highest perfection, is whep it has just ac- quired its full growth, and not begun to harden. If the Midsummer goose, is insipid, the Michael- mas goose, is rank; the fine time, is between both ; from the third week in June, to the second in September. Green Goose.— (No. 60.) The only difference between roasting a green and a full grown goose, consists, in leaving out the sage and onion, putting a seasoning of pepper and salt into it, and roasting it for forty or fifty minutes only. 'fhe following forcemeat, is sometimes intro- duced ; chop some sweet herbs, grate some u.ROASTING. 182 bread, nutmeg, pepper and salt, inoistea them with an egg, and mix them with the liver cut small, and a bit of minced bacon. Fill the body of the goose with it. jyuck. — (No. 61.) Mind your duck is well cleaned, and wiped out with a clean cloth; then take an ounce of onion, and half an ounce of green sage, chop them vei'y fine, and mix them with two ounces, i. e. about a teacupful of bread crumbs, a very little pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg to bind it; mix these thoroughly together, and put into the duck. For another stulbng, see (No. 378). Thirty, or forty minutes, will be enough to roast it, according to the size: contrive to have the feet delicately crisp, as some people are very fond of them : to do this nicely, you must have a very sharp fire. For sauce, see (No. 341) and (No. 329.) N. B. If you think the raw onion, will make too strong an impression upon your palate, par- boil it. (No. 62.) For the following observations, I am indebted to Major llawker’.s entertaining and informinu'ROASTING. 183 \Tork, “ Jnstrmctims for Young Sportsmen f 1.on- don, 1816. “ Old pheasants may be distinguished by the Length and sharpness of their spurs, wliich in the vounger ones are short and blunt. “ Old partridges are always to be known during the early part of the season, by their legs being of a pale blue, instead of a yellowish brown: so that when a Londoner receives his brace of blue legged birds in September, he should immediately snap their legs and draw out the sinews, by means of pulling oil' the feeL instead of leaving them to torment him, like so many strings, when he would be wishing to enjoy his repast. This remedy to make the legs tender, removes the objection to old birds, provided the weather will admit of their being sufficiently kept; and indeed they are then often preferable, from having a higher flavour. “ If birds are over-kept, their legs will be dry, their eyes much sunk, and the vent will become soft, and somewhat discoloured. The first place to ascertain if they are beginning to be high, is the inside of their bills, where it is not amiss to put some hether straw, or spice, if you waul to keep them for any length of time. Birds that have fallen into the water, or have, not had time to get cold, sliould not be packed K ‘2ROASTING. 184 like others, .but sent openly, and dressed as soon as possible. Sportsmen are often heartily abused by their acquaintance, (I cannot yet bring myself to hackney the word friends quite so fluently as I ought to do) for sending them ‘ tough and good-for-nothing game,’ while probably the blame should, in many instances, rest with them- selves, or their pudding-headed cook, who may be dresses an old pheasant or hare the very day after it was killed; or perhaps, while engrossed in a story or argument, leaves it to roast away, till there remains neither juice nor flavour. All game should be kept till properly tender. The following sauce for wild fowl has been preferred to about fifty others; and, at one time, was not to be got without the fee of a guinea: Recipe for Sauce to IVild Foa ls. Port wine, or claret 1 glass. Sauce a la Riisse *, (tlie older ) the better) f table.epoonful. Catsr.]) 1 ditto. Lemon juice 1 ditto. Lemon peel 1 slice. Shalot, (a large) 4 sliced. Cayenne Pepper, (the darkest, j not that like brick dust) • • f srains. Mace 1 or 2 blades. • Sold by Aveling and Hill, corner of Albemarle Streetj Piccadilly, and a very good sauce it is.18.'7 UOASTING. To be scalded, strained, and added to the mere gravy which comes from the bird in roasting. To complete this, the fowl should be cut up in a silver dish which has a lamp under it, while the sauce is simmering with it. ILiunch of Venison.—(No. ()3.) Make a paste of flour and water, as much as will cover a haunch of venison; wipe it over with a dry cloth, in every part, and take oil' tlie skin from the upper side: rub a large sheet of paper all over with butter, and cover the ve- il.son with it, then roll out the paste about three quarters of an inch thick, and lay this all over the fat side, and cover it well, with three or four sheets of strong white paper, and tie it very well on with packthread; have a strong close fire, and baste your venison, as soon as you lay it down to roast, to prevent the paper and string from burning; it must be well basted .ill the time. A haunch of sixteen pounds, will take four hours and a half roasting: a quarter of an hour before it is done, the string must be cut, and the paste carefully taken off'; now baste it with butter, dredge it lightly with flour, ami when the froth ri.ses, and it has got a tine light brown colour, garnish the knuckle bone with a ruffle of cut writing paper, and semi it 11 :i186 ROASTING. up, with good strong (but unsensoned) gravy in one boat, and currant-jelly sauce in the other, or currant-jelly in a side plate (not melted), see for sauces (Nos. 344, 5, 6, and 7.) Obs. Buck venison, is in greatest perfection from Midsummer to Michaelmas, and Doe, from November to January. Neck o.nd Shoulder of kenisoit,—(No. 64.) Are to be managed in the same way as the haunch; only, as they are smaller joints, they will not require so much time. The best way to spit a neck, is to put three skewers through, and put the spit, between the skewers and the bones. J FuzeII, — (No. 65.) When very young, is trussed, stuffed, and spitted the same way as a hare. But they arc better eating, when of the size of a house lamb ; they are then roasted in quarters, and the hind quarter is most esteemed. They must be put down to a very quick fire, and either basted all the time they are roasting, or be covered with sheets of fat bacon; when done, baste it witli butter, and dredge it witli a little salt and flour, till you make a nice froth on it.187 ROASTING. Send up venison sauce with it. See the pre- ceding receipt, or (No. 344,) &c. Hare —(No, (36.) This Receipt was given us by Dr. Kitchiner’s Housekeeper. The first points of consideration are, how old is the hare? and how long has it been killed ? When voung it is easy of digestion, and very nourishing; but when old, the contrary in every respect. To ascertain the age, examine the first joint of the fore foot; you will find a small knob, if it is a leveret, which disappears as it grows older; then examine the ears ; if they tear easily, it will eat tender; if they are tough, so will be the hare; which will eat better made into soup (No. 241,) or stewed, or jugged, see (No. .529,) than it will roasted. When newly killed, the body is stiff; as it grows stale, it becomes limper. As soon as you receive a hare, take out the liver, parboil it, and keep it for the stuffing, for some are very fond of it; but do not use it, if it be not quite fresh and good. Wipe the hare quite dry, rub the inside with pepper, and hang it up in a dry cool place. Do not prepare too fierce a fire, or you will burn the outside before the inside is warm.188 ROASTING. When you have paunched and skinned your hare, wash it, and lay it in a large pan of cold water, for four or five hours, changing the water two or three times ; lay it in a clean cloth, and drv it well; tlien truss it. To make the Stuffing, take a twopenny loaf, and rub the crumb through a cullender, some dried sweet herbs rubbed fine, a handful of parsley, and a roll of lemon peel, cut very thin, and minced very fine, some pepper and salt, and a bit of butter as big as a walnut: mix all well together with the yolk of an egg or two, and moisten it with a little milk; (do not make it too thin, as it should be of cohesive consistence, if it is not .sufficiently stiff, it is good for nothing): put this pudding into the belly, sew it up tight, cut the neck skin to let the blood out, or it will never appear to be done enough, spit it, and put a quart of milk* into your drippingpan, and baste it continually till you think it is nearly done, which a middling sized hare will be in about an hour and a quarter; if it wants more milk, let it have it, or it will be hard and dry. When it * Mrs. Charlotte Mason, in lier “ Complete System of Cookery,” page «83, says she lias “ tried all the different things recommended to baste a hare with, and never found any thing so good as small beer; our receipt says milk ; which we believe is better than any thing.”IlOASTl .N G. 1R9 IS almost roasted enoug'li, put a cjuarter of a pound of butter into your basting-ladle, and baste it with this, and flour it, and froth it nicely. Serve with good gravy, see (No. 329,) or (No. 347,) and currant-jelly. P'or another Stuffing, see receipt (No. 379.) Some Cooks cut oft’ the head, and divide it, and lay one half on each side of the hare. Obs.— Hares should be paunched in the field when caught, or as soon as they are brought home; make an incision in the belly, about four inches long, then lay hold of the head and ears with one hand, and the rump with the other, shaking it for a little while backwards and for- wards, and the guts and stomach will fall out, leaving the heart, kidneys, and liver behind; wipe it, &c. as we have directed in the begin- ning of this receipt, and put in a wisp of dry straw, or hay, and sew it up; it will then keep as long again. Cold roast hare will make an excellent Soup, see (No. 241,) chopped to pieces, and stewed in three quarts of water for a couple of hours; the stuffing will be a very agreeable substitute, for sweet herbs and seasoning. See receipt for HARE SOUP (No. 241,) hashed HARr (No. .529.)190 TvOASTlNC;. Mock Hare. — (No. 66. Cut out the inside of a sirloin of beef, leaving tlie fat, to roast with the joint. Prepare some stuffing, as directed for a hare, in (No. 66, or 379); put this on the beef, and roll it up with tape, put a skewer through it, and tie that on a spit. Obs. — If the beef is of prime quality, has been kept till thoroughly tender, and you serve with it the accompaniments that usually attend roast hare, the most fastidious palate, will have no reason to regret that the game season is over. Rabbit. — (No. 67.) If your fire is clear and sharp, thirty minutes, will roast a young rabbit, and forty a full grown one. Before you truss them, hold their heads for a few minutes in boiling water. When you lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge it lightly and carefully with flour, that you may have it frothy, and of a fine light brown. While the rabbit is roasting, boil its liver with some parsley; when tender, chop them together, and put half the ini.xture into some melted ljuttcr, reserving the other half for191 HOASTINCi. ^ruisli, divided into little hillocks. Cut off’ the head, divide it, and lay half on each side of the dish. Obs. — A large, well grown, (but young) war- ren-rabbit, kept some time after it has been killed; and roasted with a stuffing in its belly, eats very like a hare, to the nature of which it approaches ; and it is very nice nourishing food when young, but hard and unwholesome wheti old. Pheasintt, — (No 68.) Requires a smart fire, but not a fierce one. Thirty minutes, will roast a young bird; and forty or fifty a full grown pheasant. Pick and draw it, cut a slit in the back of the neck, and take out the craw, but don’t cut the head oft’; wipe the inside of the bird with a clean cloth, twist the legs close to the body, leave the feet on, but cut the toes off; turn the head under the wing, and skewer the wings close to the back: baste it, butter and froth it, &c., as we liave given you instructions to do in the receipt to roast fowls and turkeys. Mock Pheasant.—'(No. 69.) If you have only one pheasant, and wish for a companion for it, g<>t a line young fowl, nf as192 ROASTING. tiear as may be the same size as the bird to be matched. Truss it with the head on, turned exactly like the pheasant’s, and dress it accord- ing- to the above directions. Few persons, will discover which is the pheasant, and which is the fowl, especially if the latter has been kept four or five days. Obs.—This is certainly the best way of dressing a fowl. Guinea Fowls, — (No. 69.*) Are dressed in the same way as pheasants. Partridges, — (No. 70.) Are cleaned and trussed in the same manner as a pheasant^ and the breast is so plump, it will require almost as much time roasting: send up with them rice sauce (No. 321 *,) or bread sauce (No. 321,) and good gravy (No. 329.) *,* IJ you wish to preserve them lunger than you think they will keep good undressed, half roast them and they will keep two or three days longer. Black Lock, (No. 7 1.) Moor Game, (No. 72.) ami Grouse, (No. 7S.) Are all to be dressed, like pheasants and partridges : the l)lack cock, will lake as much19.3 iUJA S I If. G. time as a pheasant, and the moor game, and grouse, as the partridge. Send up with them. Currant-jelly and fried Bread crumbs. IVi/d Ducks. — (No. 74.) For roasting a wild duck, you must have a clear brisk fire; for it must be browned upon the outside, without being sodden within. To have it well frothed, and full of gravy, is the nicety. Prepare the fire, by stirring and raking it just before the bird is laid down, and fifteen or twenty minutes will do it in the fashionable way; but if it is recjuired a little more done, allow it a few minutes longer ; if it is too much, it will lose all its fine high flavour. For the sauce, see (No. 338) and (No. 62.) f'Vidgenus and Teal,—(No. 75.) Are dressed exactly as the wild duck ; only that less time is requisite for a Widgeon, and still less for a Teal, Woodcock. — (No. 7(i.) Tie them on a small bird spit, put them to roast at a clear fire ; cut as many slices of bread as you have birds, toast or fry them a delicate lirow'n, ;uid lay them in the dripping pan uruUr SROASTING. 194 the birds, to catch the trail*; baste them witli butter, and froth them with flour; lay the toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the toast; pour some good beef gravy into the dish, and send some up in a boat, see (No. 339;) twenty or thirty minutes, will roast them. Garnish with slices of lemon. Obs. — Some Epicures like this bird vei'y much underdone, and we have heard them direct that a Woodcock should be just introduced to the cook, for her to shew it the fire, and then send it up to table. Snipes, — (No. 77.) Differ little from Woodcocks, unless in size, and they are to be dressed in the same way ; but require from their smaller size, from five, to ten minutes, less time to roast them. Roast Pigeons. — (No. 73.) When the pigeons are trussed for roasting, chop a handful of green parsley very fine, a roll of lemon peel, stale bread crumbs, and beef suet * '1 his bird, it seems, lias so iiisiiiuated itself into the favour ol rcfinal gonnnands, tliat tliey pay it the ,<aine lioiiours as the "land Lama, makini; a Hac;oiit of its Kxcmm’uts, and devonrinsr them with ecstary.ROAsriMc;. 195 iiii equal quautily ; and the heart and liver, uinl an egg to bind them, pounded together, with a little pepper and salt, or with the stuffing ordered for a fillet of veal (No. 374,) or (No. 37.5,) and fill the belly of each bird with it. If roasted at a hot clear fire, they will be enough, in about thirty minutes: send up Parsley and butter in the dish under them, and some in a boat, and garnish with crisy) y:>arsley. Obs. — When jjigeons are fresh, they have their full relish; there is no bird has then a finer flavour, but it goes entirely off with a very little keeping; nor is it ever so well preserved, as by roasting. A little melted butter, may be put into the dish with them, and the gravy that runs from them will mix with it into fine sauce. Pigeons are in their greatest yierfection in Sep- tember, and there is then the most plentiful and best food for them; and their finest growth, is just when they ore full feathered. When they are in the pen-feathers, they are flabby; when they are full grown, and have flown some time, they are liard ; nt fbe jwriixl o/thdr growi/i, ■when they me at perjeetwn, and have had no time to harden, alt sorts of game and poultry are best; their juices are then perfect, and the flesh is in all its delicacy. s -2ROASTING. 196 This was the secret of Solomon, the famous ■pigeon-feeder of Turnham Green, who is cele- brated by the poet Gay, when he says, “ Tliat Ttirnliam Green, vvliicli dainty pigeons fed, I’lit feeds no more, for Solomon is dead.” Pigeons on a poor man's spit. — (No. 7!h) Fill their bellies, with parsley clean washed and chopped, the livers minced fine, grated bread and hard egg, an equal quantity of each, season it with a very little beaten mace or nut- meg, and pound all together with the yolk of an egg; tie the neck end close, so that it cannot come out; put a skewer through the legs, and have a little iron or wire roaster on purpose, with six hooks to it; on each hook hang a pigeon, fasten one end of a string to the chim- ney piece, and the other end to the iron (which is commonly called a poor man’s spit,) flour them, and baste them with butter, turn them steadily and gently, and they will roast very nicely, and be full of gravy; garnish with crisp parsley. Ohs. —This is by far the best way of dressing pigeons, as it preserves their gravy: when you roast them on a spit, much of the gravy runs197 ROASTING. out; if you stuff them and broil them whole, you cannot save the gravy so well, though tliey are very good with parsley and butter in i.he dish, or Broiled with pepper and salt, see (No. 98.) J.arks, and other small Birds.— (No. 80.) These delicate little birds, are in high season in November. When they are picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them with a leaf of red sage to every lark, between the joints of the legs; beat up the yolk of an egg, and with a feather, egg, and then sprinkle them well with bread crumbs; cut some thin slices of fat bacon, about three inches long and an inch broad ; lay the birds in a row, side Iry side, with a piece of bacon between every two larks ; spit them on a lark spit, and tie that on to a larger spit, having a slice, of bacon on both the outsides of the larks; baste them well while they are roasting and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are well covered with them. For the sauce, fry some grated bread crisp in clarified butter, see (No. 259,) and set it to drain before the fire that it may harden ; serve the crumbs under the larks when you dish them, and garnisii them with slices of lemon. s 3ROASTING. 198 Wheat Ears. — (No. 81.) These birds are dressed in the same way ai larks. Lobster. — (No. 82.) See receipt for boiling (No. 176.) We give no receipt for roasting lobster, being of opinion with Dr. King, who says, “ By roasting, that which our forefatliers boiled, And boiling, what they roasted, much is spoiled.”THE COOK’S ORACLE. FUVrNG. To clarify Drippings. — (No. 83.) Put your drippings into a clean saucepan over a clear Hre; when it is just going to boil, take it oil’, and pour it into a pan hall’ full of hot water; stir them up together, and set it in a cool place till the next day, and you will find the drippings at the top of the water as clean and white as can be. Most people put drippings into cold water; but that sets them at once, and the foul parts cannot be deposited. Obs. — Swc.et and well cleansed drippings^, ♦ ]Mi s. Mel roc, in lier Economical Cookery, page 7, tells ns, she has ascertained iVoin actual experiments, that the drippings of I’oast meat, combined with wheat flour, oatmeal, pease, or potatoc staich, will make delicious Soup, agreeahlc and savoury to the palate, and nutritive and serviceahlc to tlie stomach, and that while a joint is roastiii", that good Soup may be made from the drippiii!;s of the fat, which she says is the Essence of the Meat, as seeds are of Vegetables ; two ounces of Eat possessing more uutrimeut than eight of the lean i>art of the best buttock of beef that can be procured, and impregnates Soup with the identical taste of meat in the same proportion. See (No. ‘2.j0.)FRYING. 200 and the fat skimmings of the broth pot, will baste every thing as well as butter, except game and poultry, and should supply the place of butter for common fries, and are equal to lard, especially if you repeat the clarifying twice over. To clarify Suet, to fry with.—(No. 84.) Cut beef or mutton suet into thin slices, put it into a thick and well tinned saucepan, and set it over a very slow stove, or in an oven, till it is all melted but the skins; then strain it through a hair sieve into a clean brown pan. When quite cold, tie a paper over it and keep it for use. Hogslard is prepared in the same way. Obs. — The waste occasioned by the present fashion of feeding cattle till the fat is nearly equal to the lean, may, by good management, be in some measure prevented, by cutting oft' the superfluous suet, and preparing it as above, or by making it into puddings. Rump Steaks fried. — (No. 85.) Let the steaks be cut rather thinner than for broiling. Put some butter into an iron frying- pan, and when it is hot lay in the steaks, and keep turning them till they are done enough; (if they don’t brown, hold them down against the pan with a spoon), and lay them in a hot dish before the fire; then put a tablespoonful o(2(11 FRYING. flour into (lie fryingpan witli a quarter of a pint of hot water, a tablespoonful of ale, or small beer, that is neither bitter nor stale, a table- spoonful of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonfiil of salt, and half a teaspoonful of ground black pepper; rub and boil up together for a couple of minutes, and run the sauce through a hah' sieve over the steaks, see also (No. 356.) Mutton Chops. — (No. 85.*) .Same way. Obs. — We like this way of dressing, much better than broiling, as all the gravy is preserved, and the meat eats more tender, is more equally dressed, and more evenly browned ; it is indis- pensably necessary, that fried and broiled things should have a certain degree of brown colour, which makes the meat more relishing, and inviting to the appetite. Beef Steaks and Onions. — (No. 86.) Fry the steaks according to the directions given in the preceding receipt; lay them on a dish to keep hot; have ready some onions sliced as thin as possible, fry them brown in the same pan the steaks were fried in ; when done, take them up with a fi.sh slice, and lay them on theFRYING. -202 steaks, then finish the sauce as in the foregoing' receipt, or prepare the onion sauce as (No. 299.) N. B. See onion gravy (No. 331.) Sausages. — (No. 87.) To prevent their bursting in the fryingpan, lay them in a deep dish, pour boiling water over them, and let them lie for five miriutes; then prick them with a small fork, wipe them dry, and put them into a fryingpan, with some butter or lard, shake them about, dredge them with a little flour till they are nicely frothed, and well browned. Some over-economical Cooks insist that no butter or lard, &c. is required, their own fat being sufficient to fry them ; we have tried it, and the sausages were partially scorciied, rather than fried, and had that pye-bald appearance, that all fried things have when plenty of fat is not allowed : putting them in the boiling water, and pricking them, prevents the skins from cracking. Obs. — Poached eggs, pease-pudding, and mashed potatoes, are agreeable accompaniments. For sauce (No. 356.) N.B. The pork sausages made by Chatpel, the corner of Fountain Court in the Strand, are a delicate, and most delightful “ Bonne Bottche,”!• K Y 1 N G. ■203 1 delicious banquet for the palate, aboiindina:, with invigorating and easily digestible nutriment for the stomach. Szeeetbrpads jiiU dressecl. — (No. 88.) Parboil them; let them get cold, and then cut them in pieces, not more than three quarters of an inch thick, dip them in the yolk of an egg, then in line bread crumbs, mixed with a little pepper, salt, and very little nutmeg; put some fresh biitter into a fryingpan; when it boils, put in the sweetbreads, and fry them a tine brown. For sauce, mushroom catsup and melted butter, or anchovy sauce, or (No. 35(1), or (No. 343). Szceelbreuih plain. — (No. 89.) Parboil them, slice them as before, and fry them a delicate brown; take care to drain the fat well from them, and garnish them with slices of lemon, and sprigs of parsley nr chervil. Or, when parboiled, &c., dip them in the following batter; an ounce of Hour, an egg. a tablespoonfnl of milk, and the same of table beer, a little white pepper and salt beaten together with a wooden spoon for ten minutes : fry them a nice brown, put a little catsiqi andFRYING. '204 butter in the dish, and garnish it with fried parsley. For sauce (No. 356.) Take care to have a fresh sweetbread; for it spoils almost sooner than any thing, therefore should be parboiled as soon as it comes in. This is called blanching, or setting it. Mutton kidneys may be broiled and sent up with the sweetbreads. Teal Cutlets, — (No. 90.) <» l.et your cutlets be about half an inch thick, trim them, and flatten them with a cleaver; you may fry the.m in fresh butter, or good beef drippings; or first fry some bacon, and the fat of that melting will leave enough in the pan to fry your veal : when brown on one side, turn them and do the other ; if the fire is very fierce, they must change sides oftener. The time they will take depends on the thickness of the cutlet and the heat of the fire; half an inch thick will take about fifteen minutes. Make some Gravy by putting the trimmings into a stewpan with a little soft water, an onion, a roll of lemon peel, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme and parsley, and a bay leaf; stew over a slow fire an hour, then strain it, and put half an ounce of butler into a stewpan ; as soon as it is melted, mix with it a large teaspoonful of flour, stir it over the fire for a lew minutes, then add the gravyIKYING. 2U'> by degrees till it is all mixed, boil it up for five minutes, and strain it through a tammis sieve, and put it to the cutlets: you may add some browning, mushroom or walnut catsup, or lemon pickle, &c.; see also, sauces (No. 343) and (No. 348.) O;, After you have beaten your cutlets with a cleaver, dip them in egg beat up with a little salt, and then in fine bread crumbs; fry tliein a light brown in some clean lard ; garnish with rashers of bacon. Obs.—-Veal forcemeat or stuffing, see (Nos. 374 and 5), are a very relishing accom- paniment, fried and sent up in the form of balls or cakes, and laid round as a garnish. f^eal Cutlets fall dressed. — (No. 91.) Cut your veal into pieces a little bigger than a crown piece, chop fine, (or take a little of the dried powder of) parsley, lemon thyme (savoury or marjoram), lemon peel a little grated, nutmeg and mace, pepper and salt; rub these well together in a mortar, beat up the yolk and white of an egg together on a plate, dip the cutlets in it, and then strew the seasoning over llu'in, dip them again in the egg, and then 1FRYING. 206 strew some fine bread crumbs over them, put some lard into a cold fryingpan over a slow fire, and fry them a nice brown. Make gravy as in the last receipt. Forcemeat balls (No, 375), are sometimes added. For sauces (Nos. 354, 343, and 348). Lamb or Mu/toii Chops, — (No. 92.) Are dressed in the same way, and garnished * with crisp parsley, and slices of lemon. Poik Chops. —(No. 93.) Cut as many chops as you want, about half an inch thick; trim them neatly ; put a frying- pan on the fire, with a bit of butter; as soon as it is hot, put in your chops, turning them often till brown all over, they will be enough in fifteen minutes: take one upon a plate and try it; if done, season with pepper and salt. For Gravy, keep a tablespoonl’ul of the fat in the pan you fried the chops in, put to it two teaspoonsl'ul of flour, rub them well together over the fire ; as soon as they look a little brown, put in a wineglass of water, to season with salt, give it a boil up, and strain it through a hair .sieve into the dish, into which you are going to jnit your chops, or you■207 i li Y 1 N (1. iiuiy send them up with their own gravy in the dish. Obs.—A little powdered sage, &c., strewed over them, will give them a nice relish. See (No. 51). i^ork Cutlets full dressed. — (No. Q3.*) Trim them neatly, and fry them in fresh butter ; when nearly done, egg them, and then rover them with sage and onion chopped hne, mixed with bread crumbs and pepper and salt, or dip them in melted butter with a shallot and parsley minced fine in it, and broil them nicely brown. For sauce, a rpiarter of pint of melted butter, flavoured with mushroom catsup, and a little mustard. Ohs. — Mutton and lamb cutlets are very good the same way. I- -2 ATHK COOK’S ORACLE. BROILINC. Be^ Steaks*. — (No. 94.) Those who are nice about steaks never attempt to have them except in weather that permits tJie meat to be liung till it is tender. The best steaks are those cut from the middle of the rump, that has been killed at least four days, when they can be cut about six inches long, four inches wide, and half an inch thick, let them be beaten with a chopper, or rolling-pin, to make them tender. Take care to have a very clear brisk fire, and throw a little salt on it, to take off the sulphur, make the gridiron hot, and set it slanting, to prevent the fat from * The season for these is from the :£9th of Sept, to the 25th ot Marcii ; to ensure their being lender when out of season, stew them as in Keceipt (No. .500.)BKOILING. 209 dropping into the fire, and making a smoke. For want of these little attentions, this very common dish, which every body is supposed capable of dressing, seldom comes to table in perfection. Put a tablespoonful of Catsup and a little minced shalot into a dish before the fire ; while you broil the steak, turn it often, to keep the gravy in; it will be done in ten minutes; rub a bit of butter over it, and send it up garnished with horseradish. (No. 356) is the sauce usually made for steaks. I\/dueI/s. — (No. 95.) Cut the kidneys through the long way, score them, and broil them over a very clear fire, turning them often till they are done, which will take about ten minutes, if the fire is brisk, bay them on the dish, sprinkle them with a little salt and pepper, and rub a piece of butter over them; or frij them in butter, and make gravy for them in the pan, (after you have taken out the kidneys), by putting in a teaspoonful of flour; as soon as it looks brown, put in as much water as will make gravy for your kidneys; they take five minutes more to frv than to broil. T :iBROILING. 210 The Inside of a Sirloin of Beef. —(No. y6.) Cut out the inside of a sirloin of beef, close to the bone, in steaks nearly a quarter of an inch thick; take off all the skin, and season it with pepper and salt; then warm an ounce of butter on a plate, just enough to melt it a little, (but not to make it into a thin oil), nnx the yolk of an egg with it, dip the steaks in on both sides, and then in fine bread crumbs; lay them on a clean gridiron, over a clear slow fire; (if the fire is sharp, the bread crumbs will be burnt before the beef is done); when you turn them lay them on a dish, to catch the gravy ; when they are dressed, put them on a hot dish with their own gravy, and a spoonful of mushroom catsup. ^ Fowl or Chicken. — (No. <)7.) Pick and truss a fowl the same as for broiling, cut it open down the back, wipe the inside clean with a cloth, season it with a little white pepper and salt, and lay it on a gridiron over a clear slow fire, with the inside of the fowl towards the fire; turn it in about ten minutes, and it will take about ten minutes more to broil it till it is a fine brown. Lay it on a hot dish, pickled mushrooms, or mushroom sauce thrownBROILING. 211 over it, or melted butter flavoured with mush- room catsup or cavice; garnish with slices of lemon, and the liver and gizzard,, slit and notched, and seasoned with pepper and salt, and broiled nicely brown, and some slices of lemon. For sauce, see (No. 355.) Pigeons. — (No. 98.) Clean them well, split them down the backs, and pepper and salt them; broil them over a clear slow fire; turn them often, and put a little butter on them : when they are done, pour over them, either stewed or pickled mushrooms, and melted butter. Garnish with fried sippets; or, when the pigeons are trussed as for boiling, flat them with a cleaver, taking care not to break the skin, or the backs, or breasts; season them with pepper and salt, dip them in melted butter, and dredge them well with grated bread, then lay them on the gridiron, and turn them frequently; if your fire is not very clear, lay them on a sheet of paper well buttered, to keep them from getting smoked. I he same sauce as in the preceding receipt, •a (No. 34.3), or (348.) \'eal Cutlets (No. 521.)THE COOKES ORACLE. VEGETABLES. I’ll TEEN WAYS OF DRESSING POTATOES. (No. Although this most useful vegetable is dressed almost every day, in almost every family, it is very seldom well prepared; and for one plate of Potatoes that comes to table as it should, ten are spoiled. Be careful in your choice of potatoes; no vegetable varies so much in quality. The red- dish coloured are better than the white, but the yellowish looking ones are generally the best. Clioose them of a moderate size, free from blemishes, and fresh, and buy them in the mould; they must not be wetted till they arc cleaned to be cooked. Peel and wash them, fill the saucepanVyXJKTABLSS. 2i;3 half full of potatoes of equal size*, and put to them as much cold water as will cover them about an inch: most boiled things are spoiled by having too little water, but potatoes are com- monly spoiled by too much; they must merely be covered, and a little allowed for waste in boiling, so that they may be just covered at the finish. Set them on a moderate fire till they boil, then take them off, and set them by the side of the fire to simmer only, till they are soft enough to admit a fork, (place no dependence on the usual test of their cracking or breaking, which, if they are boiled fiast, some potatoes will do wl>en they are not half done, and the in- side is quite hard,) then pour the water from them, uncover the saucepan, and set it by the side of the fire for fifteen or twenty minutes, that their superfluous moisture may evaporate, and they will become perfectly dry and mealy. You may afterwards place a napkin, folded up to the size of the saucepan’s diameter, over the potatoes, to keep them hot and mealy till wanted. fl'his method of managing potatoes is in every • Or the small ones will be done to pieces before the larje ones are boileil enoii|;b.VEGETABLES. 214 respect superior to steaming them; they are dressed in half the time, and will retain no moisture. Obs.—There are so many different sorts, and sizes of potatoes, that it is impossible to say how long they will take doing; the best way is to try them with a fork. Moderate sized po- tatoes, will generally be enough in fifteen or twenty minutes. Potatoes boiled and broiled.—(No. 103.) Dress your potatoes as before directed, and when thoroughly cooked, put them on a gridiron oyer a very clear and brisk fire; turn tliem as they brown, till they are done all over, and send them up dry, with melted butter in a cup. Potatoes fried in slices.—(No. 104 ) Peel large potatoes, and slice them the thick ness of a two-penny piece; dry them well in a clean cloth, flour them, and fry them in lard. Take care that your lard and fryingpan arc quite clean; put it on a quick fire, watch it, and as soon as the lard boils, and is still, put in the slices of potatoe, and keep moving them till they arc crisp; take them up and lay them to drain on a sieve; send them up with a very little salt sprinkled over them.•2 1 VEGETABLES. Potatoes fried Ti'hoh.—(No. lOo.) When nearly boiled enough as per tlie first receipt, put them i)ito a stewpan with a bit ol' butter, or some nice clean beef drippings ; shake them about often (for fear of burning them,) till they are of a fine brown, and cri.sp; drain them well from the fat. It will be an elegant improvement, to the three last receipts, previous to frying or broiling the potatoes, to flour them, and then to dip them in the yolk of an egg, and then roll them in fine sifted bread crumbs, and you mav then call them potatoes full dressed. Vb mash Potatoes. — (No. 106.) See also, (No. I 1<2.) When your potatoes are boiled, drain and dry them perfectly, and rub them through a cullender, into a clean stew])an; to a pound of pf)tatoes put about half an ounce of butter, and a large tablespoonful of milk ; mix them well together, and put them by the. side of the fire to keep warm ; if you put them too near they will get a bad taste. Obs. — After Lady-day, when the potatoes ar(' getting old and spccky, this is the best wav of dressing them.216 VJtlGE'I ABLES. Mashed Potatoes uUli 0}iions. — (Nu. 107.; Prepare some boiled onions, by putting them through- a sieve, and mixing them with- potatoes. In proportioning the onions to the potatoes, you will be- guided by your wish to have more or less of their flavour. Escalloped Potatoes. — (No. 108.) Mash the potatoes as before directed ; then have some nice scollop shells, very clean, and well buttered ; put in your potatoes, make them smooth at the top, score them across with a knife, strew a few fine bread crumbs on them, and sprinkle them with a paste brush with a few drops of melted butter, and then set them in a Dutch oven; when they are browned on the top, take them carefully out of tlie shells, and brown the other side. If you have no scollop shells, put them into teacups. Roasted Potatoes.— (No. lOy.) Wash and dry your potatoes, (all of a size) and put them in a tin Dutch oven, or cheese toaster; take care not to put them too near at first, or they will get burnt on the outside before they are warmed through. Large j)0- tatoe.s will require two hours to roast them.217 VEGETABLES. N. B. This is one of the best opportunities the Baker has to rival the Cook. Roasted Potatoes luider Meat. — (No. 110.) Peel and wash large potatoes, put them on the fire in cold water, and let them boil till they are hall done; drain the water from them, and put them into an earthen dish, or small tin pan: set them under the meat that is roasting, and baste them with some of the drippings; when they are browned on one side, turn them and brown them on the other, and send them up round the meat, or in a small dish. Potatoe Balls.—(No. 111.) Mix mashed potatoes with the yolk of an egg, roll them into balls, flour them, and fry them in clean drippings. Brown them in a Dutch oven. Savoury Potatoe Balls 112.) Are made by adding a quarter of a pound of grated ham, to a pound of mashed potatoes or some sweet herbs, or chopped parsley and shallots, salt, pepper, and a little grated m.t- meg, or other spice, witi, the yolk of a cotiple of eggs, as m the last receipt.VEGETABLES. 21R Ohs. — They are an agreeable vegetable relish, and make a good supper dish. Putaloe Snow. — (No. 114.) The potatoes must be free from spots, and the whitest you can pick out; put them on in cold water, and when they begin to crack, strain the water from them, and put them into a clean stewpan by the side of the fire till they are quite dry and fall to pieces; rub them through a sieve on the dish they are to be sent up in, and do not disturb them afterwards. The Gipsies’’ Futuloe Ft/e. — (No. 115.) Peel and slice your potatoes very thin, into a pye dish; between each layer of potatoes, put a little dropped onion; three quarters of an ounce of onion is sufficient for a pound of potatoes; season it with pepper and salt, put in half a pint of water, and cut about two ounces of fresh butter into little bits, and lay them on the top ; cover it close with puli' paste. It will take about an hour and a half to bake it. .Ntvo Fointoes. —(No. 1 lf».) The best way to clean new potatoes when they are too young to peel, is to rul) themVEGETABLES. ■219 with a coarse cloth or a flannel, or scrnhbinp; brush; and proceed as in the first receipt to boil potatoes. Obs. -Some Cooks prepare sauces to ])onr over potatoes, made with butter, salt and pepper, or gravy, or melted butter and ketchup, or stew the potatoes in ale, or M’atcr seasoned with pepper and salt; or bake tiiem with herrings, mixed with layers of potatoes, sea- soned with pepper, salt, sweet herbs, vinegar, and water; or cut mutton or beef into slices, and lay them in a stewpan, and on them po- tatoes and spices, then another layer of the meat alternately, pouring in a little water, covering it up very close, and stewing slowly. Jerusalem Artichokes — (No. 117.) /Vre boiled in the same manner as potatoes, and dressed in the various ways we have just before directed for potatoes. N.B. These should be covered with a nice •vvhite sauce. (Aibhage. — (No. 118.) Pick Cabbages very carefully clean, and wash them thoroughly, and after washing, look them over carefully again ; cpiarter them if you please, if they arc very large. Put them into a sauce-VEGETABLES. 220 pan with plenty of boiling water; if any scum rises, take it off, put a large spoonful of salt into tlie saucepan, and boil them till the stalks feel tender. A young cabbage will take about twenty minutes, when full grown half an hour: see that they are well covered with water all the time, and that no smoke or dirt arises from stirring the fire. By this management, they will look as beautiful when dressed, as they did when growing. Boiled Cabbage fried. — (No. 119-) See receipt for Bubble and Squeak. Savoys — (No. 120.) Are boiled in the same manner; quarter them when you send them to table. Sprouts and young Greens. — (No. 121.) The receipt we have written for cabbages will answer as well for sprouts, only they will be boiled enough in fifteen or twenty minutes. Spillage. — (No. 122.) Spinage should be picked a leaf at a time, and washed in three or four waters; when per- fectly clean, lay it on a sieve, or cullender, toVEGETAliLES. ■221 drain the water from it. Put a large saiiecpan on the fire three parts filled with water; wlicn it boils, put a small handful of salt to it, witli the spillage, let it boil as ipiick as possilde till rpiite tender; it will be enough in about ten minutes, if boiled in plenty of water; if the spillage is a little old, give it a couple of minutes longer. When done strain it on the back of a sieve, squeeze it dry with a plate, or between two trenchers, chop it fine, and put it into a stewpan with a bit of butter and a little salt; a little cream is a great improvement. Spread it in a dish, and cut it into squares of proper size to help at table. Obs. — Some grated nutmeg, and a little lemon juice, is a favourite addition with some cooks, and is added when you stir it up in the stew- pan with the butter. Asparagus. — fjSo. 12.‘3.) Set a stewpan with plenty of water in it on the fire; sprinkle a handful of salt into it, and let it boil. Then put in your asparagus, pre- pared thus; scrape all the stalks till they are perfectly clean, throw them into the pan of cold water as you scrape them ; when they are all done, tie them up in little bundles, with bass if you can get it, or tape; siring cuts [j 3VEGETABLES. 222 them to pieces : cut off the stalks at the bottom that they may be all of a length, leaving just enough to serve as a handle for the green part; when they are tender at the stalk, which will be in about ten minutes, they are done enough. Great care must be taken to watch the exact time of their becoming tender, and take them up just at that instant, and they will have their true flavour and colour; a minute or two more boiling destroys both. While the asparagus are boiling, toast a round of a quartern loaf, about half an inch thick, brown it delicately on both sides, dip it lightly in the liquor of the asparagus, and lay it in the middle of a dish ; melt some butter, then lay in the asparagus upon the toast, with the ends of the stalks outwards. Pour no butter over them, but send it up in a boat. To the common melted butter, some cooks add a little pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of vinegar, and the yolk of a couple of eggs, beat up, and carefully mixed to keep them from curdling. Sea Kale — (No. 124.) Is tied up in bundles, and dressed exactly in the same way as asparagus.223 VEGETABLES. L'cntliflou'cr. — (No. 125.) Choose those that are close and white, trim off the outside leaves, cut the stalk off flat at the bottom, let them lie iu salt and water an hour before you boil them, put them into boiling water with a handful of salt in it, and let it boil slowly till done, which a small one will be in twelve or fifteen, a very large one in about eighteen minutes; take them up carefully with a slice. N. B. Cold caulidower, boiled so as to eat rather crisp, is frequently dressed as a salad, and a very good accompaniment it is to cold meat. /jEOco//. —(No. 126.) The great art in dressing brocoli is, that it be not overboiled, and yet boiled enough. Set a pan of clean cold water on the table, and a saucepan on the fire with plenty of water, and a handful of salt iu it; the brocoli is prepared by stripping oft' all the side shoots, leaving the top ; peel off the skin of the stalk with a knife, cut it close off at the bottom, and put them into the pan of cold water: when the water in the stewpan boils, and all the brocoli is ready, put it in, let it boil briskly till the stalks feel tender, and take it up with a slice, that you•224 VEGETABLES. may not break it; let it drain, and serve up: if some of the heads of brocoli are much bigger than the others, put them on to boil first, so that they may get all done together. Obs. — It makes a nice supper dish served upon a toast, like asparagus. The following Obs. the Editor received from such a source, he could not choose but insert them. Brocoli should be dressed thus: cut off the heads from the stalks; peel the stalks, and cook them twice, or thrice, as long as the heads, by which plan, every portion is eatable; and, indeed, the stalk is the nicer of the two. Re- member, the head or green part, is to be thrown into boiling water, to preserve the green colour; but the stalk, or white part, should be put into cold water, and simmered rather than boiled. lied Beet Roots — (No. 127 ) Are not so much used as they deserve; they are boiled exactly in the same way as parsnips, only neither scraped nor cut till after they are boiled ; a large root will take an hour and a half boiling; to l)e sent to table with salt fish, boiled beef, ike. But whoever loves red beet root, let him put it raw and unwashed into a225 VEGETABLES. Dutch-oven, before a steady fire, turning it occasionally, until its tenderness be ascertained by a fork. Its flavour is highly improved, and its deep rich red colour is excpiisite; the peel will pull ofl'readily, when it is done. Parsnips — (No. 12S.) Are to be cooked just in the same manner as carrots, only give them as much w’ater as you can; they require more or less time according to their size, therefore match them in size, and you must try them by thrusting a fork into them as they are in the water; when that goes easily through, they are done enough: from half an hour to an hour, according to their size and freshness, will boil a large parsnip. Obs. —Parsnips are sometimes sent up mashed in the same w'ay as Turnips, and most cooks cut them in half before they boil them. Carrots. — (No. 129.) Let them be well washed and brushed, not scraped; half an hour is enough for young spring carrots; grown carrots must be cut in half, will take an hour and a half; and the large Sandwich kind full two hours. When done, rub off the peels with a clean coarse cloth.VEGETABLES. 226 and slice them in two or four, according to their size. The best way to try if they are done enough, is to pierce them with a fork. Turnips. — (No. 160.) Peel off' half an inch of the stringy outside; full-grown turnips will take thirty minutes gentle boiling; (if they boil too fast, they will burst;) try them with a fork; when tender, take them up, and lay them on a sieve ten minutes, to drain the water thoroughly from them: send them up whole; do not slice them. Obs. — Young turnips should not be peeled; and, indeed, some experienced people never peel the older ones, because the rind will readily separate from the main body, after it is boiled, and the root will be less watery and higher flavoured. To Mash Turnips,—(No. 131.) When they are boiled quite tender, squeeze them as dry as possible between two trenchers, put them into a saucepan, mash them with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a cidlender, add a little bit of butter, keep stirring them till the butler is melted and well mixed with them, and they are ready for table.VEGETABLES. 227 Tiniiip Tops — (No. 132.) .Are the shoots which grow out, in the spring, of the old turnip roots. Put them into cold water an liour before they are dressed; the more water they are boiled in, the better they will look ; if boiled in a small (juantity of water, they will taste bitter; when the w'ater boils, put in a small handful of salt, and then your vegetables; if fresh and young, they will be done ill about twenty minutes; drain them on the back of a sieve. French Feans.—(No. 13 1.) Cut off the stalk end first, and then turn to the point and tear otl' the strings; let a bowl of spring water, with a little salt dissolved iu it, staiul before you, and as the beans are cleaned and stringed, throw them in: when all are done, put them on the fire, in boiling water, with some salt in it; when they have boiled fifteen or tw'enty minutes, take one out and taste it ; as soon as they are tender*, take * II you will have ihein very green, when tliev are boiled llirow lliein inslaiilly into cold water; when you wish to send them to lahle, vvarni tliein attain in a tureen of hoilinjr water. Ivegetables. 228 them up, throw them into a cullender or sieve to drain, and lay them on a plate, in a little heap, highest in the middle. To send up the beans whole is much the best method, when they are thus young, and their delicate flavour and colour are much better preserved. When a little more grown, they must be cut across in two, after stringing; and for common tables, they are to be split, and divided across; but those who are nice, never have them at such a growth as to require splitting. When they are large, they look very pretty cut into lozenges; in this case they are not split. Green Peas. — (No. 134.) Young green peas, well dressed, are one of the most delicious delicacies of the vegetable kingdom. They must be young, or no art can boil them tender; it is equally indispensable that they be fresh gathered, and cooked as soon as they are shelled, for, by being exposed to the air, they soon lose both their colour and sweetness : if you wish to feast upon peas in perfection, you must have them gathered the same day they are dressed, and put on to boil within hall an hour after they are shelled. Pass them through a riddle, i. c. a coarse sieve, which229 VEGETABLES. is made for the purpose of separating them. This precaution is necessary, for large and small peas cannot be boiled together, as, of course, the former will take more time than the latter. For a peck of peas, set on a saucepan with a gallon of water in it; when it boils, put in your peas with a tablespoonful of salt, and two teaspoonsful of lump sugar; kcej) them boiling quick from twenty to thirty minutes, according to their age and size; the best way to judge of their being done enough, and indeed, the only way to make sure of cooking them to, and not beyond tlie point of perfection, or, as the pea eaters say of “ boiling them to a bubble,” is to take some out with your spoon and taste them. When they are enough, drain them on a hair sieve, put them into a pye dish, divide some butter into small bits, and lay them on the peas; put another dish over them, and turn them over; this will melt the butter through them, and is by far the best way of buttering peas. Obs.— You may boil a few sprigs of mint in a saucepan by themselves, and garnish your dish of peas with them; it is more common to boil some mint with the peas; and when old you may boil them in water slightly sugared; sec Fta Powder (No. 458.) XVEGETABLES. 230 N. B. A peck of young peas will not yield more than enough for three hearty pea-eaters. Cucumber Stewed. — (No. 135.) Peel and cut your cucumbers into slices nearly a quarter of an inch thick; take out the seeds, and lay them on a cloth to drain off the water; and when they are dry, flour and fry them in fresh butter; let the butter be quite hot before you put in the cucumbers ; fry them till they are a fine brown, then take them out with an egg slice, and lay them on a sieve to drain the fat from them: fry some sliced onions with them till they are a delicate light brown colour, lay them on a sieve to drain the fat, and then put them into a stewpan, with as much gravy as will cover them; stew slowly till they are ten- der; which will take about an hour: take out the cucumbers with a slice, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, give it a boil up, season it with pep))er and salt, and put the cucumber in to warm, and it is ready. The above rubbed through a tammy, or fine sieve, will then be entitled to the appellation of “ CUCUMBER sauce.” Obs.—The relish of this dish is sometimes augmented by tlie addition of bay leaves, an-VEUETA BEES. •231 chovies, catsup, wine, ale, and the savoury spices. This is a very favourite sauce with iamb or mutton cutlets, stewed runi|) steaks, &e. &c. Artichokes. — (No. 1 ,‘K).) Put them into cold water, wasli them well, then put them into plenty of boiling- water, with a handful of salt, and let them boll g-ently till they are tender, which will take ai^ hour and a half, or two hours ; trim them and drain them on a sieve; and send up melted butter with them. Slezced Onions.—(No. 137.) The large Portugal onions are the best for this purpose ; take oH' the coats of half a dozen ot these, taking care not to cut off the tops or tails too near, or the onions will go to pieces; put them into a stewpan broad enough to hold them without laying them a top of one another- just cover them with good broth; as soon as it’ bods last, add to them half an ounce of lutnn sugar, put them over a very slow fire, so that they only simmer two hours, till the broth is ref need to a glaze ; when you dish them, turn 2VEGETABLES. 232 them upside down; pour the sauce over them. This is a very elegant preparation of onions. Roasted Onions. — (No. 138.) They are done best in a Dutch oven, turning them occasionally, that they may be done equally on all sides. Ragout onions, see (No. 299.)X .4 THi: COOK’S ORACI.E. FISH. Turbot to Boil. — (No. 140.) riiis excellent Fish is in season the greatest part of the Summer, and when good, its meat is at once firm and tender, and abounds with the richest o-elatinous nutriment. Being drawn, and washed clean, if it he ([uite fresh, by rubbing it lightly over with salt, and hanging it up in a cool place, you may in moderate weather preserve it for a couple of days in high perfection. An hour or two before you want to dress it, soak it in spring water with some salt in it, then score the skin across the thickest part of the back; (this is to prevent it breaking on the breast, which will happen from the fish swelling, and cracking the skin, if this precaution is not used:) put a large handful of salt into the water, and when it boils, lay your fish on a fish strainer, put it in, and set the kettle on the side of the fire, to boil as gently as possible for about twenty minutes, (if it boils fast, the fish will break to pieces;) supposing it a midilling size234 FISH. fish, and to weigh eight or nine pounds. Rub a little of the inside coral spawn of the lobster, through a hair sieve, without butter; and when the turbot is dished, sprinkle the spawn over it. Garnish the dish with sprigs of curled parsley, sliced lemon, and finely scraped horseradish, anchovy paste (No. 434,) and, if you like to send it to table in full dress, surround it with some nicely fried smelts, or oystei’s, see (No. 173,) and (No. 183.*) Send up lobster sauce, see receipt (No. 284,) and two boats of it, if it is for a large party. Dutch Method of Boiling Turbot.—(No. 141.) In boiling a large turbot, four or five handfuls of salt are put into the water it is to be boiled in; which strong brine makes the fish crimp and savoury; the thick parts of the fish are cut, or scored, to admit the salt water. The salt must be put into cold water; but before the fish is put in, the water must boil strongly. A large turbot will be well boiled in half an hour. (From Mr. Twiss the traveller.) Turbot to Fry. — (No. 142.) Clean a small turbot well, and dry it in a cloth, beat an egg on a plate, wash the fish all over with the egg, then cover it with fine bread crumbs, that have been rubbed through a hair235 FISH. sieve; have some clean lard, or dripping, in an iron fryingpan, over a hot fire; when it has done talking, and is quite still, put the fish in ; in about four minutes turn it, and fry it on the other side ; when done, lay it on a hair sieve, to drain the fat from it. Lobster or shrimp sauce. A Brill—143.) Is dressed the same way as a turbot. Soles to Boil. — (No. 144.) Wash and clean your soles well; put them into a fish-kettle, with a handful of salt, and as much boiling water as will cover them; and set them on the side of the fire to boil gently about five minutes, according to their size, will be long enough, unless they be very large. Send them up on a fish-drainer garnished with sprigs of parsley. Obs. — Slices of lemon are a universally ac- ceptable garnish, with either fried or broiled fish; a few sprigs of crisp parsley may be added, if you wish to make it look very smart; and parsley, or fennel and butter, are excellent sauce, see (No. 261) and (No. 265,) or Chervil sauce (No. 264.)236 FISH. N. B, Boiled soles are very good, dressed like eels, Wiggy’s way (No. 164.) Soles lo Fry. — (No. 145.) Be sure your soles are quite fresh, or all the good cooks in the world cannot make them either look or eat well. An hour before you intend to dress them, wash them thoroughly, and wrap them in a clean cloth, to make them perfectly dry, or the bread crumbs will not stick to them. Beat the yolk and white of an egg well together, on a plate, with a fork; flour your fish to absorb any moisture that may re- main, and wipe it off’ with a clean cloth: dip them in the egg on both sides all over; or, what is better, egg them with a paste-brush, rub ^some stale bread through a cullender, or (if you wish them to look most delicate and highly finished) hair sieve, strew it all over the fish, so that it covers every part, and take up the fish by the head, and shake off the loose crumbs. The sole is now ready for the fryingpan. Put a pint or more of fresh sweet olive oil, or a pound of lard or beef suet, {the fat ought to * The fat will do two or three times, if strained through a Imir sieve, and |>iit by; if you do not find it l uongli, pul a little fresh to it.nsii. 237 {•over the Jish; what we here order, is for soles about nine inches long-, if above the middle size, cut them into pieces the proper size to help at table; they are much easier managed iu the Frying-pan, and require less Fat,) into a frying- pan, over a sharp and clear tire ; watch it, skim it, and when it boils'*, i.c. when it has done bubbling, and is still, and the smoke just begins to rise from the surface, put in the fish : if the fat is not c.itremdy hot, it is impossible to fry tish of a good colour, or to make them firm and crisp, (read Obs. on Frying, in the 3d Chapter of the Rudiments of Cookery.) The best way to ascertain the heat of the fat, is to try it with a bit of bread as bigas a nut; and if it is quite hot enough, the bread will brown immediately. Put in the fish, and it will be crisp and brown on the side ne.xt the fire, in about four or five minutes; to turn it, slick a two-pronged fork near the head, and support the tail with a fish- slice, and fry the other side: one sole is enough to put in at a time, except the pan is very large, and you have plenty of fat. When your lish are fried, lay tliem on a large wire sieve, placed slanting, and near enough the fire to keep them ’ Tills rcniiiircs a heat of upwarils of 600 degrees <U Falireiilieit's tlierinouieter —/n/iHg, is in fact bnUinii, ill Jilt, or oil.FlSlt. 238 warm, till the fat is thoroughly drained from them; this will take ten or fifteen minutes*. IVhen soles are fried, they rvill keep very good in a dry place for three or four days, and will eat almost as well as when fresh dressed, if you warm them in a Dutch-oven, letting them heat very gradually, by putting it some distance from the fire, or in good gravy, as Eels Wiggy’s way (No. 164.) 06s.—Thei’e are several general rules in this receipt which apply to all fried fish; we have been very particular and minute in our direc- tions ; for, although a fried sole is a very frequent and favourite dish, it is very seldom brought to table in perfectionf- Batter will occasionally supply the place of egg; and Oatmeal, or Flour, or Biscuit powder, of bread crumbs ; the latter is sold at Russell’s excellent * If you arc in iiaste, lay tlic sole on a clean .soft cloth, cover it with it, and gently press it upon the fish to suck up the fat from its surface. t The very inditt'erent manner in which the operation of frying fiih is usually performed, we suppose pro- duced the following jcH d’esprit, which appeared a few months since in that ably conducted daily registei', “ The Morning Chronicle.” “ llic Kiii;;’s Urncli Uopoit.s liavo cookM iiji :oi oild An action foi- ilaniam’s, i-Vi/ versus J V.Oi. Rill sure, if for il;nn:ij»os nclioii conlfi lie, ll ct'iiiiiMl} nuisl lia\i’ liccii I'is/t ngrtiiMt i'fy."FISH. <2.'{9 biscuit shop, nearly opposite Villicrs Street in the Strand. So/es to Stcic. — (No. 146.) These are done the same as eels, Wiirpy’s way, in good gravy. See (No. 164.) Fillets of Soles Fried. — (N o. 147-) Take the fillets of a pair of good soles, trim them neatly, and wipe them on a dry cloth; beat the yolk and white of an egg together on a plate for five minutes, dip the fillets into the egg, and then into fine stale bread crumbs, that have been rubbed through a hair sieve. Have some clean lard hot in an iron fryingpan; put in the fillets and fry them of a fine brown colour; lay them on a hair sieve as you do them, and keep them hot before the fire till all are ready. Fillets of Soles, Hliite —(No. 148.) Take off the fillets, trim them, and cut them in two; butter a clean earthen dish or pan, lay the fillets in it, and butter a paper cut to the size of the dish, and lay it close to the fillets, set it in a cool oven, or over a very slow fire, for about fifteen or twenty minutes; take them ti[), and dry them on a sheet of clean paper, m240 FISH. on a clean napkin: dish them up on a hot dish, and pour a little good white sauce over them. Cod Boiled. — (No. 149.) Clean and wash your fish, and rub a little salt in the inside of it; (if the weather is very cold, a large cod is always the better for being kept a day;) put plenty of water in your fish- kettle, so that the fish may be well covered; put in a handful of salt: and when it is dis- solved, put in your fish; a very small fish will require from twenty to thirty minutes, a very large one, nearly an hour; drain it on the fish plate ; dish it with garnish of the roe, liver, chitterling, anchovy paste, &c.; or large native OYSTERS, dipped in batter, or egged and bread crumbed, and fried a li?ht brown : for ovster sauce, see (No. 278.) Salt Fish Boiled. — (No. 150.) Salted fish requires soaking, according to the time it has been in salt; that Avhich is hard and dry, requires two nights’ soaking; the in- termediate day, lay it on a stone floor; for the barrelled cod, less time will do; and for the best Dogger Bank split fish, which has not been241 FISH. more than a fortnight or three weeks in salt, less time will be needful. Put it on in cold water. For egg sauce, see (No. 267,) and to boil parsnips (No. 128.) Garnish your salt fish with the yolks of a couple of eggs, cut into (juarters. N. B. Mr. Tucker’s observations on cod-fisli after (No. 182.) Salted fish difi’ers in quality, quite as much as it does in price. Slices of Cod Boiled. — (No. 151.) Lay the slice of fish at the bottom of a fish- kettle, with as much cold spring water as will cover it, and a handful of salt; set it on a quick fire, and when it boils, set it on one side of the fire to boil gently, for ten minutes, or a quarter of an hour, according to the size of the fish. Garnish with a slice of the liver on one side, and chitterlings on the other. Oyster sauce (No. 278,) and plain butter. Ohs.—Slices of cod are very good, fried like soles (No. 145.) Codlings Broiled. — (No. 152.) Wash them well, dry them in a cloth, and then flour them all over, or egg and bread crumli them; lay them on a clean gridiron, YFISH. '242 (rubbed with chalk to prevent the fish from sticking) over a slow and clear fire; when they are done on one side, turn them gently; they will take about twenty minutes, or half an hour. Anchovy sauce (No. 270.) Whitings Fried. — (No. 153.) Skin them, and fasten their tails to their mouths; dip them in egg, and then in bread crumbs, and fry them in hot lard; lay them in the pan with their backs towards the fire, and let the fat boil over them, but do not turn them, for they are more liable to break than any fish. Obs.—When whitings are very scarce and dear, the fishmongers can skin and truss young codlings, so that you can hardly tell the differ- ence. A codling has a beard under its mouth, which a whiting has not: this distinguishing mark is sometimes cut off; however, if you look, you will soon see the mark where the beard was, and thus discover if it is a whiting, or a shaved codling. Skate Fried. — (No 154.) After you have cleaned the fish, divide it into fillets, dry them on a clean cloth; beat the yolk and white of an egg together oii aFISH. •243 plate for five minutes, dip the fish in this, and then in fine bread crumbs; fry it in hot lard or drippings till it is of a beautiful brown colour; lay it on a hair sieve to drain; garnish with crisp parsley (No. 318.) Plaice or Flounders Fried. — (No. 165.) Flounders are perhaps the most difficult fish to fry nicely. Clean them well, and wipe them on a dry cloth to absorb all the water from them; flour them and fry them in hot lard, and send them up with plain butter, or anchovy .sauce in a boat. Hater Souchj/.—(No. 156.) This, 1 believe, is a Dutch dish, and is made with several small fish, such as flounders, plaice, whiting, gudgeons, eels, or perch. These must be very fresh, and very clean, for what they are boiled in is sent up with them; cut notches in your fish and throw them into fresh spring water; (this is what is called crimping;) put them into a stewpan with as much water as you think will fill the dish, with some parsley leaves and parsley roots, a glass of white wine, and a tablcspooiiful of vinegar, and as much salt as you would for broth; take care to skim244 FISH. it well when it boils; when your fish is done enough, send it up in a deep dish, with some slices of bread and butter on a plate, and carrots and turnips cut into small dice. Haddocks Boiled. — (No. 157.) Wash it well, and put it on to boil in as much hot water as will cover it, with plenty of salt in it; a haddock of three pounds will take twenty minutes. Tench or Carp to Stew. — (No. 158.) When your fish has been properly washed, lay it in a fish kettle, with a pint of port wine and a quart of good gravy; a bay leaf, a few leaves of marjoram or basil, a carrot, a large onion, a head of celery, a dozen berries of black- pepper, the same of allspice, a few cloves, or a bit of mace, and an ounce of lean ham; cover the fish kettle close, and let it stew gently for half an hour; take the fish up, lay it on a hot dish, and thicken the liquor that it was boiled in with Hour; season''with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of Essence of Anchovy, same of Mushroom Catsup, and half the quantity of \ inegar; when it has boiled ten minutes, strain it through a tammis into a clean stewpan, make it very hot, and pour it over theFIS . 245 lisli; if there is more sauce than the dish will hold, send the rest up in a boat. Obs.—These fish are very nice plain boiled, with parsley and butter for sauce, and some Cooks dredge them with Hour, and fry them a light brown before they put them on to stew. Perch Fried.—159-) Wash the fish well, and wipe them on a dry cloth. Hour them lightly all over, and fry them ten minutes in hot lard or drippings; when they are fried, lay them on a hair sieve to drain; send them up on a hot dish, garnished with sprigs of green parsley. Anchovy sauce. Perch Boiled. — (No. iGO.) Clean them carefully, and put them in a fish kettle, with as much cold spring water as will cover them, with a handful of salt; set them on a quick fire till they boil; when they boil, set them on one side to boil gently for ten mi- nutes. Salmon Pickled. — (No. 161.) Cut a salmon into pieces and put it into a fish kettle, with a large handful of salt, and cold spring water enough to cover it; when it boils Y 3246 FISH. set it on one side of the fire to boil gently half an hour; when it is enough, dry it on a clean cloth. Put the top of the salmon liquor into a stew- pan, to which add the same quantity of white wine vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, the same of allspice, and two bay leaves, set it on the fire to boil ten minutes; skim it well; take it off the fire, and when it is cold, pour it over the fish and tie it down; in three days it may be turned, and in a week it will be fit for eating, and will remain so for several months. Garnish with sprigs of fennel. Obs.—This is in the finest condition when fresh salmon is most plentiful about Mid- summer; the season for it is from Febmary to September*. Salmon Boiled. — (No. 162.J Put on a fish kettle, with as much spring water as will cover the salmon you are going to dress. When the water boils, put in a handful of salt, take off the scum, if any rises, have the * Tlie three marks of the goodness of pickled salmon are, 1st. The brightness of the scales, and their sticking fast to the skin. 2dly, The firmness of the flesh: and 3dly, Its fine pale red rose colour.FISH. 247 fish well washed, put it in, and let it hoil a quarter of an hour to a pound of fish. Salmon Broiled.— (No. l63.) Clean the salmon well, and cut it into slices three inches thick, dry it thoroughly in a clean cloth, and rub it all over with sweet oil, or thick melted butter, and sprinkle a little salt over it ; put your o-ricliron over a clear fire, at some distance ; when it is hot, wipe it clean, and rub it with sweet oil or lai'd; lay the salmon on, and when it is done on one side, turn it gently and broil the other side. Anchovy sauce. Eels* Steiced JViggi/'s rcnij.— (No. 16'4.) Take two pounds of fine silvcr f eels; the best size are. those that are a half-crown piece in circumference, quite fresii, full of life, and as “ brisk as an eelsuch as have been kejit out of water till they can scarce stir, are good for * .Small .Soles, Turbots, Ilrills, &c. are excellent dressed the same way. t The yellow eels are apt to taste muddy; the white- ness of the belly of the fish, is not Ihe only iiiaik to know the best; the risht colour of the hack is a very bright coppery hue; the olive coloured are inferior; and those tending to a green are worse.248 FISH. nothing. Gut them, and rub them with salt till the slime is cleaned from them, wash them in three different waters, and divide them into pieces about four inches long: (some cooks season them with salt, and beaten mace or nutmeg, and dredge them with a little flour to dry them, and then egg and bread crumb them; and fry them in drippings till they are brown; and lay them to dry on a hair sieve.) Have ready a pint of good beef gravy (No. 329); (it must be quite cold when you put the eels into it, or the skin of the eels will crack, and the beauty of this dish consists in sending them up whole;) set them on a slow fire till they boil, then put them by the side of the fire; to simmer very gently for about a quarter of an hour, according to the size of the eels; watch them that they are not done too much; take them carefully out of the stewpan with a fish slice, so as not to bniise their skins, lay them on a dish about two inches deep; and if the sauce is not as thick as rich cream, mix a tablespoonful of flour with it, and put in also two tablespoonsful of port wine, and one of mushroom catsup, stir it into the sauce by degrees, and strain it over the fisli through a tammis or sieve. 06s. — To Kill eels instantli/, without the horrid torture of cutting and skinning them alive, pierce249 FISH. the spinal marrow, close to the back part of tlie skull, with a sharp pointed skewer: if this be done in the right place, all motion will instantly cease. To fry Eels.— (No. l()5.) Skin and gut them, and wash them well in cold water, cut them in pieces four inches long, season them with pepper and salt, beat an egg well on a plate, dip them in the egg, and then in fine bread crumbs; fry them in fresh clean lard, drain them well from the fat, garnish with crisp parsley; for sauce, plain melted butter, sharpened with lemon juice. Spilclicocked Eels.—(No. lG6.) This the French cooks call the English way of dressing eels, and thougli not of their own invention, they frequently send it up to the best tables. Take two middling-sized fine silver eels, leaving the skin on, cut off the heads, slit them on the belly side, and take out tiie bone and guts, and wash and wipe them nicely, and then cut them into jiieces about three inches long, and wipe them quite dry, put two ounces of butter into a stewpan with a little minced tFISH. 230 parsley, thyme, sage, pepper, and salt, and a very little chopped shallot; set the stewpan over the fire; when the butter is melted, stir the ingredients together, and take it off the fire, mix the yolks of two eggs with them, and dip the eel in, a piece at a time, and then roll them in bread crumbs, making as much stick to them as you can; then rub a gridiron with a bit of suet, set it high over a very clear fire, and broil your eels of a fine crisp brown ; dish them with crisp parsley, and send up plain butter in a boat, and anchovy and butter. Ohs. — We like them better with the skin off'; it is very apt to offend delicate stomachs. Mackarel Boiled.—(No. l67.) This fish loses its hfe as soon as it leaves the sea, and the fresher it is the better. They are very tender, and the less you handle them the better. Wash and clean them thoroughly, put them into cold water with a handfid of salt in it; be careful not to let them boil fast; a small mackarel will be enough in a quarter of an hour, which you will discover by their beginning to split at the tail ; do not let them stand in the water after they are done, being so delicate that the heat of the water will break them. This fish rarely appears at table in perfection ; either theFISH. •251 niackarel is boiled too much, or the roe too little. The best way is to open a slit opposite the middle of the roe; this will allow the water access, and the roe will then be done as soon as the fish, which it seldom is otherwise; some sagacious gourmands insist upon it they must be taken out and boiled separately. For sauce, see (No. 263,) &c. Machorel Soused.—(No. 168.) After boiling them as above directed, put into the liquor they were boiled in a few pepper- corns, some salt, and half as mucli vinegar, boil up together, and when the mackarel are cold, pour this over them. There must be enough of it to cover them completely. They will be good in two days, and keep so a fortnight. Send them to table garnished with sprigs of fennel. Mackarel Ihoi/ed. — (No. iGy.) Clean a fine large mackarel, wipe it on a dry cloth, and cut a long slit down the back ; fill it with parsley and fennel, equal quantities of each minced fine, season it with pepper and salt and a little butter, oil it on both sides, and lav It on a clean gridiron (the bars of which you fiave chalked) over a very clear slow fire ; when252 FISH. it is done on one side turn it, be careful that it does not burn ; send it up with fennel sauce in a boat, or plain butter with mushroom catsup or soy in it. Mdckarel Baked. —(No. 170.) Cut off their heads, open them, and take out the roes, and clean them thoroughly, rub them on the inside with a little pepper and salt, put the roes in again, season them (with a mixture of powdered allspice, black pepper and salt, well rubbed together) on both sides, and lay them close in a baking pan, lay a couple of bay leaves on the top, cover them with equal quan- tities of cold vinegar and water, tie them down with strong white paper doubled, and bake them for an hour in a slow oven. They will keep for a fortnight. JUackarel Pickled.—-(No. 171-) Procure them as fresh as possible, split them open, take off the heads, and trim off all the thin ])art of the belly, put them into salt and water lor one hour, drain and wipe your fish, and put them into jars or casks, with the fol- lowing preparation. Take salt and bay salt, one pound each, saltpetre and lump sugar, twoFisn. ■2^3 ounces each, white pepper, half an ounce, and cardanmm seeds, one drachm; grind and pound the spices and salt well together, put the lish into jars or casks, with a layer of the prepa- lation at the bottom, then a layer of mackarel with the skin side downwards; so continue al- ternately till the cask or jar is full ; press it down and cover it close, fn six months they will be fine, and fit for use, and will keep for a couple of years, or more, in prime condition, and the flavour will be delicious. Ih oiled Sprats. — (No. J70.*) Have a piece of pointed iron wire as thick as packthread, and as long as your gridiron is broad ; run this through the head of your sprats spiinkle a little Hour and salt over them put your gridiron over a clear quick fire, turn them in about a couple of minutes; when the other side is brown, draw out the wire, and send up the fish with melted butter in a cup. Herrings Broiled.—■(No. 17J.*) Wasl, then, ,™ll, a„,l tl,e„ dry then, with „ . ..Ill, itet wall Honr. (cl,all. II,a llie sn.l,,-,,,, |,revc,„ ,|,e dsl, sticking ii • » slow fi,v till il.ev .,reFISH. 254 well done. Send up good melted butter ui a boat. Herrings Soused. — (No. 172.) Cut otF the heads of two dozen fine fresh herrings, open and wash them very clean, season them with salt, allspice, and black pepper, put them into a pot, and cover them with white wine vinegar and water, equal parts of each, tie the pot up close, and set it on a slow oven to bake for two hours. They will keep a month or six weeks. Smelts Fried.—(No. 17.3.) Clean and dry them thoroughly in a cloth, beat an egg on a plate, and dip them in it, then in fine bread crumbs that have been rubbed through a sieve; fry them in clean lard; as soon as the lard boils and is still, put in the fish. It will take about five minutes to give them a fine gold colour. Drain them on a hair sieve. When quite dried, send them up on a hot dish, with shrimp sauce in a boat. Fick/ed S/irimps, the American uui/. (No. 174.) Pick the finest shrimps, and pul them intoFIS II . •2.5.5 vvlute wiiit.' vinegar with some salt in it; put tliem into wide-mouthed liottles. Potted Shrimps or Prawns. — (No. 175.) Wlien yon have picked them, powder them with a little beaten mace, or grated nutmeg, or white pepper and salt, add a little cold butter, and pound all well together in a marble mortar till It IS the consistence of paste. Put it into pots covered with clarified butter, and cover them over with wetted bladder. Lobster.—(No. 17(>.) Buy these alive, for those who sell them sometimes keep them too long before they boil them, and they then have not half their flavour. Choose those that are full of motion, which is the index of their freshness. The heaviest and those of a middle size are generally the best. Never take them when the shell is encrusted, which is a sign they are old. The male lobster is preferred to cat, and the female on account of her eggs to make sauce of. The female lobster is distinguished by having a broader tail than the male, and less claws. Set on a pot of water nith a talilespoonful of salt in it, having tied256 FISH. the tail of the lobster fast to the body ; when the water boils put it in, and, if very large, keep it boiling briskly for half an hour; wipe all the skum olTit, and set it by till it is cold, then rub the shell with a very little butter or sweet oil, to make it shine; break off the great claw's, crack them carefully in each joint, so that they may not be shattered, and yet come to pieces easily, cut the tail down the middle, and send up the body whole. Obs. — The Chichester Lobsters are usually watery, owing to the obstinacy of the Fishermen, Avho will not give up the old custom of pegging the claws, instead of tying them, thus fretting the fish with pain; although twopence per fish more has been offered to them to leave off this cruel and impolitic system. These Jish come in about April, and continue plentiful till the Oyster season begins. Crab.— (^Jo. 177-) The above olrservations apply to crabs, which should neither be too small nor too large. The best size are those which measure from eight to ten inches across tlie shoulders. Crabs make their appearance and disappearance about the same time as Lobsters. The Cromer 0 J2.57 nsii. Crabs are most estee7ne<l, but mtmbers are brought from the Isle of Wight. Potted Ijobster.— (No. 17S.) Select fine hen lobsters when full of spawn, boil tliem thoroughly, pick out all the eatable parts, and pound them in a mortar, adding to them by degrees finely-pounded mace, black pepper, salt, and a little clarified butter. When the whole is well mixed, and beat to the con- sistence of paste, press it down hard in a pre- serving-pot, pour clarified butter over it, and keep it close covered. Obs.—Some pot Lobster without pounding the meat, and only cut it or pidl it into such pieces as if it was prepared for sauce; if you intend it as store, to make lobster sauce with, this is the best way to do it—but if for sand- wiches, &c. the above is the best receipt, and will keej) much better. hohster Cake. — (No, 179-) Pick the meat out of a couple of lobsters, let one of them be a hen, (on account of the eggs,) mince and pound it in a mortar, with two boned, washed, beheaded and betailed an- chovies, half an ounce of butter, the yolks of X 3258 FISH. three eggs, a teacupful of finely grated stale bread, and a little beaten mace. Furnish a preserving pot with sheets of fat bacon, put in the mixture, cover it with bacon, and bake it for an hour and a half. Let it remain till cold. When you wish to get it out, put the mould in warm water a few minutes, and it will come out. Take away the bacon. Send up the cake gar- nished with green parsley, &c. hohster Pudding. — (No. 180.) Pick all tlie meat out of a hen lobster, and pound it in, a mortar with a handful of bread crumbs, two yolks of eggs, and two ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt, beat the whole well together, put in a basin or mould to boil an hour. Obs.—The Sauce for the above, is the spawn of the lobster pounded in a mortar, with a little butter and half a tablespoonful of water. Mix it with melted butter, and pour it over the pudding, It should look quite red, and cover the bottom of the dish. OYSTERS. —(J^o. 181.) Tlie common* Colchester and Feversliam * Those are called Coinnion oysters ^^llich arc picked•259 FISH, oysters are orought to market on the 5th of August; the Milton, or as they are commonly called, the melting natives*, do not come till the beginning of October, continue in season till the 12th of May, and reach the meridian of their perfection about Christmas. Some piscivorous Gourwaiuls think that oysters are not best when rpiite fresh from the beds; the flavour they have is too brackish and harsh, and is much ameliorated by giving them a feed, by covering them with clean water, with a pint of salt to about two gallons; (nothing else, no oatmeal, nor any other trumpery;) this will cleanse them from the mud and sand, &c. of the bed ; after they have Iain in it twelve hours, change it for fresh salt and water, and in twelve hours more, they will lie in prime order for the mouth, and remain so two or three days; at up on tlie Fri'iicli coast, and laiil in tlie Colcliester beds. Tlu'.se are never so line and fat as the Natives, and never recover the sliock their feeliiii;s receive, from being transported from their native place; tljese delicate little creatures are a.s excpiisite in their own taste, as they are to the taste of others. •* Those oysters arc thus called, that arc born as well as bred and fed in this country, and are mostly spit in the Burnham and Mersey rivers; they do not come to their lincsl condition till they arc near four years old.FISH. 260 the time of high water, you may see them open their shells, in expectation of receiving their usual food. This process of feeding oysters, is only employed when a great many come up together in tlieir dirt, &c. The real Colchester, or Pyfleet barrelled oysters, that are packed at tlie beds, are better without being put in water; they are carefully and tightly packed, and must not be disturbed till wanted for table; these, in moderate weather, will keep good for a week, or ten days. If an oyster opens his mouth in the barrel, he dies immediately. To preserve the lives of Barrelled Oysters, put a heavy weight on the wooden top of the barrel, which is to be placed on the surface of the oysters. This is to be effected by removing the first hoop, the staves will then spread and stand erect, making a wide opening for the head of the barrel to fall down closely on the remaining fish, keeping them close together. Obs.—Common people are indifferent about the manner of opening oysters, and the time of eating them after they are opened; nothing, however, is more important, in the enlightened eyes of the experienced oyster eater. Those who wish to enjoy this delicious resto- rative in its utmost perfection, must eat it theI'ISII. ■26! momait it is opened, with its own ^ravy in the under shell; if not eaten while absolutely alive, its flavour and spirit is lost. The true lover of an Oyster, will have more regard for the feelings of his little favourite, than to abandon it to the mercy of a bungling operator, but w'ill always open it himself, and contrive to detach the fish from the shell so dexterously, that the oyster is hardly conscious he has been ejected from his lodging, till he feels the teeth of the piscivorous gourmand tickling him to death. N. B. Shell fish ha\’e long held a very high rank in the catalogue of easily digestible and speedily restorative foods ; of these the Oyster certainly deserves the best character, but, we think it has acquired rather more reputation for these qualities than it deserves ; we believe a well dressed chop or cutlet will invigorate the lieart in a much higher ratio ; to support strength, there is nothing equal to animal food; moreover, when kept till properly tender, none w'ill give the digestive organs less trouble. Scolloped Oi/slers. — (No. 182.) Parboil twenty-four Oysters in as much water as will just cover them, strain the liquor, and add to it about an ounce of fresh butter, a table-FISH. ‘262 spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of ground black pepper, and a roll of the rind of a lemon. Beard and ■wash the oysters, and let them stew slowly for a few minutes in the above liquor, put them into scollop shells, with a little of the liquor in each, and cover them with some fine bread crumbs, put little bits of butter on the top, and bake and brown them in a Dutch oven. N. B. Small scollop shells, that just hold enough to give to one person, are the most convenient. Stewed O^steis. — (No. 182.*) Large oysters will do for stewing, and by some are preferred for this purpose ; but we rather love the plump, juicy, and delicious Milton; stew a couple of dozen of these, in a saucepan with their own liquor, for about five minutes. When they are coming to a boil, take them up and beard them, and strain the liquor through a tarn mis sieve, and lay the oysters on a dish. Put a bit of butter, as big as an egg, into a stewpan ; when it is melted, put .to it as much flour as will dry it up, the liquor of the oysters and the beards, and three tablespooiisful263 FISH. ol milk or cream, and a blade of bruised mace, and a little white pepper and salt; let it boil up for a couple of minutes, then take it off the fire, put in the oysters, and let them get warm ; (they must not themselves be boiled, or they will become hard;) line the bottom and sides of a hash dish witli bread sippets, and pour your oysters and sauce into it. See Obs. to Receipt (No. 278.) Glisters fried. — (No. 183. *) Save the liquor of twenty-four oysters, add to it some rich gravy, as a sauce for the oysters, after they have been dipped in butter singly, and fried of a delicate brown colour. For the following observations on fish, tlie public are indebted to Mr. William Tuckek, Fishmonger, Great Russel Street, Bloomsburv. “ Biu, “ Oci. 1816. “ In speaking of the different seasons offish, I do not mean to say that you cannot get good or bad, except at the times I have mentioned, as they frequently will vary; for instance, llien- Jl264 FISH. may be a good cod in the midst of summer, or a good turbot in the midst of winter; and I have only pointed out the time when they are generally so. “ There is no article so fluctuating in price as fish, the London market being supplied prin- cipally by water carriage, from all parts of the coast, the wind cannot be fair for all; the con- sequence then is, frequently a great abundance of some sorts, and none, or little, of many others. A great many persons send their ser- vants to market to get, perhaps, a turbot, or cod’s head and shoulders; it very likely happens those articles are scarce and extravagant: the servants have no other order, or perhaps will not take the trouble to get other orders, but order a turbot at 30s. or 40s., whereas they might have as good a dish of any other sort for half the money. In this case the tradesman is frequently condemned as an extravagant fellow, when, perhaps, he gets nothing by selling it. I am therefore convinced that it is people’s own fault that they have fish at such an extravagant ])rice ; if masters or mistresses were to go to market themselves, if one sort was dear, tliey could have another; or, if nor convenient to go themselves, dcsin the Jish-FISH. 265 monger to send a handsome dish, the most seasonable and reasonable, for so many persons ; and if that tradesman did not nse them well, he is not de- serving of their custom.” “ Cod generally comes into good season in October, when, if the weather is cold, it cats as fine as at any time in the year; towards the latter end of January, and February, and part of March, they are mostly poor, but the latter end of March, April, and May, they are gene- rally particularly fine, liaving shot their spawn, they come in fine order. J'hc Dogger-Bank cod are the most esteemed, as tliey generally cut in large fine flakes; the north country cod, that is caught oflP the Orkney Isles, are generally very stringy, or what is commonly called woolley, and sell at a very inferior price, but are caught in much greater abundance than the Dogger cod. The cod are all caught with hook, and brought alive in well boats to the London markets. The cod cured on the Dogger Bank is remarkably fine, and seldom cured above two or three weeks before brought to market; the barrel cod is commonly cured on the coast of .Scotland and Yorkshire. There is a great deal of inferior cured salt fish brought from New- A AFlStl. foundland and Ireland. The Skull of a Dogger Bank cod is a famous dish for an epicure, it being the richest and most luscious part of the fish; one of them is a good dish for three or four persons, and eats well either baked or boiled; the tail of a cod should always be cut in fillets or slices, and fried, which makes a good dish, and generally to be bought at a very reasonable rate; if boiled, it is always soft and watery, The Skull and tail of a cod makes an excellent Scotch dish, stewed and served up together, with anchovies, or oyster sauce, with the liquor it is boiled in, in the tureen. “ Lins is brouo-ht to the London market in the same manner as cod, but is very inferior to it, either fresh or salt. “ Turbots, The finest turbots that are brought to the London market, are caught ofi’ the Dutch coast, or German ocean, and arc brought in well boats alive. The commencement of the season is generally about March and April, and continues all the summer season. Turhots, like other fish, do not spawn all at the same time; therefore there is alwavs good and bad nearly all the year round, h'or this vear or two past, there has been an immense quantity lirought to London, from all )>arts, and of all ([ualities; aI'lSIl. •267 <jreal many I'roni a new fishery off Hartlepool, which are a very handsome looking turbot, hut by no means equal to what are caught off the Dutch coast. A great many excellent turbots are caught off Dover and Dungeness; and a large (piantity brought from Scotland, packetl in ice, which are of a very inferior (juality, and are generally to be bought for about one fourth the price of good turbots. “ Brills are generally caught at the same place as turbots, and are generally of the same tpiality as the turbot, from the dift'erent parts. Some brills are very good, but not equal to turbot. “ Salmon. The earliest that comes in season to the London market, is brought from the Severn, and begins to come into season the beginning of November, but very few so early, perhaps not above one in fifty, as many of them will not shoot their spawn till January, or after, and then continue in season till October, when they begin to get very thin and poor. The principal supply of salmon is from different parts of Scotland, packed in ice, and brought by water; if the vessels have a fair wind, they will be in London in three days; but it fre- (juently happens tliat they are at sea perha])s a fortnight, when the greater part of the fish -A A 2FISH. is perished, some tolerably good, and some ol all qualities, and has, for a year or two past, sold as low as two pence per pound, and up to as much as eighteen pence per pound at the same time, owing to its different degrees of goodness “ Salmon Gwilts, or Salmon Peel, are the small salmon which come from about five or six pounds to ten pounds, are very good fish, and make handsome dishes of fish, sent to table crooked in the form of an S. “ Berwick Trout are a distinct fish from the gwilts, and are caught in the River Tweed, and dressed in the same manner as the gwilt. “ Calvered Salmon is the salmon caught in the Thames, and cut into slices alive; and some few salmon are brought from Oxford to Lou- don alive, and cut. A few slices niakes a handsome, genteel dish, but is generally very expensive. “ JMaekarel generally make their appearance oft the Laud’s End about the beginning of April, and as the weather gets warm, they * Tliis accounts for tlic very low (uicc at wliicli the itinerant lishinongers cry their “ delicate Salmon,' “ da'mty fresh Salmon,” and “ Lire Coil," “ yew Macha- rel," Sec. Sec.I'ISII. •269 gradually come round the coast, and generally arrive off Brighton about May, and continue for some months, until they begin to shoot their spawn, when for above two months they are missing, until about Michaelmas, when there is a few very fat small mackarel of excellent flavour at this time make their appearance again. “ Dutch Plaice, when in season, and what are caught off the Dutch coast, are good fish either fried or boiled : they are frequently con- demned as a bad fish, because they do not eat so firm as a turbot or brills, which is not their nature; but they are very rich nutritious fish, more so than turbot; but what are caught on our own coast are nothing equal to the others. “ Soles are a fish that are generally to be procured good from some part of the coast, as some are going out of season, and some coming- in, both at the same time; a great many are brought in well-boats, alive, that are caught off Dover, and Folkstone, and some are brought from the same places by land carriage. The soles that are caught on that part of the coast are rather small, but exceeding good fish. The finest soles that are caught anywhere, are those that are off' Plymouth, near the Eddi- .A .A .3FISH, 270 stone, and all the way up the Channel, and to Torbay; it being very deep water, and the ground a fine gravelly bottom, they feed very solid, and are caught frequently very large, eight or ten pounds per pair; they are generally brought by water to Portsmouth, and thence by land ; but the greatest quantity are caught off Yarmouth and the Knole, and a great many are caught off the Forelands. “ Red Mullets are a very delicious fish, com- monly called the sea woodcock, and are dressed with their entrails in, there being no gut, only like a string, which is like marrow itself; they only require scraping; washed tenderly with a cloth, and broiled in a buttered paper: they are so rich, they require scarcely any sauce. The best are caught off Plymouth, and all the way up the channel to Portland, and some few off' Brighton. “ Grey Mullets, when in season, are very rich, good fish, but not equal to the red; those generally keep in the season near the fresh water. The best way of dressing those, is by baking them in a pye, or roasting, or baking them, with a pudding in their belly, and put m a tureen willi some good gravv, anti thev eat very fine.FISH. ‘271 “ John Doreys are a very good fish, cutting very white and firm, equal to a turbot in firm- ness, but not in richness; those caught off Plymouth and Torbay are the best. Lobster is requisite for sauce. “ Whitings are a very delicate fish, and re- quire to be eaten very fresli; those cauglit off' Dover and Folkstone are the best; some are brought alive, and some by land carriage. “ Skate is a very good fish when in good season, but no fish so bad when it is other- wise ; those persons tliat like it firm and dry, sliould liave it crimped ; but those that like it tender, should liave it plain, and eat not earlier than the second day, and if cold weather, three or four days old it is better: it cannot be kept too long, if perfectly sweet. Skate, if young, eats very fine, crimped and fried. “ Haddocks are a firm good fish; they are dressed many different ways. Large haddocks boiled, and oyster sauce. Haddocks salted a day or two, and eaten with egg sauce, are a very good article. Haddocks cut in fillets, and fried, eat very fine. Or if small, very well broiled, or baked with a pudding in their belly, and some good gravy. “ Fresh Sturgeon is esteemed a good fish by many; but, 1 believe, only because it does not272 FISH. come plentiful enough to be common; and to the eater of fish it makes a change: as many gentlemen cannot dine without fish, it makes a variety, or becomes useful, where people want to give a course of fish entirely : a piece stewed with some good gravy is the best way of dres- sing; or cut in slices, and fried, as you would a veal cutlet, eats very well. Sturgeon pickled, makes a handsome winter dish for the second course. “ Sinelts are allowed to be caught in the Thames on the first of November, and continue till May. The Thames smelts are the best and sweetest, for two reasons; they are fresher, and richer, than any other you can get: they catch them much more plentiful and larger in l.ancashire and Norfolk, but not so good: a great many are brought to town from Norfolk, but barely come good, as they are a fish should always be eaten fresh; indeed all river fish should be eaten fresh, except salmon, which, unless crimpt, eats better the second or third day; but all Thames fish particularly should be eaten very fresh ; no fish eats so bad kept. “ Lobsters are, in general, to be procured at ,dl times; but the best time is from April to August. After that time they begin to spawn, and seldom open solid. Crabs nearly tlie same.11811. •27.3 A Prawns are best truin Marcli to ^August. Cray- fish are generally to be procured good at all times ; the sea crayfish arc very iiidifiereiit fisli, and of bad digestion ; the only thing they are good for, is to make currie. laibsters arc dressed in many ways for dishes ; as lobster sallad, or Italian sallad, or plain, or currie. “ Cr(tb picked out of the shell, and divided in three parts, and decorated with a little lobster spawn, makes a very handsome dish for the second course, ora supper dish; some cooks and fishmongers dress them very hand- some. “ Pipers are a very good fish : the best that are caught are in the mid channel, from oft Torbay to Plymouth ; they are a very handsome fish when first caught, having many beautiful colours, but soon fade ; they eat a great deal like a firm fine cod ; cat good with a pudding in their bellies, baked or roasted, and some good gravy; or plain, boiled as you would a haddock. “ Garnetts. There are many ditFerent sorts of this fish; the red gurnett is a good deal like a piper; it is dressed the same as a piper or haddock. “ F.els are a good, and frequently very uscl'ul fish, as you can generally get them when you274 FISH. cannot get other fish, and make a good disli, either stewed or spitchcocked. “ Brawn is sold by fishmongers, and is a good thing for side dishes, or the second course; the brawn makers generally commence making in November, and continue making it till March.”A THE COOK’S ORACLE. BROTHS, GRAVIES, & SOUPS. Heef —(No. ISo.*) ASH a shill of beef very clean, crack the hone in two or three places, add thereto any trimmings you have of meat, game, or poultry, and put them into two gallons of cold water, in an open pot, on a cpdck fire: watch it, stir it up well from the bottom, and the moment it begins to simmer, skim it carefully, (or you will lose the beauty of your broth, which must be perfectly clear and limpid; on this depends the goodness oj the sojips, sauces, and gravies, of xchidi * In culinary teclinicals, is called first stock, or long lirolh—ill tlic I'reiicli Kitchen “ Le Grand Itoiiillon. "276 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. it is the basis) : then add a quart of cold water, to make more scum rise, and skim it again, and when the scum has quite done rising, put in only one moderate-sized carrot, a head of celery, two turnips, two onions, and a table- spoonful of salt, for it should not have any flavour from sweet herbs, spice, or garlick, &c.; these can be added after, if desired; cover it close, and set it by the side of the fire, and let it boil very gently for four or five hours, ac- cording to the weight of your meat: when it is reduced to about six quarts, strain it through a silk or tammis sieve; skim* it carefully, and set it in the coldest place you have. The quicker it cools the better. Obs.—This is the universal foundation for all sorts of Soups and sauces, brown or white. Stew no longer than the meat is thoroughly done to eat, and you will obtain e.xcellent broth, without depriving the meat of its nutritious suc- culence ; to boil it to rags, as is the common practice, will not enrich your liroths, but make them thick and grouty, and destroy the meat, which when thus gently stewed for only four or five hours, will afford a relishing and wholesome • If the gi'oasi' is left on the top, it keeps the broth from cooling, ami it often fnrns sour.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. ‘ITl meal tor half a dozen people ; or make it into potted beef, as in (No. 503); or when you have strained off all the broth, cover the meat ag;ain with water, and let it go on boiling for two or three hours longer, and it will produce you some very good glaze, see (No. 251.) I>eej (huvy *. — (No. 18fj.) Cover the bottom of a stewpan, that is well tinned and quite clean, with half a pound ol ham or lean bacon cut into slices, a shin of beef, or six pounds of the sticking-piece cut into half pound pieces, with a carrot, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, and a head of celery ; put a pint of broth or water to it, cover it close, and set it over a moderate tire till the water is reduced to as little as will just save the ingre- ilients from burning; let it brown a little, and then put in four cpiarts of boiling water f, when it boils up, skim it carefully, and wipe off with .1 clean cloth what sticks round the edge and n • Called in some Cookery liooks, “ .'tiEcoND SToc h " -in the French Kitelien Jus de IUeuf.” t .V "veat deni ot care is to he taken to waleli tin lime of pnttin;; in the water, lor if it i.s poured in too >0011, the "lavy will not have its tine flavour and t iiloiir ; and if it lie let alone till the meat sticks to tin p.iii, It will get a hnrnt taste. B B278 BHOTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. inside of the stewpan, that your gravy may be delicately clean and clear. Set it by the side of a tire, where it will stew very gently for four hours; if it has not boiled too fast, there should be about three quarts of gravy; strain through a silk or tammis sieve; take very par- ticular care to skim it well, and set it in a cold place. Strong Savoury Beef Gravy, — (No. 188,) fl/ms “ Brown Sauce,” alias “ Grand Esvagnol.” Take a stewpan that will hold four quarts, lay a slice or two of bacon (about a quarter of an inch thick) at the bottom, a couple of ounces of ham, (undressed is the best,) and two pounds of beef, or veal, a carrot, a large onion, with four cloves, so stuck in it (that the end of the cloves may not tear the tammis when the sauce is strained,) one head of celery, a bundle of parsley, lemon-thyme, and savoury, about as big round as your little finger when tied close, a few leaves of sweet basil, (one bay leaf, and a shallot if you like it,) a piece of lemon-peel, and a dozen corns of allspice*; pour on this • Truffles, nioiells ami musliroonis, ami ratsiips and wines, dvc. are added by those who arc tor the extieim of lluut Guta.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. •27!) half a pint of water, cover it close, and let it simmer gently on a slow fire for half an hour, in which time it will be almost dry ; watch it very carefully, and let it catch a nice brown colour, turn your meat, let it brown on the other side, then add two quarts of boiling water*, and boil very gently for an hour and a half. It IS now rich gravy : to convert it into Heef Cn/lis, or rich and thickened Gravi/. (No. 189.) Put a tablespoonful of Thickening, (No. 257,) into a basin, with a ladleful of the gravy; stir it (juick ; add the rest by degrees, till it is all well mixed, then pour it back into the stewpan, where the meat, &c. is; see the sauce is of a proper thickness, and leave it by the side of the fire to simmer for at least half an hour, that the thickening may thoroughly incorporate with the gravy, the stewpan being only half covered, stirring it every now and then ; a sort of scum will gather on the top, which it is best not to take oft' till you are ready to strain * Tlie genpial rule is to pul iu a pint or pint and half of water to a pound of meat, if it only siniuiers very gently. B B 2280 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOCPS. it through a tammis*. Take care it is neither too pale nor too dark a colour; if it is not thick enough, put it into a clean stewpan ; and let it stew longer, till it is reduced to the de- sired thickness ; or add a bit of glaze or por- table soup to it, see (No. 252); if it is too thick, you can easily thin it with a spoonful or two of warm broth, or water. When your sauce is done, stir it in the basin you put it into once or twice, while it is cooling. Family Soup. — (No. 190.) Put on eight or ten pounds of brisket of beef in a gallon of water; let this come very gently to a simmer, bordering on boiling; skim it carefully; when it has simmered in the gentlest manner for four or five hours, put in some car- rots and turnips cut into small shapes, and two heads of celery cut small; stew about an hour and a half longer, and the soup is ready to be served up. So7tie arc fond of small suet dumplings, as l)ig as nutmegs, scut up i/i the tureen with the soup. * A Titmmis is a worsted cloth, sold at the oil shops, made on purpose for straining sauces; the best way ofKROTltS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. •281 tea/ Broth.—(No. 191.) A knuckle of veal is best, with a ([uartor ol a pound of undressed ham ; manage these as directed in the receipt for beei’brotli, only take care not to let it catch a brownish colour, as this and the following and richer ])rcparation of veal, are chiefly used for xv/iite soups, sauces, cVc. / eul Gravif. — (No. 19l^-) About four pounds of the nut of the leg of veal, cut into half pound slices, with a (piarter of a pound of ham in small dice, pre]>ared like the beef gravy, but a great deal of care must be taken to watch the time of putting in the water; if the water is poured in too soon, the gravy will not liave its true flavour, and if it be let alone till the meat sticks too much to the pan, it will catch too brown a colour. Kitnckle. of Beal Soup. — (No. 193.) .A knuckle of veal of six pounds weight, will make a large tureen of excellent soup, and is using it is for two people to twist it contrary ways; this is a nuicli better way of straining sauce tliau tlirougli a sieve, and refines it niucli more conipli tely. B B d282 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. thus easily prepared ; cut a pound of bacon into slices about half an inch thick, lay it at the bottom of a soup kettle, or deep stewpan, and on this place the knuckle of veal, having first chopped the bone in two or three places, furnish it with two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, two large onions, with two or three cloves stuck in one of them, a dozen corns of black, and the same of Jamaica pepper, and a good bundle of lemon-thyme, winter savoury, and parsley. Just cover the meat with cold water, and set it over a quick fire till it boils; having skimmed it well, remove your soup- kettle to the side of the fire, let it stew very gently for four hours, till it is quite tender; then take out the bacon and veal, and strain the soup, and set it by in a cool place till you want it, when you must take off the fat from the surface of your liquor, and decant it (keeping back the settlings at the bottom,) into a clean stewpan; put three tablespoonsful of the fat you have taken off the soup, into a small stew- pan, and mix it with four tablespoonsful of flour, pour a ladleful of soup to it, and mix it with the rest by degrees, and boil it up till it is smooth. Cut the meat and gristle of the knuckle, and the bacon into mouthfuls, and put them into the soup, and let them get warm.BUOTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 283 Obs.—You may make this more savoury by adding catsup, &c. Shin of beef may be dressed in the same way. Mutton Broth,—(No. 1{)4.) Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, let it lay in some cold water for an hour, to take the blood out, then put it in a saucepan, with three quarts of water, a teaspoonful of salt, and two large talilespoonsful of best grits, a large onion, some thyme and knotted marjoram; then set it on a slow fire, and mind you skim it well; when you have taken all the scum oft', then put in three turnips, let it simmer slowly for two hours and a half, and strain it through a clean and sweet sieve. Obs. — You may thicken broth, by boiling with it a little oatmeal, rice, Scotch or pearl barley, and when you make it for a sick person, ask what they like boiled in it; some dislike onion, others thyme, &c. Mark Mutton Broth, rc ithout Meat, in Jive minutes, — (No. 1 Boil a few leaves of parsley with two tea- spoonsful of mushroom* catsup, in three quar- ' Hy this method, it is said, an ingenious Cook long284 miOTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOURS. ter.s of a pint of very thin gruel. Season with a little salt. Obs.— This is improved by a few drops of shallot wine (No. 402,) and the same of essence of sweet herbs (No. 419.) See also, Portable Soup (No. 252.) The Queen's morniitg Broth, — (No. 196.) As Sir Kenelm Digby, in his Closet of Cookery, ])age 150, London, 1669, informs us, was made in the following manner; A hen, a handful of parsley, one sprig of thyme, three of spearmint, a little balm, half a great onion, a little pepper and salt, and a clove, with as much water as will cover them; and this boiled to less than a pint, for one good porrengerful. Hodge Podge. — (No. 197-) Take a pound of rump steaks, the same quantity of veal eutlets and mutton chops, and deceived a large tainily, who were all fond of weak mutton broth. Mushroom gravy or catsup, made as (No. 432,) a|>proachcs the nature and flavour of meat gravy, more than any vegetable juice, and is tbe best substitute for it in meagre soups and extempore sauces, that culinary chemistry has yet produced.285 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. ■an ox-lieel, cut them into pieces, about an inch square, put the whole into a soup-pot, ami cover it with water, with two ounces of barley, an onion, a small bundle of sweet herbs, or three drachms of soup herb powder (No. 459,) en- closed in a bag, three heads of celery, a couple of turnips pared and cut in two, a large carrot scraped clean and split, three blades of bruised mace, two or three cloves, and half a dozen berries of black pepper; cover the soup-pot very close, so that no steam can evaporate; and if the lid does not fit tight, put a piece of jiaper over the pot, and then put the lid on ; let it stew vei'y gently for three hours; take out the spice, sweet herbs, and soup roots, pour the rest into a tureen, or soup-dish, and season it with a little salt. Ox-heel Jelly.— (No. 198.) The proportion of water to each heel is about a quart; keep it simmering gently for six or eight hours, it will make a pint of strong jelly, which is frequently used to add to mock turtle, and other soups. Obs. — Uct a heel that has only been scalded, not one of those usually sold at the tripe shops, wliich have been boiled till almost all the ge- latim; is extracted.286 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. Clear Gravy Soup. — (ISo. 200.) Cut half a pound of lean ham into thin slices and lay them at the bottom of a large stewpan or stockpot, with three pounds of lean beef, and a knuckle of veal; break the bones and lay them on the meat, take off the outer skin of two large onions, stick three cloves in one of them, and cut the other into slices, with two turnips; wash and clean a couple of large carrots, two heads of celery cut in pieces, and a large blade of mace: pour over these half a pint of cold water, cover the stewpan close, and set it over a smart fire, to boil quick, till the water is reduced, and the meat begins to stick to the bottom of the stewpan; turn your meat, &c. ; and when there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom of the stewpan, add four quarts of clean water: watch it, and when it is coming to a boil, put in half a pint of cold water, and then take off the scum, then put in half a pint more cold water, skim it again, and continue to do so till no more scum rises. Now set it on one side of the fire, to boil gently for four hours, strain it through a clean tammis, or napkin, (do not squeeze it, or your soup will be thick,) into a clean China or stone pan, let it remain till it is cold, and then remove all287 11R0TII3, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. the grease; when yon decant it, be careful not to disturl) the settlings at the bottom of the j)an; the liquor should be of a fine amber colour, and as clear as rock water; if it is not (|uite so bright as you wish it, put it into a stewpan, and after you have carefully skimmed it, break two whites and shells of eggs into a basin, beat them well together, put them into the soup, set it on a (piick hre, and stir it with a whisk till it boils, then set it ou one side of the tire to settle for ten minutes, run it through a fine napkin into a basin, and it is ready. llow’ever, if your broth is carefully skimmed, &c. according to the directions above given, it will be clear enough, without clari- fying, which process impairs the flavour of the broth, in a much higher proportion than it im- proves its appearance. Ohs. — This is the basis of almost all the gravy soups, which are called after the various vegetables that are put into them. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a tew leaves of chervil, make what is commonly called “ soup santea pint of asitaragus peas, and a cabbage lettuce, when they can be had, are an improve- ment; with rice, or Scotch barley, with Italian paste, or maecaroui, or vermicelli, or celery cut into leiurths; it will he the souo nsuallv called/ 288 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS, by those names, or turnips scooped round and fried in butter, or young onions prepared in the same way, will give you a clear turnip, or onion soup. The roots and vegetables you use, must be parboiled first, or they will impregnate the soup with too strong a flavour. The seasoning for all these soups is the same, viz. salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper. Shin of Beef Soup. — (No. 201.) Put a large shin of beef (after having sawed the bone into several pieces,) into a stewpan, with six quarts of water, two teaspoonsful of salt, to throw up the scum, which must be care- fully and completely removed as soon as it appears; then put in three whole onions, three carrots, and a couple of turnips, cut in pieces, a teaspoonful of whole allspice, and the same of black pepper; let it stew very gently for five or six hours, and strain it oft’ into a pan, and let it remain till next day. When the meat is cold, pick out all the gristles and sinews from it, cut them into jiieces as big as a small walnut, and lay (hem by to put into the souj); the rest of the meat (after the skins, &c. are picked oiit.t pound in a mortar, with a little beaten since, salt, and a \ery little butter, and make it intt»289 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. potted beef, (No. 503.) Next morning take oft’ the fat from the soup, cut a large onion into slices, and fry it a fine brown (but do not let It get burned) in some of the fat you liave taken oft the surface of your soup iHpior; put it into a clean stewpan, with your soup, and the gristles, and let them simmer together fur half an hour, then rub down four tablespoonsfnl of flour in a tcacupful of soup, add two table- spoonsful of mushroom catsup, and one of browning ; give it a boil for five minutes, put it through a sieve, and it is ready for talftc. 0/a?. —These will be found most excellent family .Soups, nourishing and delicious to most palates. If the meat be simmered for three hours the evening before the soup is wanted, and suft’ered to stand till it is cold, much fat* may be removed from the surface of the soup, which is extremely delicate, and far superior for all the purposes that drippings are applied to. The Reef will bo a most excellent and tender bouilli; and if some of the gravy be thickened see receipt (No. 257,) and some minced ghirkins,’ • Sec » L\ht de Cuisinier." par A. Bcaiivillicr Puis ot all t ic fats that arc used for frying, „,at vviiich is taUubo.^^^290 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. and capers, are added to it, and poured into the dish, and over the meat, it will make it still more relishing; carrots and turnips cut, as for harricot mutton, may be added. See also (No. 328) Wow Wow Sauce. Harrico Mutton Soup. —(No. 202.) Divide a large neck of mutton into two parts,, put the scrag end into a stewpan, with four large turnips, and two carrots, a large onion cut in two, and a gallon of water; let it stew gently over a very slow fire for two hours, till the mutton is done enough, but not till it is boiled to rags; then bruise two of the turnips, and one of the carrots through a cullender, and put them into the soup, to thicken it; cut the other part of the mutton into chops, fry them just to brown them, put them to the soup, and stew them very gently till the chops are tender, but take care not to do them to rags; cut the other turnips and carrot into shapes, and put them in the soup just before you take it up. Send it up in a soup-tureen or dish. Mutton Broth, with Cutlets. — (No. 203.) Cut six or eight handsome cutlets ofi' the best end of the neck of mutton, trim ofi someBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 291 oi' the fat, and lay the cutlets on a plate ; take the scrag and trimmings, and put them into a large stewpan, with a gallon of water, one head of celery, and a small bundle of parsley and thyme; set it on the fire, and when it boils skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly by the side of the fire for two hours; strain it into a clean stewpan, or broth pot, and have ready turnips, carrots, celery, and button onions, of each a small teaenpful, cut into dice, or scooped with a turnip-scoop. Put the cutlets into the broth, and about a quarter of an hour before you think the cutlets are done, put in the roots and vegetables, season it with salt, and let it stew very slowly till they are just tender. Scotch T^arhy Broth. — (No. 204.) Chop a shin of Beef into four or five pieces, put it into a soup-pot, with two gallons of cold water, and set it over a brisk fire till it boils skim it well, and put in a large carrot, a turnip, a head of celery, and a small bundle of parsley and thyme; let it stew gently for three hours, then strain it into a clean stewpan, or soup-pot, take oft’ the fat, and put in three quarters of a pound of barley, well washed and picked, another head of celery, two turnips, a carrot, c c 2292 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AKD SOUPS. and an onion, cut into small dice, and let it boil very gently till the barley is soft, which will take about two hours more, then season it with a teaspoonfid of salt. Obs. — Instead of a shin of beef, this is some- times made with a neck, or breast of Mutton, or a couple of Sheep’s heads, chopped to pieces. Scotch Leek Soup. — (No. 205.) You may make this soup to most advantage the day after a joint of mutton has been boiled ; put the liquor the mutton has been boiled in, into a soup-pot, with four large leeks cut into pieces an inch long, season with pepper and salt, and let it boil slowly for an hour, then mix a quarter of a pound of oatmeal with half a pint of cold water, till it is quite smooth; pour this into the soup, let it simmer gently half an hour longer, and send it up hot. lUce Soup. — (No. 206.) M'asli and pick a quarter of a pound of rice, put it into a (pmrt stewpan with a pint of cold water, boil it two minutes, spread it on a hair sieve to drain; put it into a large stewpan, with three quarts of beef or veal broth ; (see Receipts, No. 185 and 191 ;) let it boil an hour, taking offB-ROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 293 the scum as it rises, rub it through a tammis, put half a pint of cream to it and the yolk of three eggs ; it must not boil after. Pot aloe Soup. — (No. 207.) Peel and slice a dozen potatoes, half a dozen onions, and three or four heads of celery; put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, two or three tablespoonsful of oatmeal, and a pint of water; let these simmer very slowly for about an hour, then add five pints of warm water; let it stew on, till the vegetables are all well softened, so as they may be rubbed through a sieve. Season it with ground black pepper and salt. Turnip Soup, White,— (No. 208.) Make a gallon of clear veal or beef broth, see (No. 185,) and (No..191 ;) if it is not perfectly clear, it must be clarified*; cut eight or ten turnips that are not spongy, into round balls, about as big as a nutmeg, (do not wash them,) put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, and fry them of a fine gold colour, dry them on a hair sieve, or a sheet of paper, put See Receipt, (No. 252.) c c 3294 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AKD SOUPS. them into the soup; set it by the stove to sim- mer gently for about a quarter of an hour, till the fried turnips are tender; skim it carefully, and season it with a little salt; cut some crusts of bread into bits about as big as a nutmeg, dry them on a plate before the fire, put some into the soup, and send up the rest on a plate. Turnip Soup, Brou n —(No. 209.) Have six turnips, two onions, or two leeks, and two heads of celery, sweat them down with half a pound of ham, till they catch a little colour; fill them up with broth, and boil till tender enough to rub them through a tammy. Scoop out twenty-four turnips, size of a marble; fry them in butter till brown, put them in the soup, and season it with salt and mace and pepper, and let it simmer gently till the fried turnips are tender. Game Soup. — (No. 210.) In the game season, it is very seldom that pheasants and partridges arc all eaten upon a gentleman’'S table, consequently it will be easy tor a cook to give her master a very good soup at a very little expense, by taking all the meat oft the breasts, and pounding it in a mortar;29.5 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. I and beating to pieces the legs and bones, and boiling them in some broth for an hour. Boil six turnips, mash them, and strain them through a tammis cloth with the meat that has been pounded in a mortar, strain your broth, and put a little of it at a time into the tammis, to help you to strain all of it through. Put your soup- kettle near the tire, but do not let it boil; when ready to dish your dinner, have six yolks of eggs mixed with half a pint of cream, strain through a silk sieve, put your soup on the Hrc, and as it is coming to a boil, put in the eggs, and stir well with a wooden spoon; do not let it boil, as it would curdle; look if it is salt enough. Obs. — 1 received the above from the same artist who wrote the receipt to dress Turtle, (No. 2.50.) Carrot Soup. — (No. 212.J Scrape and wash half a dozen large Carrots, peel off the red outside, which is the only part that should be used for this soup; put them into a gallon stewpan, with one head of celery, an onion, and two turnips cut into thin pieces, the same as the carrots; take two quarts of common beef, veal, or mutton broth, or if you have any cold roast beef bones, they will make2'96 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. very good broth for this soup; when you have put the broth to the roots, cover the stewpan close, and set it on a slow stove for two hours and a half, when the carrots will be soft enough to rub through a tammis, or hair sieve, with a wooden spoon, and add as much broth as will make it a proper thickness, i. e. almost as thick as pease soup ; put it into a clean stewpan, make it hot, season it with a little salt, and send it up with some toasted bread cut into pieces, half an inch square. Some put it into the soup; but the best way is to send it up on a plate, as a side dish. Obs. —This is a very elegant soup, and neither expensive nor troublesome to prepare; in the Kitchens of some opulent Epicures, the roots are fried in butter, before they are put on to stew; if this is not done very carefully, and with very nicely clarified fat, all the sweet flavour of the vegetables will be 'overpowered by the rank empyreumatic savour of the fryingpan. Parsnip Soup. — (No. 213.) This is made in the same manner as the Carrot soup. It is unnecessary to recapitulate the foregoing receipt.BaOTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 297 Celerif Soup. — (No. 214.) Split half a dozen heads of the whitest celery you can get into slips about two inches long, wash them well, lay them on a hair sieve to drain, and put them into three quarts of veal gravy (see Receipt, No. 192) in a gallon soup- pot; set it by the side of the fire, to stew very gently till the celery is tender; (this will take about an hour.) If any scum rises, take it ofl’, season with a little salt, and send it up with the same accom])animents as in the last receipt. Obs. — When celery cannot be procured, a drachm of the Seed, which may be considered as the Essence of Celery, and can be had at any season, will give the fidl flavour of the fresh vegetable to a gallon of Soup, or add a little Essence of Celery (No. 409.) Creen Pease Soup. — (No. 216.) Take two quarts of full-grown (but not old) Green Peas; put a large saucepan on the fire half full of water, and when it boils, put the peas in, with a handful of salt; let them boil till they are done enough to be eaten, then drain them in a cullender, and put them into a clean gallon stewpan, with a largo onion, a298 broths; GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. cabbage lettuce, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and three quarts of beef broth, or gravy, made as in the receipts (No. 185, and 186;) cover the stewpan close, and set over a slow fire, to stew gently for an hour; then rub it through a tammis into another stewpan, stir it with a wooden spoon, and if it is too thick, add a little more broth; have ready boiled, as for eating, a pint of young peas, and put them into the soup; season with a little salt and sugar. N. B. Some Cooks, while the soup is going on, slice a couple of cucumbers, as you would for eating; take out the seeds, lay them on a cloth to drain, and then fry them a light brown in a little butter; and put them into the soup the last thino- before it °;oes to table. Obs. — If the soup is not green enough, pound a handful of spinage in a marble mortar, and squeeze the juice through a cloth into the soup; some leaves of mint may be added, if approved. Green Pease Soap, without Meat.—(No.217-) Take three pints of young green peas, put them on in a small quantity of water, give them a boil or two, and then pour away the water; put the peas into a marble mortar, and pound them to a mash. Set on a saucepan, with aBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 29sl quarter of a pound of butter, an ounce of onion cut small, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and savoury, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of large cucumbers cut in quarters; set the pan on a moderate fire, dredge in two or three table- spoonsful of flour, and stir all carefully about till the whole is well done; then pour in three quarts of water, let it boil up, and when you have skimmed it clean, put in the pounded peas; stir all well together, let it again boil up, and then strain it through a hair sieve, or tammis; it should be very thick and fine. If it does not appear sufficiently green, pound a handful of spinage, and put the juice, when properly strained,, into the soup; it must not boil afterwards. N. B. You may add a pint of very young peas, like as in the preceding receipt, and some cooks put in two heads of celery, and a couple of anchovies. Read the following receipt. Pease Soup. — (No. 218.) The common way of making this is to a quart of split peas, (whole peas are often difficult to burst,) to put three quarts of cold soft water, not more, (or it will be what “ jack ros-bii" calls “ Soup Maigrc,”) notwithstanding Mother300 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. Glasse orders a gallon, and her Ladyship’s Receipt has been copied by almost every Cookery book-maker, who has strung Receipts together since. A pound of Bacon, (not very fat,) or Roast beef bones, or four Anchovies, or instead of the gallon of water, a gallon of the liquor ill which meat has been boiled, tasting it first, to make sure it is not too salt*. Wash two heads of Celery, cut it, and put it in, with two Onions peeled, a sprig of Savory, or sweet iMarjoram, or Lemon-Thyme, set it on the trivet, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire, stirring it every quarter of an hour (to keep the peas from sticking to the bottom,) till the peas are tender, which will be in about three hours; some Cooks, now slice a head of celery, and a couple of onions, and fry them in a little butter, and put them into the Soup, and then work the whole through a coarse hair sieve, and then through a fine sieve, or (what is better) through a tammis, with the back of a wooden spoon; put it into a clean stcwpan, with half a tea- spoonful of ground black pepper t, let it boil • If your li(|iinr is very salt, the peas will never boil tender. Therefore when yon make Pease Soup with the liquor in whieh s dl Pork or lleef has been boiled, tie up the Peas in a cloth, and boil them first for an hour in soft water. t Some put in dried mint rubbed to a fine powder;BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. again for ten minutes, and if any fat arises, skim it off. You may put in a head of Celery cut into pieces an inclt long, or a score of young Button Onions. Cut a slice of bread, that has been leaked two or three days, into dice half an inch square; put a tablespoonful of clean drippings or lard into an iron fryingpan, when it is melted, put in the broad, and fry it a fine delicate brown ; take care that it turns about, by the shaking of the pan as it is frying, that it may be on each side of a tine light brown, see (\o. 319); take it iq) with a fish slice, and lay it on a sheet of paper to drain the grease; be careful that this is done nicely; send these up in one side dish, and dried and powdered mint in another. Tliose who are for a double Relish, and are true lovers of “ /iiiut gout," may have some Bacon cut into small scpiares like the bread, and fried till it is crisp, and sent up in another little dish, or ])ut Cucumber fried into this soiqv, as you have directions in (No. 216.) Obs.— The most ecoitomical method of inulang PEASE SOUP, is to save the bones of a joint of Roast beef, and put them into the litpiorin which but as every Ixulv <loes not like mint, it is best to send it up oil a plate, see Pe\ I'owdf.r, (No. 458,) aucl Kjsence of Celery (No. 409.) X> D302 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. a leg of Mutton, or a leg of Pork has been boiled, and proceed as in the above receipt. A bock, or shank bone of ham, or a ham bone, or the root of a tongue, or a red or pickled herring, are favourite additions with some Cooks ; others send up rice or vermicelli with pease soup*. N.B. To make Extempore Pease Soup, see (No. .5.55.) Pease mid Dripping Soup. — (No. 219-) Pease soup may be made savoury, full to the palate, and most excellent and agreeable, without any meat, by incorporating two ounces of fresh beef, mutton, or pork drippings, with two ounces of oatmeal, and mixing this well into the gallon of soup, made as in (No. 221.) * My witty predecessor. Dr. Hunter, {see Ciiliiia, page !(7,) says, “ If a proper quantity of curry powder be added to pease soup, a good soup might be made, under tlie title of curry pease soup. Heliogabalus offered rewards for tlie discovery of a new dish, and the Uritish Parliament have given notoriety to inven- tions ot much less importance than ‘ curry pease soup.’ ” N.H. Celery cut into bits about an inch long, and boiled separately, and thrown into the tureen when the soup is going to table, will give another agreeable variety, and may be called Cei.ery and Pease .Soup.BROTHS, gravies, AND SOUPS; 303 f'enac Soup and Pickled Pork. — (No. 220.) A couple of pound of the belly part of pickled pork will make very good pease soup, if the pork be not too salt; if it has been in salt more than two days, it must be laid in water the night before it is used, and put on in three quarts of water, with the ingredients mentioned in the first receipt; let it boil gently for two hours, then put in the pork, and boil very gently till it is enough to eat, this will take about an hour and a half longer; when done, wash the pork clean in hot water, send it up in a dish, and pour the soup into a tureen, with the accompaniments ordered in the first receipt for pease soup. Obs. — The meat is boiled no longer than to be done enough to be eaten; thus, you get excellent soup, without any expense of meat destroyed. Plain Pease Soap.—(No. 221.) To a quart of split-peas, and two heads of celery, put three quarts of soft water; let them simmer gently on a trivet over a slow fire for three hours, (stirring it up every quarter of an hour to prevent the peas burning at the bottom n D 2304 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SQUPS. of the soup kettle); when they are well softened, work them through a hair sieve, and then through a tammis into a clean stewpan, and ^ive it a boil up; take off any scum that comes up, and it is ready. Prepare J'ried bread and dried mint as in the first receipt for pease soup, and send them up with it on two side dishes. Obs.—This is an excellent family soup, pro- duced with very little trouble or expense; most of the receipts for pease soup are crowded with ingredients that entirely overpower the flavour of the pease. Asparagus Soup. — (No. 222.) This is a soup made with the points of asparagus, in the same manner, as Green Pease Soup is with peas, except, that only half the aspara- gus is rubbed through a sieve, and the other is cut in pieces about an inch long, and boiled till tender, and scut up in the soup; to make two quarts, there must be a pint of heads to thicken it, and half a pint cut in. This soup is some- times made by adding the asparagus heads to common pease soup. Obs.—Some jieople fry an onion in a littleBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 305 butter, and rub it through a sieve, and add it with the other ingredients. If (iter Soup. — (No. 2'i.3.) Clean half a dozen carrots, as many onions, a couple of parsnips, two or three heads of celery, and half a dozen turnips, a small cabbage, a pint of split peas ; these, with a large teacupful of bread crumbs, put into a saiu ejian with five pints of cold water; place it over a slow fire, and let it boil gently for three hours; work your ingredients through a hair sieve or cullender into a clean stewpan, and season it with pepper and salt: send it up hot, with bread cut into dice, and fried, the same as directed with pease soup (No. 218.) Obs. —To make this soup make a little stronger impression, on the gustatory organs of a “ grand gourmand,’' the vegetables may be fried in butter before they are boiled, and the “grand Cuisinier” may add spices, &c. “ ad libitum.” Maigre (iravp Soup.—(No. 224.) Wash and peel two ounces of onion, two of carrots, two of turnips, and two heads of celery ; cut them into thin slices, and put them into a large stewpan, with a ipiarter of a pound of n 1) 3306 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. butter; set the stewpan over a quick fire, stir in two tablespoonsful of flour, and let them fry till they have got well browned ; pour to them three quarts of boiling water, a pint of split peas, some bread raspings, or stale crusts, two blades of bruised mace, or four or five cloves, a teaspoonful of ground black pepper, and salt enough to season it; let it stew very gently for two hours ; by this method your soup will be as well coloured, and the flavour as good, as if it were made with gravy. Take it off the fire and let it stand for half an hour, and then pour it ofl’very gently, so as not to disturb tlie sediment at the bottom of tlie stewpan; your soup will then be very clear, and i-eady for the herbs and roots you choose to put in, such as celery, chervil, turnips, and carrots, shred fine and boiled till they are tender, (which may take almost twenty minutes,) and it is ready. You may send up fried bread on a plate, for wh.ich you will find directions in (No. 218,) and (No. 319.) Obs. — The French sometimes add to this (which much improves it,) a couple of tlie sea ducks called Macreusc, which feed upon muscles, and being of a fishy nature, may be eaten on fast days.BROTHS, (iRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 307 Fis/i Soup.—(No. You may make this with a Cod’s Skull, or tliree pounds of Eels, or tliree pounds of Skate, or half a dozen Flounders; cut them in pieces, put them on to stew in three quarts of water, season it with four blades of luniised mace, an onion with lour cloves stuck in it, a lu:ad of celery, some pepper and salt, and a hunch of sweet herbs, or three drachms of soup herb powder, (\o. 459); cover them down close, and after they have simmered gently for a couple of hours, pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a clean stewpan; while this is doing, take half a pint of oysters, and pound them in a mortar with the yolks of three hard eggs, and a little pepper and salt; let all bod up together till it is of the thickness of cream ; rub it through a sieve or tammy into your tureen, and send it to table. Onion Soup ISIaigrc. — (No. 22(1.) Take two ounces of onion*, two of carrots, two heads of celery, and one turnip; slice these ■* Two or thrt'e dozi ii very small button Onions are sometimes ns('(l for a elian^e, fried in tlic same manner, whole, and put into the Soup after you have put it tinongli a tammis.308 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. very thin, and put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan; when it boils, which you will know by its leaving off' scolding, and be- coming quite still, put in the above ingredients, and fry them a light brown, take care not to burn them; then add, by degrees, either three quarts of pease soup, or boiling water, two an- chovies, some whole black pepper, and two penny rolls; boil together till the bread is re- duced to a pulp; work it through a coarse hair sieve, and set it again upon the fire; skim it well, put in the yolks of four eggs, and pass it through a fine sieve, or temmis; send up with it fried bread cut into the form of dice, or a French roll cut into small bits and dried before the fire. Broze/i Soup Maigre. — (Xo. 0,27.) Put a gallon of water into a soup-pot, with three quarters of a pint of bread-raspings to thicken it; throw in two or three onions sliced, half a dozen cloves, a te.aspoonful of whole black pepper, the same of salt; boil up together for about half an hour, and rub it through a sieve. Take some carrots, and a head of celery cut into bits, and fry them in butter; put them to (he soup, and let it go on simmering till these arc tender; if not brown enough, colour it withBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOURS. 309 a little burnt sugar, for which you have a receipt (No. 322.) Soon made Savouiy Soup, in Tuenty Minutes. (No. 229.) To make a quart, put an ounce of Butter, or of clean sweet drippings into a two cpiart stew- pan, with half an ounce of Onion, and a head of Celery chopped small, fry it till it is a little brown, then add two tablespoonsful of flour, stir together till it becomes a paste, then by degrees add a pint of boiling water; now mix by degrees a tablespoonful of oatmeal, and a teaspoonful of Pea Powder (No. 458,) with a pint of cold water, and pour it into the stewpan; season it with a little pepper and salt, and a dozen corns of allspice, and rub it through a sieve or tammis; toast a slice of bread, cut it into pieces three quarters of an inch square, and send it up on a plate, or fried bread, as di- rected in (No. 2 18.) OI>s.—This has the advantage of being very quickly prepared at a very moderate expense. Those who have not tasted it, will not easily imagine, what a delicious meal is produced, by the combination of these cheap and homely in- gredients.310 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. Drippings Soup. — (No. 230.) Wash five ounces of barley, and put it on to boil on a slow fire, in six quarts of water; skim it carefully, and when it is reduced to about five quarts, put on a head of celery, or half a drachm of celery seed, a couple of large onions, and let it boil another hour, till it is reduced to a gallon; put four ounces of oatmeal into a basin, mix it well with three ounces of clean mutton, beef or pork drippings, and these by degrees with the above liquor, adding to it a tablespoonful of pea powder (No. 458,) or the Soup-herb savoury powder (No. 460,) a tea- spoonful of ground black pepper, and two tea- spoonsful of salt; let all boil up together for a few minutes till it is well incorporated. Drippings intended for soup, should be taken out of the pan almost as soon as it has dropped from the meat; if it is not quite dean, clarify it. See receipt (No. 83.) Dor various receipts for Economical Cookery, sec Mrs. Melroe’s book; it is a work of great in- genuity and originality. Obs. — II the generally received opinion be true, that animal and vegetable foods aft’ord nourishment in proportion to the quantity of oil, jelly, mucilage, and sugar can be e.xtractedBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. .}1 1 from them; these soups have strong claims to tlie attention of the rational economist. f ermiceUi Soup. — (No. 231.) Have ready two quarts of veal gravy, made as in receipt (No. 192,) put this into a clean gallon stewpan, put about six ounces of vermi- celli to it, let it boil a few minutes, season it with salt, and send it up hot, with the crust of a French roll, cut into pieces the size of a six- pence, on a side dish. Vermicelli Soup, H kite. — (No. 232.) Put two quarts of veal broth, made as in receipt (No. 191,) into a clean gallon stewpan; put it on the stove, and when it boils, mix the yolk of three eggs with half a pint of cream, and a little salt; strain it through a hair sieve into the soup; stir it quick, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle; send it up as quick as possible. Maccaroni Soup. — (No. 233.) Boil six ounces of maccaroni in water for four minutes, lay it on a hair sieve that all the water may drain from it; put it into a stewpan again,312 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a bay leaf, an onion, with two cloves stuck in it, and half a pint of broth or water; let it simmer in the corner of the stove till done. To make this soup, you must have a pound of good lean ham, a knuckle of veal, and an old fowl; cut your ham in slices, and lay them at the bottom of a large stewpan, cut your veal to pieces and your fowl, and put them to the ham, with a ladleful of broth, or water; set your stewpan on the fire, and let it reduce till it begins to stick to the stewpan, then cover your meat with broth, or water, skim it well, put in some salt, with two carrots, one onion, two cloves, a head of celery, two turnips, and one parsnip; let it simmer four or five hours, then strain the liquor through a hair sieve; three quarts is all you must expect, if you like to have good soup; then have a quarter of a pound of parmesan cheese grated ; when ready to dish, take away the onion and bay leaf from the maccaroni, put at the bottom of your tureen a bed of maccaroni, then a bed of parmesan cheese, and so on, till all is in ; pour your soup over, and send it up as hot as possible. Every article employed in this soup must be of the very best quality. It is seldom xcell made in this country.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 313 ISluccnroui Soup, the new zcup.—(No. 234.) This is called, in the French kitchen, “ Potage a la Camtrani,” the erudite gourmand who in- vented it. Prepare your maccaroni and broth as in the last receipt; mince fine all the vegetables that have been boiled in the broth, with two dozen of fowls’ livers that have been parboiled; mix and chop small these with the vegetables, and lay a bed of these ingredients between the maccaroni and the cheese, of which yon will want a pound. Thin is one of the lust produclions, and the reigning favourite of the French kitchen, xchcre the desire for noveltij is insatiable, and folios might i be filed with their innumerable receipts for soups. Cray Fish Soup.—(No. 2.35.) This soup is sometimes made M'ith beef broth, and sometimes with fish, in the following manner. Take two or three flounders, eels, eudo-eons &c. and set them on to boil in a gallon of cold water ; when it is pretty nigh upon boiling, scum it well, and put in a couple of onions, and as many carrots cut to pieces, and some parsley.314 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. a dozen berries of black and Jamaica pepper, and about half a hundred cray-fish; take off the small claws, and shells of the tails, and pound them fine, and boil them with your broth about an liour; strain off, and break in some crusts of bread to thicken it, and if you can get it, the spawn of a lobster, (the inside spawn gives the most colour,) pound it and put to your soup, and let it simmer very gently for a couple of minutes, put in your cray-fish, make hot, and send up. Ohs. — One of my predecessors recommends “ cray-fish pounded alive, as an ingredient in his broth,” to sweeten the sharpness of the blood.— Vide Clermont's Cookery, page 5, 8vo. London, 1776. Prazcit, or Shrimp Soup. — (No. 236.) Prawns, or shrimps, make an excellent soup just in the same manner ; but there is a small bag in the carcass, full of gravel, which must be taken out before you pound them for stock. Use only the tails of the prawn ; but the cray- fish, body and all, except the legs and shells. Lobster Soup. — (No. 237.) To make a most elegant, nutritious, and de-BkOTllS, UU.AV1ES, AND SOUPS. 315 E L 2 licious Lobster soup, you must have four large lively Young Hen Lobsters* and pick out tlie eggs, or outside live spawn; then boil the lobsters in salt and water for twenty or thirty minutes, according to their size; when cold, split the tails, take out the fish, crack the claws, and cut the meat into mouthfids ; take out the coral and soft part of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortal', pick out the fish from the chines, beat part of it with coral, and with this make force-meat balls finely seasoned with mace, nutmeg, and a little grated lemon- peel, and boil them in a little of your veal broth. Make a gallon of veal broth as per receipt (No. 191,) seasoned with mace, nutmegs, and a little sweet basil; take the live spawn and bruise it in a marble mortar with a little of your veal broth, rub it through a sieve, and add it to your souj) with the meat of the lobsters, and the remaining coral; let it simmer very gently for ten minutes; now have ready, the yolks of six fresh eggs, beat them up well with a little of the soup, and just give it a warm, keep stirring it all the while, and mind not to let it boil, or its fine red colour will immediately fade; turn it into your tureen, and add the juice of a good lemon.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 31fi Soup and Bouilli. — (No. 238.) The best parts for this purpose, are either the shin, or a piece of the middle of brisket of beef, about seven or eight pounds weight; bind it round with a fillet of tape, to prevent its coming to pieces when you take it up : put a slice under it, which will enable you to put it on the dish entire; put it into a soup-pot or deep stewpan with cold water enough to cover it, and a quart over, set it on a quick fire to get the scum up, which remove as it rises; then put in two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, two heads of celery, a large onion with two cloves sticking in it, and a faggot of parsley and thyme, set your pot by the side of the fire to simmer very gently, till the meat is just tender enough to eat; this will require about five or six hours. Put a large carrot, a turnip, a large onion, and a head or two of celery into the soup whole, but take them out as soon as they are done enough, lay them on a dish till they are cold, then cut them into small squares ; when the beef is done, take it out carefully, and strain the soup through a h'lir sieve into a clean stewpan, take oli all the fat, put the vegetables that are cut into tlie soup, the flavour of which you may heighten.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. .317 it’ you like it, by adding a wineglassful of niusli- room catsup, and a tablespoonful of browning. (If a thickened soup is preferred, take four large tablespoonsful of the clear pot skiininings, and four spoonsful of Hour; mix it smooth together, tlien by degrees stir it well into the soup, pass it through a tammis sieve, and add the vegev tables and seasoning the same as directed in the clear soup.) Keep the beef hot, and send it up as a remove to the soup, with, for sauce, some carrots, turnips, and two dozen button onions boiled tender in a pint of the soup, thickened with two tablespoonsful of Hour, and two of skim- mingsmixed quite smooth; season it with a little pepper and salt, or send up Wow Wow Sauce, (No. 328,) in a boat. See also (No. 5,) “ Beef Bouilli,” and Stewed Shin of Beef, (No. 493.) Ox Cheek Soup,— (No. 23f).) Should be preparerl the day before it is to be eaten, as you cannot cut the meat ofi’ the head into neat mouthfuls unless it is cold; therefore, the day before you want your soup, 1)ut half an ox cheek into a large tub of cold water, soak it for a couple of hours, then break all the bones that have not been broken at the butchers, and wash it very well in several E E 3318 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. waters; put it into a brazing-kettle or soup- pot, just large enough to hold it, Muth six quarts of cold water, two heads of celery, a couple of carrots, a turnip, a leek, two large onions, with four cloves stuck in one of them, two blades of mace, a dozen berries of black pepper, same of allspice, and a bundle of sweet herbs, such as marjoram, lemon-thyme, savorv, and parsley; cover the soup-pot close, and set it on a quick fire; take off the scum, which will rise when it is coming to a boil, and set it by the fireside to stew very gently for five hours; take out the head, lay it on a disli, pour the soup through a fine sieve into a stone-ware pan, and set them by in a cool place till the next day; — then set the soup on to boil away, till it is reduced to three quarts; put one ounce of butter* into a gallon stewpan ; when it is melted, throw into it four large tablespoonsful of flour; when they are well mixed together, and browned by degrees, pour to this your soup, and stir it well together for half an hour, strain it through a hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and put to it the meat of the head (which, wliile your soup has been going on, have cut into pieces about * Or tliickcn with fat skinnnings, as in the next receipt..319 EROTIIS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS, an inch square ;) let it stew half an lioiir longer, and season it with Cayenne pepper, salt, and a glass of good white wine, or a tablcspoonful of brandy. See Ox Cheek Stewed (No. .507.) Oi Tail Soup. — (No. 240.) Two tails will make a tureen of soup; (desire the Butcher to divide them at the joints,) lay them to soak in warm water, while you get ready your gravy and vegetables. Cut into slices a pound or two of gravy beef, put them into a two gallon stewpan, with a quarter pint of cold water, -a head of celery, two onions, with half a dozen cloves stuck in one of them, a dozen berries of allspice, the same of black pepper, two carrots, two turnips, and a bundle of savory, lemon-thyme, and parsley; put your stewpan over a slow fire till the meat looks brown, turn it about, and let it get a little colour; then put in the tails, with three quarts of boiling water, make it boil quick, and skim it carefully, as long as you see any scum xise; then cover your pot as close as possible, and set it on the side of the fire to keep simmering till the went becomes tender, and will leave the bones easily; this will require two or three hours ; nnrid it is not done too much: when perfectly320 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. tender, take out the meat, and cut it off the bones, in neat mouthfuls ; skim your broth, and strain it through a sieve; to thicken it with flour and butter, as directed in the preceding receipt, or put two tablespoonsful of the fat you have taken oil' the broth into a clean stew- pan, with four or fire tablespoonsful of flour, or oatmeal; set them over the fire, and stir them well together, then pour in the broth by degrees, stirring it and mixing it with the thickening; let it boil for another half hour, or till it is quite smooth, strain it through a tammis into a clean stewpan, put in the meat, with a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, (No. 436,) and a glass of wine, and season it with salt. Obs.—See Obs. to (No. 493.) fir Heel Soup—(No. 240.*) Must be made the day before it is eaten. Procure an ox heel undressed, or only scalded, (not one that has been already boiled, as they are at tlie trijie simps, till almost all the gela- tinous parts are extracted,) and two that have been boiled as tlicy usually are at the tripe shops. Cut the meat oft' the boiled heels into neat mouthfuls, and set it by on a plate; put321 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. the trimmings and bones into a stewpan, with three tjuarts of water, with the unboiled heel cut into quarters ; furnish the stewpan with two onions and two turnips pared and sliced, pare off the red part of a couple of large carrots, add a couple of eshallots cut in half, a bunch of savory, or lemon-thyme, and double the quan- tity of parsley; set this over or by the side of a slow steady fire, and keep it simmering very gently (or the soup-liquor will evaporate,) for at least seven hours; during which, take care to remove the fat and skum, that will rise to the surface of the soup, which must be kept a§ clean as possible. Now strain the liquor through a sieve, and put two ounces of butter into a clean stewpan; when it is melted, stir into it as much fiour as will make it a stiff paste, add to it by degrees, the soup liquor, a shallot cut in half, twenty corns of allspice, and same of black pe]iper, (just cracked) the peel of a lemon pared as tliin as possible, a couple of bay- leaves, and a head of celery; let it go on sim- mering for half an hour longer; then pass it through a tammy; put in the juice of a lemon, a glass of wine, a tablespoonfid of mushroom catsup, and the meat of the boiled heels; when they are warmed through, your sontp is ready fur the tureen.322 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOOTS. Obs.—Those who are disposed to make this a more substantial dish, may introduce a-couple of sets of goose giblets, or ox tails, or a pound of veal cutlets, cut into mouthfuls, and then stewed till tender and put into the soup. Hare Soup. — (No. 241.) An Old Hare, when it is so tough as to defy the teeth in any other form, will make excellent Soup. Cut off the legs and shoulders, and divide the body crossways, stew it x try gently in three cjuarts of water, with two ounces of lean ham or bacon, one carrot, two onions, with four cloves stuck in them, two blades of pounded mace, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till the whole is tender; the time this will take, depends very much upon the age of the hare, and how long it has been kept before it is dressed; as a general rule, say about three hours; when it is ejuite tender, take the meat oft' the back, cut it into small pieces, and lay it aside; cut the rest of llu' meat oft’the legs and shoulders, mince it, pound it in a mortar, with a bit of butter, and rub it through a hair sieve, to make thickening tor the soup; put in the meat of the back, season with a little nutmeg and salt, aimOTIIS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 323 glass of port wine, and a few grains of Cayenne ])epper. Make a dozen and a half of forcemeat l)alls of (No. 379.) Obs.—Cold Roast Hare, will make ex- cellent soup. Chop it in pieces, and stew it in three quarts of water for about an hour, and manage it as in the above receipt; the stuffing of the hare will be a very agreeable substitute for sweet herbs and seasoning. N. B. This Soup may be made with Mock Hare, see (No. 67.*) Soup uithout IVfiter. — (No. 243.) Slice six pounds of lean beef, and the same of veal, put it into a stone jar with a dozen large turnips, peeled, washed, and cut in slices, two onions, and a little salt; cover the jar very close, so that no steam can evaporate, and set it on some hay (to keep the jar steady) in a large saucepan half full of boiling water; keep a kettle of water boiling, to fill this up as it wastes, set it over a slow fire to boil e^ently for five hours; strain your soup throuo-h a silk sieve into a clean stewpan; have ready boiled a carrot, and a turnip, cut neatly into dice; put them into the soup, let them get warm in it, and send up hot, with toasted bread cut into little pieces on a plate. iBROTHS, ORAVITiS, AND SOUI’S. 324 Obs.—This is certainly the very Quintessence of Meat, and “ ne plus ultra” of rapidly-re- storative and immediately-assimilating nourish- ment; but alas! it can only be served, at those tables, where the mistress of the mansion never looks at the Butcher’s Bill. We give the above receipt, because we know many “ Bans VnaiiU’’ and invalids, will thank us for teaching them the art of bringing nourish- ing juices into the body, in their most con- centrated form, without giving the teeth the trouble of chewing, or the stomach the labour of digesting. Those who live too fast, are in equal haste to restore themselves full gallop. See the 106th page of the Rudiments of Cookery. Giblet Soup.—(No. *244.) Scald and clean two sets of Goose, or four sets of Duck giblets, (leaving out the livers,) wash them well in warm water, in two or three waters ; divide the gizzards and necks into month- fuls*, and crack the bones of the legs; put them into a stewpan with three quarts of cold • If the "izzards arc not rut into small pieces, before they are done ennu>;h, the rest of the meat, t^-r. will l)c done too much; and knives and forks, have no business in a soup plate.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 325 water; when they boil, take off the scum as it rises, then set them to stew very gently, till the gizzards are tender; this will take from an hour and a half, to two hours, according to the size and age of the giblets; take them up carefully with a skimmer, or a large spoon full of holes, and put them into the tureen, and cover down close to keep warm till the Soup is ready. Put the liquor they were boiled in on the fire again, with a bundle of common, or lemon-thyme, knotted or sweet marjoram, and winter savory, an onion with four cloves stuck in it, twelve berries of allspice, the same of black pepper, two blades of mace, two shallots cut in half, and two tablespoonsful of mushroom catsup, a glass of wine, and a teaspoonful of salt. Melt an ounce of butter in a quart stewpan, stir in as much flour as will make it into a paste; then ponr to it a ladleful of your giblet liquor, and a tablespoonful of oatmeal; mix it thoroughly together, and pour it into the stewpan that has the giblet liquor in it; stir it well together, and let it simmer gently for an hour longer; strain your soiqi through a taramis into the tureen, and add the giblets to it, and serve up. There should be three quarts of soup. U/m. —Thus managed, a set of Goose giblets, will make a quart, of healthful, nourishing, and V326 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. agreeable Soup: if you think the giblets alone will not make the soup strong enough, you may add a pound of gravy beef, or a scrag of mutton, a cow-heel, or bone of a knuckle of veal, a few leaves of sweet basil, the juice of half a Seville orange or lemon, and half a glass of wine, to each quart of soup. Those who are fond of Forcemeat, may slip the skin off the neck, tie up the end, and fill it with the following stuffing: mince fine some Sage, the yolk of a couple of Eggs boiled hard, a teacupful of bread crumbs moistened with a little milk, a little grated nutmeg, and some pepper and salt, and a raw egg well incorporated together, tie up the other end tight, put them into the soup about half an hour before you take it up. Mock Mock Turtle, as made hy E. Lister, Cook, No. 106, High Street, Mary-le-bone, whom the Editor, wishes to recommend, to those w'ho occasionally hire an assistafit Cook, see (No. 280.) — (No. 245.) Line the bottom of a stewpan that will hold five pints, with an ounce of nice bacon, or ham, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, a cow heel, the inner rind of a quarter of a can'ot, a sprig of lemon-thyme, winter savory.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 327 lltrec times the quantity of parsley, a few green leaves of sweet basil*, and two shallots; make a bundle of these, and tie up in it a couple of blades of mace ; put in a large onion, with four clovest stuck in it, twelve corns of allspice, the same of black pepper; pour on these a quarter pint of cold water, cover your stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to boil gently for a quarter of an hour; then, for fear your meat should catch, take off the cover, and watch it; and when it has got a good brown colour, till up your stewpan with boiling water, and let it simmer very gently for two hours ; if you wish to have the full benefit of your meat, only stew it till it is just tender, and cut it into mouthfuls, and put it into your soup. Put a tablespoonful of the thickening, (No. 257,) into a two-quart • To this fine aromatic herb, the Turtle is much in- debted for the spicy flavour it imparts to the Soup, and the high esteem it is held in by all good citizens of Lon- don, who, I believe, are pretty generally of the same opinion as Dr. Salmon. See his “ Household Uictionarij, and Essay on Cookery," London, 8vo. 1710, page 34, article ‘ basil.’ “ This comforts the heart, expels me- lancholy, and cleanses the lungs,” See(No. 3y7.) t Bury the cloves within the body of the onion, to save your tammis or sieve from being torn by the sharp points of the cloves, when you strain your sauce. F F 2328 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS'. stewpan, pour to it a ladleful of your gravy, and stir it quick till it is well mixed, pour it back into the stewpan where your gravy is, and let it simmer gently for half an hour longer, then strain it through a tammis into a gallon stewpan; cut the cow-heel into pieces about an inch square, squeeze through a sieve the juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of plain browning, the same of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of ground black pepper, as much grated nutmeg as will lie on a sixpence, and a glass of Madeira or sherry wine ; let it all simmer together for about half an hour. Forcemeat and egg balls may be added if you please ; you will find a receipt for these under the article forcemeat, (Nos. 380, &c.) A pound of Veal Cutlets, cut into pieces about an inch square, and half an inch thick, and rounded and trimmed neatly from all skin, gristle, i§-c. and stewed till they are tender, will be a great addition. The above excellent soup costs only eighteen pence a quart. s. d. One pound and a half of gravy beef 1 0 Cow lied 0 7 Roots and Herbs, S^ c 0 3 Butter and flour 0 .JBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 329 r F 3 S. (1. Jf'ine 0 6 Hal/' a lemon 0 1 Bacon 0 4 Two quarts cost only-••’3 0 Mock Turtle, as made by M. Birch, one of Apicius's Assistants in this Work.— (No. 246.) Take two pounds of gravy-beef, with a small knuckle of veal, about 31bs ; chop the bone, and cut the beef in thin slices; put it into a gallon stewpan, with half a pint of water, a slice of lean ham or bacon, one turnip, one carrot, three onions, with four cloves stuck in one, a tea- spoonful of black pepper, the same of allspice, a bundle of sweet herbs; put it over a slow fire till it is of a light brown, but be very careful it does not burn; then put to it two quarts of boiling water, let it simmer for two hours, then strain it off*, and put two quarts more; simmer it for three hours longer, strain it off, and set it by till next day; boil half a calf’s head with the skin on, three quarters of an hour; when cold, cut the meat off in small square pieces, * N. B. This will make excellent Gravy Sauce, .ic. for the rest of your dinner.330 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUTS. and set them by, and put the bones and trim- mings of the head into the veal broth. To thicken your soup, put an ounce of butter into a stewpan; as soon as it is melted, mix two tablespoonsful of flour with it, stirring it over the fire a few minutes; then mix the gravy with it by degrees; as soon as it boils, mix three tablespoonsful of oatmeal with cold water, and put to the soup ; let it boil for ten minutes, strain it, and put it into the stewpan again with the meat, and a roll of lemon-peel; simmer it for an hour and a half, or two hours, till the meat is sufficiently tender, and finish your soup w'ith seasoning it with two glasses of wine, half a glass of catsup, and the like quantity of lemon juice, and a small tablespoonful of essence of anchovy. Obs, — The above is most excellent, and was eaten wuth unanimous and perfect approbation by the “ Committee of Taste,” (vide Preface,) who ordered it to be printed, as well as the following receipt, which exhibits all the vari- ations of seasoning, &c. Mock 'ruRTLE. — (No. 247.) This is the dish, says “ le Grand Cuisinicr Imperial dc France," which “ le ehef OfHeier dc331 BUOrilS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. Bouclie d’Angleterre" prepares, when he attempts to rival the French Cookery. Endeavour to get the head and the broth ready for the soup*, the day before you want it. Get a calf’s head with the skin oit, take out the brains, and wash the head several times in cold water, put it into about eight cpiarts of hot water, let it boil an hour; take it up, and cut the head and tongue into moutlifuls, and set them by on a dish. Now put about two ounces of butter into a two gallon stewpan, fiien lay in half a pound of ham, cut into slices, and three large onions cut in half; chop a knuckle of veal or shin of beef into pieces and lay them on the ham, then put in a ])int of the liquor the calf’s head was boiled in, cover the stewpan, and set it over a {piick fire till all the li([uor has boiled away, and the meat begins to stick to the bottom of the pan, and has got a little brown, stir it all up, aud then fill up the stewpan with the liquor in which the call’s head was boiled ; when it boils, and you have skimmed it well, put in two carrots, two turnips, two heads of celery, eight cloves, a quarter of an ounce, avoirdupois weight of eschallots, cut in half, * Tliose wliu do not like tlie tioiih’e, No. of inakiii;' Mock Turtle, may be sii|)plied willi it ready made, in liigli perfection, at lUutn’s in Ceriiliill. See note at tire foot of pai;c 1-'.'.332 BROTHS, guavxbS, and soups, and a bundle of equal parts of winter savory and lemon-thyme, about half that quantity of sweet basil*, and twice the quantity of par- sley; so that when tied up all together, their stems are at least as big as your wrist; put in a quarter of an ounce of allspice, same of tvhole black pepper, a drachm of Cayenne, and the trimmings and bones of the calf's headf; cover it close, and let it stew gently for about four hours, (there should be five quarts of soup when it is finished;) and strain it off. To Thicken it, put about six ounces of butter into a clean stewpan; when it is melted, gra- dually stir in half a dozen woodenspoonsful of Hour, rub it up well and moisten it with a ladle- ful of your Soup liquor, add to it three table- spoonsful of oatmeal, and mix all well together, till they are smoothly united, then add the , remainder by degrees, stirring it all the while till thoroughly incorporated ; (if it is at all lumpy, pass it through a sieve;) let it stew half an hour longer, taking off the skum as it rises, then strain it through a tammis into a clean stewpan, * (No. 3'.17') will iniprcgimte your Soup witli tiif Hasil tlavoiir at very modenite cost, when f'rcsli Ba.«il is extravagantly dear. t The addition of a couple of Calf’s feet, or a Cow heel, will render the Soup still more riehly gelatinous.BUOTHSj GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 33.1 put in the head and tongue*, and let it simmer gently till the meat is tender, (taking care it is not oierdone.) Now Season it with three tablespoons- ful of Lemon .luice, same of Mushroom Catsup, (No. 439,) and two of Essence of Anchovy, (No. 433,) half a pint of Wine, two tcaspoonsful of Curry Powder, (No. 455,) half a saltspoonful of Cayenne, and the peel of a Lemon pared as thin as possible; let it simmer five minutes more, take out the Lemon Peel, and your Soup is ready for the Tureen; and the most profound Pala- ticians have pronounced it to be a very satisfac- tory substitute for “ the far fetcht and dear bought” Turtle; which itself is indebted for its Title of “ Sovereign of Savouriness,” to the rich soup w'ith which it is surrounded; without its paraphernalia of double relishes, a “ STARTED TURTLE," has nut more intrinsic sapi- dity than a “ FAITEI) CALF.” See Es- sence of Turtle, (No. 343.*) and Obs. to (No. 493.) While the Soup is doing, prepare for each ' tureen, a dozen and a half of Mock turtle force- meat balls, (to make these, see (No. 375,) or (No. 390,) to (No. 396,) and a dozen Egg balls ; and put them into the tureen.) Brain iiali.s. * Or make a Side Disli of the ToNtiiir:, wiili 'he r.KAiNS chopped with some sage leaves, .see (No- i".) t See Ba.sil Wine (No. .‘397,') and Kssence ol Tui lle, ' No. .'343.*)334 BROTII&, GRAVIES, AKD SOURS. dr cakes, are a very elegant addition, and are made by boiling the brains for ten minutes, then put them in cold water, and cutting them into pieces about as big as a large nutmeg; take Savory, or Lemon-thyme dried and finely pow- dered, nutmeg grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them all together; beat up an egg, dip the brains in it, and then roll them in this mix- ture, and make as much of it as possible, stick to them, dip them in the egg again, and then in finely grated and sifted bread crumbs, fry them in hot fat, and put them into the Soup the last thing. A VEAL SWEETBREAD, prepared as in (No. 89,) (not too much done or it will break) cut into pieces the same size as you cut the calf’s head, and put in the soup, just to get warm before it goes to table, is a most superb Bonne BoucJieand Pickled tongue, cut into mouthfuls, is a favoui-ite addition with some cooks. We order the meat to be cut into Mouthfuls, that it may be eaten with a spoon; t/ic knife and fork Jiaie no business in a soup plate. Some of our eulinary coteinpornries, order the lldut-gout of this (as above directed, sufficiently relishing,) Soup to be combustibled and bc-devilled, iiith a copious addition of anchovies, nnishrooins, truffles, morells, Curry-poxeder, artichoke bottoms, salmons' heads and livers, oysters pounded, or lobsters and soles cut into mouthfuls, a bottle of Madeira, a /lint oj brandy, Spc., and to complete their surfeitingBKOTllS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 2?>5 unci burn-gullet Olio, they put in such a tremendous quantity of Cayenne pepper, that no palate, that has not been educated in the Indies, can endure it. N. B. In helping this soup, it will not bo amiss to notice^ that the distributor of it, should portion out the meat, forcemeat and gravy, in equal parts; however trifling, or needless this remark may appear, the writer has often suffered from the want of such a hint being given to the soup-server; who has sometimes sent a plate of mere gravy without meat; at others, of meat without gravy, and sometimes scarcely anything but forcemeat balls. Obs.—This is a most delicious and nutritious soup, and within reach of those who “ eat to live but if it had been composed expressly for those who only “ live to eat,” I do not know how it could have been made more agreeable; as it is, the lover of good eating will “ wish his throat a mile long, and every inch of it palate.” English Turtle Soup. — (No. 248.) See (No. 502.) “ Alamode Beef.” Mullaga-Tawu^ Soup. — (No. 249.) Take two quarts of water, and boil a nice33(i BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS, fowl or chicken, then put in the following in- gredients, a large white onion, a large chilly *, two teaspoonsful of ginger pounded, the same of currystufF, one teaspoonful of turmeric, and half a teaspoonful of black pepper; boil all these for half an hour, and then fry some small onions, and put them in. Season it with salt, and serve it up in a tureen. Obs. — It will be a great improvement, when the fowl is about half boiled, to take it up and cut it into pieces, and fry them and put them into the soup the last thing. Turtle Soup.— (No. 2o0.) The following receipt for dressing this richest and most delicious dish, is the present practice of an experienced French cook, a consummate master of the art, in his own words. “ The best size for taste, is from 60 to 80 [)Ounds; this will make 6 or 8 tureens of fine soup. Kill the turtle the evening before you wish to dress it; tie a cord to the hind fins of the turtle, and hang it up with the head down- wards ; tie the fore fins by way of pinioning them, it would otherwise beat itself, and be • 'I hc pod ofwliich Cajeniu' pepper is made.BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS^ 337 troublesome to tlie executioner; take the head with your left hand, and with a sharp knife cut otf the neck as near the head as possible ; there is a joint where the knife will pop through without any force. Have one or two lai-ge tubs of water ready, and when you dissect your turtle, put it on a block on the back shell, slip your knife between the calliopee and the cal- liopash; 1 mean between the breast and the edge of the back shell: when the knife has been round, and the breast is detached from the back shell, pass your fingers underneath, and with your knife detach the breast from the fins, always keeping the edge of your knife on the side of the breast, otherwise it may happen you may break the gall, which is very large, and if broken, your turtle is spoiled. Cut the breast into four pieces, next take away the guts, be- ginning by the liver, and cut away the gall, to be out of danger at once. The guts are to be thrown away. I have seen some cooks have them cleaned and cut in pieces, and put into the soup, but generally they are left on the gentlemen’s plates; a basin of turtle is con- sidered a treat, consequently it should be so dressed that none be left on the plate or basin. VV'hcn your turtle is emptied, throw the heai't, liver, kidneys, and lights, into water, cut away o 0 'I338 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. the fins to the root, I mean as near to the back shell as possible, next cut the fins in the second joint, that the white meat may be separated from the green; scrape the fat that sticks against the back shell, or calliopash, take it like as if you was skimming any thing, and put it aside. Cut the calliopash into four pieces. Set a large turbot pan on the fire, and when it boils dip a fin into it for a minute, then take it out and peel it very clean; when that is done, take another, and so on till all are done; then the head, next the shell and breast, piece by piece. Be careful to have the peel and shell entirely cleaned off, then put in the same pan some clean water, with the breast and back, the four fins, and the head; let it boil till the bones will leave the meat; put with it a large faggot of turtle herbs as big as your two fists, four bay-leaves, and some thyme. If you mean to make two dishes of the fins, you must take them away when they have been boiled one hour. Put in a small stewpan, the liver, lights, heart, and kidneys, and the fat you have put aside; take some of the liquor that the other part has been boiled in; cover your stewpan close, and let it boil gently for three hours. Clean the bones, and breast, and back, fromBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 339 the green fat, and cut it into pieces an inch long, and half an inch wide; do not lose any, as the little bits are as good as the large ones; besides, it would be very difficult to cut it all of the same size. Put all these pieces on a dish in your larder till your broth is ready. To make your broth, put on a large stock-pot, and line the bottom of it with a pound and a half of lean ham, cut into slices. Cut into pieces a leg of veal of sixteen or twenty pounds weight, except a pound of the fillet that you save for the forcemeat, put the rest upon the ham, with all the white meat of the turtle, and a couple of old fowls; put it on a smart fire, with two ladiesful of broth or consomme; let it reduce to a glaze; when it begins to stick to the bottom, pour the liejuor in which the turtle has been boiled into the pot where the other part of the turtle has been boiled, add to it a little more sweet herbs, twenty-four grains of allspice, six blades of mace, two large onions, four carrots, half an ounce of whole pepper, and some salt, let it simmer for four hours, and then strain the broth through a cloth sieve. Put the green part of the turtle that has been cut in pieces, and nicely cleaned, with two bottles of Madeira in the same: when it has boiled a few minutes with your turtle, add to G G 3340 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. it the broth, then put in a stewpan half a pound of butter, when it is melted, add to it four woodenspoonsful of flour, stir it on the fire till the flour is a fine brown colour, then pour some of your broth with it, mix it well, and strain it in your soup through a hair sieve : cut your liver, lights, heart, kidneys, and fat into small square pieces, and put them into your soup, with half a teaspoonful of Cayenne, two of curry powder, and four tablespoonsful of essence of anchovies ; let it boil for an hour and a half, carefully skimming off the fat. Pound your veal in a marble mortar for the Forcemeat, and rub it through a hair sieve with as much of the udder of your leg of veal as you have meat, put some bread crumbs into a stewpan, with milk enough to wet it, with a little chopped parsley and shallot, dry it on the fire, rub it through the wire sieve, and when cold, mix all together, that every part may be equally blended. Boil six eggs hard, take the yolks and pound them with the other ingredients, season it with salt, pepper, Cayenne, and a little curry-powder, add to it three raw eggs, and mix ail well together; make small balls of your forcemeat the bigness of a pigeon’s egg. Ten minutes before your soup is ready put your forceballs in, and continue to scum your soupBROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. 341 till you take it off the fire. If your turtle weighs eighty pounds, it requires very near three bottles of Madeira. When you dish your turtle, squeeze two lemons in each tureen; many persons like to have some eggs boiled hard, and a dozen of the yolks put in each tureen, which I think is very good. Turtle Fins. If you have some brown sauce, you put in a stewpan five large spoonsful of it, with a bottle of Port wine, and a pottle of mushrooms ; when your sauce boils, put your four fins in; after having taken away all the small bones that are seen breaking through the skin, put with it a faggot of a few sprigs of parsley, a bit of thyme, one bay-leaf, and four cloves, and let it simmer one hour: ten minutes before you dish, put five dozen of button onions that you have ready peeled: when you dish, put in each dish a hind fin and a fore one, and look if it is salt enough Uy^^'' Broun sauce, put in a steu- van a quarter of a pound of butter; when it is melted, put to it two wooden spoonsful of flour, stir it on the fre till it gets a hazel colour, pour a bottle of Port wine in it, a ladleful of broth, and, G G 3342 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. ■when it boils, do as btfore-mentioned, and scum it well. This receipt is from the same source as the preceding one, and is an excellent and highly finished soup. Have a calf’s head scalded with the skin on, cut it in two, take out the brain, and wash your head well; when well cleaned, tie it up in a cloth, and let it boil till it is tender, then take it out, and let it cool till you want it. Have a pound of lean ham cut in slices, range them to the bottom of a stockpot, or braising kettle; cut two knuckles of veal into pieces, put them over your ham, put a ladleful of broth or water in your stock-pot, and set it over a brisk fire ; when the meat begins to stick to the bottom, cover your meat with water; when it has been skimmed well, put two carrots, two onions, three bay-leaves, four cloves, three blades of mace, a large faggot of turtle herbs, and some salt; let it boil four hours; your broth must be reduced to six or seven quarts; strain your broth through a tammis sieve, then put in a stewpan three ounces of butter, let it melt, then put to it two wooden spoonsful of flour, •.itir it till it is the colour of a hazel nut, then Mock (No. 251.)343 HKOTIIS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. pour in a bottle of Madeira wine, mix it well, then pour in your broth, and stir it till it boils, put in three tablespoonsful of essence of an- chovies, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and half a teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper; skim it well. Now cut your calf’s head, take only the skin, the ears, the eyes, and the tongue, all about an inch long, and half an inch wide; do not put any other meat but what is mentioned, as any other part of the head, if put with this, would go to pieces, and spoil the look of your soup; make some forcemeat balls, as mentioned in the preceding receipt for turtle; let them simmer ten minutes. When ready to dish, squeeze two lemons in each tureen; send it up as hot as possible. Portable Soup, or Glaze. — (No. 252.) Break the bones of a shin of beef, and a small knuckle of veal, put them into a soup- pot that will hold four gallons of water, just cover your meat with water and set it on the fire to beat gradually till it nearly boils; watch it, and skim it attentively while any scum rises, pour in a quart of cold water, to make it throw iq> all the scum that may remain, let it come344 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS. to a boil again, and again skim it carefully; when no more scum rises, and the broth ap- pears clear, put in what herbs or spice you please, but no salt; let it boil very gently for eight hours, strain it through a hair sieve into a large brown stone-pan; skim off all the grease before you put it by, and set it where it will cool quickly; next day remove the cake of fat from the top of it, and pour it as quietly as possible into a stewpan, (taking care not to let any of the settlings at the bottom of the stonepan go into the stewpan; this ansvvers better than straining it;) let it boil as fast as possible, with the stewpan uncovered, on a quick fire: if any scum rises, take it off with a skimmer; now watch it all the time till it begins to thicken; then run in through a tammis into a small stewpan ; set it over a gentler fire, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is reduced to the thickness of a very thick syrup ; take the utmost care that it does not burn; (a moment's inattention now will lose you all your labour, and the soup will be spoiled:) have ready some little preserving pots, let them he quite dry, pour the soup into them*. When • You will get a pint of excellent broth by washing out the stewpan with a pint of boiling water.lUlOTHS, OKAVIES, AND SOUPS. 345 cold, it will be of the consistence of a thick hard glue, and will keep good for many months, if it is put in a cool dry place. Damp will soon destroy it. Ots. — The uses of this concentrated Essence of Meat are numerous. As a general keeping stock, it is the most convenient basis for making extempore broths, soups, gravies, and sauces. To make a pint of broth, pour a pint of boiling water on a piece of the soup, about as big as a small walnut, stir it till it is melted, add a little salt, and the broth is ready ; if you have time and opportunity, if there is no seasoning- in the soup, either of herbs or spice, it will be a great improvement to boil a bit of parsley and thyme, and half a dozen corns of black pepper or allspice, in the water you melt the soup in : this will produce you as good a broth as need be, or you may add a teaspoonful of (No. 429,) or (No. 402,) or (No. 439.) An ounce of portable soup, melted in a quart of water, is just the same thing as the quart of gravy was before it was so boiled away into portable soup. N.B. If you are a careful manager, you need seldom purchase meat, on purpose to make this, as when you dress a large dinner, you make good glaze at very small cost, by taking care 1346 BROTHS, GRAVIES, AND SOUPS, of all the trimmings and parings of the meat, game and poultry you are going to use; wash them well, and put them into a stewpan and cover them with cold water, and proceed as in the above receipt; and see Obs. on (No. 185.) To Clarify Broth or Gravy. — (No. 252.*) Put on the broth in a clean stewpan, break the white and shell of an egg, beat them together, put them into the broth when it is coming to a boil, stir it very quick with a whisk; when it has boiled a few minutes, strain it through a tainmis or a clean napkin. Obs. — A steady careful Cook, will seldom have occasion to clarify her Broths, &c. if prepared accordiner to the directions tfiven in (No, 200.)THE COOK’S ORvVCLE. GRAVIES AND SAUCES, Melted Butter Ari’EAUs to be so simple ami easy to ])repare, it is certainly very surprising it is not uniformly well made, and is a matter of general astonish- ment, that what is done so often in every English kitchen, is so seldom done right. Fo- reigners, say we have only one Sauce for Vegetables, Fish, Flesh, Foul, &c., and that, we hardly ever make good. It is .spoiled 7iine times out of ten, inore from idleness than from ignorance, and rather because the cook won’t do it, than because she can’t do it, which can only be the case when the hon.se- keeper will not allow butler to do it with:348 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. for be it known to frugal and economical housewives, that good melted butter cannot be made with mere flour and water; there must be a full and proper proportion of butter. As it must be always on the table, and is the foun- dation of almost all our English sauces, I have tried every way of making it, and I trust, at last, I have written two receipts, which if the Cook will carefully observe, she will constantly succeed in giving satisfaction. In the quantities of the various sauces I have ordered, I have had in view the providing for a moderate family of half a dozen people. I recommend the Cook never to pour sauce over the meat, or even to put it into the dish; for, however well made, some of the company may have an antipathy to it; Tastes are as different as Faces; moreover, if it is sent up separate in a boat, it will keep hot longer, and what is left of it may be put by for another time, or used for another purpose. Lastly, observe, that in ordering the pro- portions of Meat, Butter, Wine, Spice, &c. in the following receipts, the proper quantity is set down, and that a less quantity will not do; and in some instances, those who are fond of the extreme oi piquance, will require an addition. If we have erred, it has been on the right side, Irom an anxious wish to combine economy withGUAVIES AND SAUCES. 349 elegance, and the toothsome, with the whole- some. The following: we recommend as an elegant Relish to finish Soups and Sauces. Sec (No. 336.) ; This exiiuisitely piquunte aiul savoury quintessence of Ragout, imparts to what- : ever it touches the most delicious and j highly llavourcd relish ever imagined, to awaken the palate with delight, refresh appetite, and instantly excite the good hu- ; mour of (every man’s master) the Stomach. Invented by the Editor; and sold by the ' 1 Publisher of this work, No. 190, Piccadilly; | at Butler’s hcrbshop, opposite Henrietta i Street, Covent Garden; and by Ball, i oilman, &c. 81, New Bond Street. For Chops, Sauces, AND Made Dishes. (No. £55.) II I350 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Melted Blitter.— (IS o. 256.) Keep a pint stewpan for this purpose only. Cut two ounces of butter into little bits, that it may melt more easily, and mix more readily; put it into the stewpan with a large teaspoonful (i. e. three drachms) of flour, and a tablespoon- ful of milk. When well mixed, add three tablespoonsful of water; hold it over the fire, and shake it, (all the while the same way,) till it just boils up; then pass it through a sieve to ensure its being quite smooth. It will be of the thickness, and look, and taste like good cream. Obs. — This, we think, is incomparably the best way of preparing melted butter; as the milk mixes with the butter much more easily, and more intimately than water alone can be made to do. This is of proper thickness to be mixed at table with Flavouring essences, catsup, or cavice, &c. If made merely to pour over vegetables, add a little more milk to it, or use only two drachms of flour. Thickening. —(No. 257.) Clarified butter is best for this purpose; but if you have none ready, put some fresh butter into a stewpan over a slow clear fire; when itOUAVIES AND SAUCES. 351 lb melted, add fine flour sufficient to make it the thickness of paste ; stir it well together with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, till it is quite smooth, and the colour of a guinea ; pour it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and a month in winter. A large spoonful will generally be enough to thicken a quart of gravy. Ohs. — This in the French kitchen is called Roux. Be particularly attentive to the making of it; if it gets any burnt smell or taste, it will spoil every thing it is put into. When cold, it should be thick enough to cut out with a knife, like a solid paste. It is a very essential article in the kitchen, and is the basis of con- sistency in most made dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts: if the gravies, &c. are too thin, add this thickening, more or less, according to the consistence you would wish them to have. In making thickening, the less butter, and the more flour you use the better; they should be thoroughly worked together, and the broth, or soup, &c. you put them to, added by degrees; take especial care to incorporate them well together, or your sauces, &c. will taste floury, and have a disgusting, greasy appearance ; tlicrefore, after you have thickened your sauce, II II 2GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 352 add to it some broth, or warm water, in the proportion of two tablespoonsful to a pint, and set it by the side of the fire, to raise any fat, &c. that is not thoroughly incorporated with the gravy, which you must carefully remove as it comes to the top. This is called cleansing, or finishing the sauce. Half an ounce of butter, and a iablespoovfiil oi' flour, are about the proportions for a pint of sauce, to make it as thick as good cream. Savoury Thickening. — (No. 258.) Put a quarter of a pound of Butter into a stewpan with the meat of half a dozen Ancho- vies, three minced shallots, and four large blades of pounded Mace; stir together, and by degrees add as much Flour as will make it a stiff paste; put it into a pot to heighten the flavour of your Brown Sauces. Obs.—The cook will vary the spices, &c. according to the taste of those she works for. Clarified Butter. — (No. 259 ) Put the Butter in a nice clean stewpan, over a very clear slow fire, watch it, and when it is melted, carefully skim off the buttermilk, &c. which will swim on the top; let it stand aGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 353 minute or two for the impurities to sink to the l)Ottom, and then pour the clear butter through a sieve, into a clean basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the stewpan. Obs. — Butter thus purified, will be as sweet as any Marrow, and is a very useful covering for all potted meats and fish, and equal to the finest Lucca oil for frying fish, &c. Burnt Butter.—(No. 2G0.) Put two ounces of fresh butter into a small fryingpan, when it becomes a dark brown colour, add to it a tablespoonful and a half of good vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Obs.—This is used as sauce for boiled Fish, or poached Eggs. Oiled Butter. — (No. 260.*) Put two ounces of fresh butter into a sauce- pan, set it at a distance from the fire, so that it may melt gradually, till it comes to an oil, and pour it off quietly from the dregs. Obs.—This will supply the place of Olive oil, and hy some Epicures is preferred to it, either for Salads, or Frying. IJ H 3GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 354 Farshy and Butter. — (No. 26l.) Wash some parsley very clean, pick it care- fully leaf by leaf, and put a teaspoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, and boil the parsley two or three minutes, drain it on a sieve, and mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent Relish depends upon the parsley being minced very very fine ; put it into a sauce boat, and mix with it by degrees about half a pint of good melted butter, (No. 256,) only do not put so much flour to it, as the parsley will add to its thickness. Obs.—This, with the addition of the juice of half a lemon, is in Foreign Cookery books generally called “ Dutch Sauce.” Mock Parsley Sauce. — (No. 262.) If you cannot get any parsley, you may easily communicate the flavour of it to your sauce, by tying up half a drachm of parsley seed in a piece of clean muslin, and boiling it for ten minutes in five tablespoonsful of water; use this water to melt your butter with; this will impose on the Palate; to cheat the Eye, parboil a little spinage, and chop it fine, and stir it into melted butter.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 3.55 Goosebevrif Sauce. — (No. 263.) Boil half a pint of green Gooseberries for Hve minutes, drain them on a hair sieve, and put them into half a pint of melted butter. Some add grated Ginger; and the French, minced Fennel. Chervil and Butter. — (No. 264.) This is the first time this very delicious herb, which has so long been a favourite with the sagacious French cook, has been introduced into an English book. Its flavour is a strong concentration of the combined taste of Parsley and Fennel, but more aromatic and agreeable than either; and is so excellent a sauce with boiled Poultry or Fish, I cannot account for its being so little known in the English kitchen. You may make most exquisite sauce with it by preparing it, &c. as we have directed for Parsley and butter. Obs. — Drs. Lewis and Aitken are most respectable and well-accredited writers on che- mistry, &c. and I trust those, who feel “ I’csprit ilu corps,” will forgive me, for saying they l)Hve written also like men of taste on culinary subjects, as the following quotation from their Materia Medica, 8vo. London, 1791, vol. i. pageGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 356 319, will testify. See cherefolium or chervil. “ It is a salubrious culinary herb, sufficiently grateful, both to the palate and stomach.” Fennel and Butter, for Mackarel, S;c. (No. 265.) Is prepared in the same manner as we have just described the parsley and butter. Obs. — For mapharel sauce, or boiled soles, &c. some people take equal parts of fennel and parsley; others add a sprig of mint, or a couple of young onions minced very fine. Mackarel Roe Sauce. —(No. 266.) Boil the roes of mackarel, (soft roes are best,) bruise them with a spoon with the yolk of an egg, beat up with a very little pepper, and salt, and some fennel and parsley boiled and chopped very fine, mixed with almost half a pint of thin melted butter, see (No. 256.) Mushroom catsup, walnut pickle, or soy, may be added at table by those who like them. Egg Sauce. — (No. 267.) This agreeable accompaniment to roast poul- try, or salt fish, is made by putting three357 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. e^gs into boiling water, and boiling them for ten minutes, when they will be hard; use only two of the whites; first cut the whites, then the yolks, into bits about a quarter of an inch square, put them into a sauce-boat, pour to them half a pint of melted butter, and stii- together. Obs.—The melted butter for egg sauce need not be made quite so thick as plain melted butter. N.B. Some Cooks garnish Salt Fish with two or three eggs cut in half. Pudding Sauce.— (No. 268.) Bruise a stick of genuine Cinnamon, (cassia will not do,) set it over the fire in a saucepan, with just as much water as will cover it, give it a boil, and then put in a couple of table- spoonsful of fine lump sugar powdered, a quarter of a pint of white wine, a roll thin pared lemon-peel, and a bay-leal; boil all up together; strain it through a sieve, and send it up hot in a sauceboat. See Pudding Catsup (No. 446.) P/um Pudding Sauce. — (No. 269.) A glass of slierry, lialf a glass of brandy, (or358 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. “ Cherry-Bounce”) and two teaspoonsful ol' pounded lump sugar, in a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter: grate nutmeg on the top. Anchovy Sauce. — (No. 270.) Take off the meat of two or three anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a little bit of Butter, rub them through a double hair sieve, with the back of a wooden spoon, and stir them into half a pint of melted butter,, see (No. 256;) or, stir a tablespoonful of Essence of Anchovy, see (No. 433) into half a pint of melted butter, (No. 256.) Ohs. — Foreigners make this Sauce with good beef or veal gravy instead of melted butter, frequently adding to it some of their flavoured vinegars, as Elder or Tarragon, Pepper and fine Spice, Sweet herbs. Capers, Eshallots, &c. They serve it with most roast meats* Garlick Sauce. — (No. 272.) Pound two cloves of Garlick in a marble mortar, with a piece of fresh butter about as big as a nutmeg; rub it through a double hair sieve, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter, or beef gravy, or make it with Garlick Vinegar, see (No. 400,) and (Nos. 401 and 402.)GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 359 Lemon Sauce.— (No. 273.) Pare a lemon, and cut it into slices twice as thick as a half-crown piece; divide these into dice, and put them into a quarter of a pint of melted butter. Obs. — Some Cooks mince a bit of the Lemon Peel (pared very thin) very Jine, and add it to the above. Caper Sam&. — (No. 274.) To make a quarter pint, take a tablespoonful of Capers, and two teaspoonsful of Vinegar. The most elegant manner of cutting Capers, is to miuce one third of them very fine, and divide the others in half; put them into a quarter of a pint of melted butter. Remember to stir them the same way as you did the melted butter, or it will oil. Obs. — Some boil, and mince fine a few leaves of Parsley, and qdd these to the sauce; others squeeze in a quarter of a Seville orange, or half a lemon; take care that nothing but tho clear juice goes in. Keep your Caper bottle very closely corked, and do not use any of the Caper liquor; if the capers are not well covered with it, they will soon spoil, and it is an excellent ingredient iriGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 360 hashes, &c. The Dutch use it as a Fish sauce, mixing it with melted butter. Mock Caper Sauce. — (No. 275.) Cut some pickled gherkins into bits, about as big as capers; put them into half a pint of melted butter, with two teaspoonsful of lemon juice, or nice vinegar, and flavour it with a small teaspoonful of essence of shallots or gar- lick, see (Nos. 400, 401, and 402.) Dutch Sour Sauce, for Fish,—(No. 276.) Beat up the yolks of two eggs, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, two blades of mace, and a tablespoonful of elder vinegar, or the same quantity of lemon juice; melt over a gentle fire, stirring the ingredients together all the while the same way, stirring in gradually a quarter pint of the water the fish was boiled in. Cream Sauce, for Fish. — (No. 277.) Put the meat of two Anchovies pounded will) a bit of butter, and rubbed through a sieve, one teaspoonful of Soy, or two of Mushroom catsup, into half a pint of good cream, in which.361 0UAVIE3 AND SAUCES. I’ilh down a teaspoonful of flour to thicken it, and give it a boil. Ohs. — This is a very delicate and delicious sauce, and where good cream can he easily procured, much preferable to the butter sauces. Oi/ster Sauce. — (No. 278.) Choose Plump and Juicy Natives for this purpose; and don’t open them till you uant them, see Ohs. to (No. 181.) Save their liquor, shave them, take away the gristly part, and put them into a stewpan over the fire with the beards and liquor; as soon as they begin to look plunq) and white, take them from the fire, strain the liquor, and put to it a spoonful of veal gravy or milk; (some add six berries of black pepper, the juice of half a roll of the peel of a lemon, and most think it much improved by a little soy or catsup, or essence of anchovy, or a bit of mace:) let this simmer for ten minutes, then strain it through a fine sieve, and let it stand till cold; then put two ounces of butter into a stewpan with two teaspoonsful of fine flour, mix vour liquor by degrees with it, put milk or cream, to make the (piantity you wish, give it a lioil ii|), and put in only the soft part of the oysters;GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 362 set them by the side of the fire to keep hot; take care they do not boil, or they will become hard. N. B. Cream is much better than melted butter to make this sauce. Obs,—It will very much heighten the flavour of your sauce, to pound the soft part of four oysters, and rub it through a hair sieve, and then stir it into the sauce: this Essence or Oyster is much better than any of the other additions usually employed to increase the piquance of this sauce. See (No. 441.) Bottled Oijster Sauce. — (No. 280.) To make half a pint of sauce, put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, with three drachms of Oyster powder, two drachms of flour, and almost half a pint of new milk; set it on a slow fire, stir it till it boils, and season it with salt. The Oyster powder is made with Milton oysters, prepared by a peculiar process, which preserves the flavour of the fish in as delicate perfection as when first opened. If closely corked, and kept in a dry place, they will remain good for years. Made tiy E. Lister, late Cook to Dr. Kitciiinek, and sold at No. 106, HigliGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 363 Street, Mary-le-bone, see (No. 245,) by the Publisher of this Work, and by Messrs. Balls, 81, New Bond Street. Obs. — This extract, is a most incomparable snccedaneum, while Oysters are out of season, and in such inland parts as seldom have any, is an invaluable addition to the list of tish sauces ; it is also equally good with boiled fowl or rump steak, and is especially worthy the notice of country housekeepers—and as a Store Sauce for the Army and Navy. Cockle Sauce.—(No. 281.) Wash a quart of cockles very clean, put them into a saucepan without any water, cover them close, and stew gently till they open; take the fish out of the shells, wash them in the liquor, strain it, let it stand to settle, and pour the clean liquor from the settlings into a clean stewpan with two ounces of butter, mixed with a tablespoonful of flour; you may put in half a tablespoonful of anchovy liquor, or mushroom catsup, and season it with salt; boil up together till your sauce is thick and smooth. Muscle Sauce — (No. 282.) Is prepared exactly in the same manner as llie preceding Cockle sauce.364 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Shrimp Sauce.—(No. 2S3.) Shell a quarter pint of Shrimps, pick them clean, wash them, and put them into half a pint of good melted butter. Obs.—Some stew the heads and shells of the Shrimps, (with or without two blades of bruised mace,) for a quarter of an hour in four tablespoonsful of water, and strain off the liquor to melt the buttbr with, or add two teaspoonsful of essence of Anchovy to it, or Soy, Cavice, &c. Lobster Sauce. — (No. 284.) Choose a good Hen Lobster*, be sure it is fresh, so get a live one if you can, and boil it as in (No. 176,) pick out the spawn into a mortar, add to it half an ounce of butter, pound it quite smooth, and then rub it through a fine hair sieve with the hack of a wooden “ You nuist have a Hen Lobster, on account of the live spawn, wliicli some Fishmongers have a cruel custom of tearing from the fish, before they are boiled ; lift up tlie tail of the Lobster, and see that it has not been roblied of its F.ggs; for the goodness of your sauce depends upon its having a full share of the spawn in it, to which it owes not merely its brilliant Red Colour, but the finest part of its flavour is from the eggs.36.5 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. spoon; cut the meat of the lobster into small squares, or pull it to pieces with a fork ; break the chine in pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the inside of the fish, and a pint of water; let it simmer till it is reduced to about half, (this will take near an hour,) strain it through a sieve into another stewpan; when it is cold, add to it, the spawn you have bruised, an ounce of butter, and two teaspoonsful of flour; mix it well together, and set it on the fire till it is very hot, and looks perfectly smooth; if not smooth pass it through a sieve, now put to it the meat of the lobster; warm it on the fire again, take care it does not boil, or its brilliant red colour will immediately fade. Some who are fond of making this sauce very rich, use strong beef or veal gravy instead of melted butter, adding anchovies, spices, catsup, cavice, lemon juice or pickle, or wine to it. Obs. — Save a little of the inside Red Coral Spawn, and rub it through a sieve (without butter); it is a very ornamental garnish to sprinkle over your fish; and if the skin of the breast of your fish is broken, (which will sometimes happen, to the most careful Cook, wlien there is a large dinner to dress, and many other things to attend to,) you will find I 1 3366 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. it a convenient and elegant veil, to conceal your misfortune from the prying eyes of the piscivorous Gourmands. Sauce for Lobster, 4'c.—(No. 285.) See also (No. 372.) Bruise the yolks of two hard boiled Eggs with the back of a wooden spoon, add a tea- spoonful of water to them, and the soft inside and the spawn of the lobster, rub them quite smooth, with a teaspoonful of made mustard, two tablespoonsful of salad oil, and five of vinegar; season it with a very little Cayenne pepper and some salt. Obs.—To this, elder vinegar, catsup, cavice, or anchovy essence or paste, is occasionally added. Crab Sauce. — (No. 286.) This is prepared in the same way as the former sauce, but is very seldom sent to table in this country, Lobster sauce being almost universally preferred, and so it will be, until .John Bull is so raving mad for variety, as to fancy, every change must be charming.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 367 Liver and Parsleij Sauce. — (No. 287-) Wash the liver of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it five minutes in five tablespoonsful of water; chop it fine, bruise it in a small (piantity of the liquor it has boiled in, and with a s[)" ii rub it through a sieve; wash about oiui-tlurd the bulk of parsley leaves, [)ut them on to boil in a little boiling water, with a teaspoonlul of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and mince it voy fine; mix it w'ith the liver, and put it into a quarter pint of melted butter, and warm it up ; do not let it boil. Ohs. — Some Cooks, instead of pounding, mince the liver very fine and leave out the parsley, others add the juice of half a lemon, and some of the peel grated, or a teaspoonful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of white wine, or a little beaten mace or nutmeg, or allspice, and a little essence of anchovy, or catsup. Lemon and Liver Sauce. — (No. 288.) Fare off the rind of a lemon, (or what is pre- ferable when it can be had, the peel of a Seville orange) as thin as possible, so as not to cut off any of the white with it; then cut oft'all the white, and cut the lemon into slices about asGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 368 thick as two half-crown pieces; pick out the peps, and divide the slices into small squares; boil the liver of a fowl or rabbit, mince it fine, or pound it, and rub it through a sieve with a spoon, and mix it, by degrees, with three or four tablespoonsful of melted butter; put in the lemon, and a little of the lemon peel minced very fine, and give them a boil up. Obs. — This, is sometimes made more re- lishing, by pounding half a shallot, or two or three leaves of chervil, or tarragon, or basil, with the liver, and moistening it with a little red wine, or some of the ingredients mentioned in the Obs. to the preceding receipt. Celery Sauce, White. — (No. 289-) Pick and wash four heads of nice white celery; cut it into pieces about an inch long; stew it in a pint of water, and a teaspoonful of salt, till the celery is tender*; roll an ounce of butter with a tablespoonful of flour; add this to half a pint of cream, and give it a boil up. N. B. See (No. 409.) * So imich (Ic'pciuis upon the age of the Celery, we cannot give any precise time for this. Young Celery will be enough in three-quarters of an hour; Old Ce- lery will sometimes take an hour and a half.369 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Celery Sauce, Brozem. — (No. *290.) Pick and wash the celery very clean, ami cut it into thin slices; let it boil gently in a little water till it is perfectly tender, then add a little pepper and salt; let these simmer together for a few minutes, and add a piece of butter rolled in flour, and boil up together with half a pint of beef gravy, (No. 329.) Obs. — This is more in the French style of cookery than the former sauce, and some think it more agreeable. The other is simple and elegant; the beef gravy makes this very fine and high flavoured. If you wish for Celery sauce, when Celery is not in season, half a drachm of celery-seed, or a little Essence of Celery, (No. 409,) will im- pregnate the sauce with all the flavour of the vegetable. Sorrel Sauce. — (No. 29E) Pound sorrel leaves sufficient to get from them two tablespoonsful of juice; pass it through a sieve, and add it to some good melted butter, with the yolk of two eggs, and a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; warm it together without boiling.370 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Tomuta, or Love-apple Sauce. — (No. 2Q2.) See also (No. 443.) Have 12 or 15 tomatas very ripe and very red; take off the stalk; cut them in half; squeeze them just enough to get all the water and seeds out; put them in a quart stewpan, with a capsicum, and two or three table- spoonsful of beef gravy ; set them on a slow stove for an hour, or till properly melted; then rub them through a tammis into a clean stew- pan with a little white pepper and salt, and let them simmer together a few minutes. To PRESERVE TOMATAS. — Choose them quite ripe ; put them into an earthen jar, and bake them till they are tender, pulp them through a hair sieve, and to each pound add a quarter ounce of ground white pepper, two drachms of mace, one ounce of minced shallots, and three ounces of glaze, or portable soup; boil the whole together till every ingredient is tender; rub through a hair sieve, and boil the whole together again till it is the thickness of good Cream ; put it into half-pint preserving pots or bottles; take care they are closely corked ; when once opened, the air soon spoils it: it should be kept in a cool dry place. See Tomata Catsup, (No. 443.).171 GRAVIES AND SAUCES, Mock Toniata Sauce.—(No. 293.) Reduce sharp tasted apples to a pulp, as in making apple sauce; pound them in a mortar with as much turmeric as will give them colour, and as much Chili vinegar as will give the same degree of acid flavour that the tomata has ; add to each pint a quarter of an ounce of shallots, shred fine; put all into a well-tinned saucepan, and mix them, well together, and give them a gentle boil; when cold, take out the shallot, and put the sauce into small stone bottles: your sauce should be of the consistence of a thick syrup; this may be regulated by the Cliili vinegar. Obs. — The only difference, between this, and genuine Love-apple Sauce, is the substituting the pulp of Apple for that of Tomata, ami colouring it with turmeric. Shallot Sauce. — (No. 294.) Mince four shallots very fine ; put them inti^ a stevvpan with a quarter pint of water, two tal)lespoonsful of vinegar, one of white wine, a quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and a little salt; stew for a quarter of an liour.372 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Or, Make it in the same manner as Garlick Sauce, (No. 272.) Or, You may make this sauce more extemporane- ously, by putting two tablespoonsful of shallot vinegar, or shallot wine, (No. 403,) and a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, into half a pint of thick melted butter. Obs.—This is an excellent sauce for chops or steaks, and many are very fond of it with roasted or boiled meat, poultry,^&c. Shallot Sauce, for Boiled Mutton.—(No. 2Q5.) Mince four shallots very fine, and put them into a small saucepan with a quarter pint of liquor the mutton v'as boiled in; let them boil up for five minutes; then put a tablespoonful of vinegar, a quarter teaspoonful of pepper, a little salt, and a bit of butter, as big as a small walnut, when rolled in flour: shake to- gether, till it boils. See (No. 402,) Eshallot Wine. Obs.—We like a little l.omon peel with Shallot, it is a most delectable combination.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 37 ;< Young Onion Sauce. — (No. Clean and peel some young onions, cul. tliein into thin slices, and put them into a stcwpitn with a slice of fat bacon, a (piarter tcaspooiilid of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of salt; s(!t them over the fire ; when they begin to heat, moisten them with water; let them stew lor ten minutes; take out the bacon, scpieeze in half a lemon, and send it u[) hot. Onion Sauce. — (No. ‘297.j Those who like the full Havour of Onions, only cut off the strings and tops, (without peeling oH’ anv of the skins ;) and put them into salt and water, and let them lie an hour; then wasli them, and put them into a kettle with plenty of water, and boil them till they are tender; now- skin them, and pass them through a cullender, and mix a little melted butter w-ith them. N. B. Some mix the pulp of Apples wtlh tin onions, others add mustard to them. K KGRAVIES AND SAUCES, 374 White Onion Sauce. — (No. 298.)^ The following is a more delicate preparation ; —Take half a dozen of the largest and whitest Onions, (the Spanish are the mildest, but these can only be had from August to December,) peel them, and cut them into thin slices, and boil them in a pint of milk, and a pint of water; when they are tender, which will sometimes take an hour (the quicker they are boiled, the whiter they will be,) drain them well on a hair sieve, and put them into a clean saucepan, with an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and two tablespoonsful of cream, or good milk; stir it till it boils; then rub the whole through a tammy, adding cream or milk to make it the consistence you wish to have it. Obs. — This is the usual sauce for boiled rabbits or ducks: they are laid dry in the dish, and this sauce is poured over them. There must be plenty of it; tlie usual expression signifles as much, tor wc say, smother them.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 375 K K 2 Another Onion Sauce. Slice half a dozen large onions, put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, put them over a gentle fire to steep until quite tender, add flour and cream, to make the sauce of a proper thickness, with a bit of salt; rub it through a tammy, and it is ready. Ihozcn 0)iion Sauce.—(No. ‘299-) See also (No. 331.) Slice a couple of large onions, and fry them in butter, turning them till they take a brown colour; then pour in a teacupful of broth, (or water with a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, and same of table beer,) a few pepper-corns, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of flour; cover the saucepan close, and let it simmer half an hour, till it is reduced to the thickness you wish ; rub it through a tammy or fine hair sieve, and put a teaspoonful of made mustard to it, and stir well together. Obs.—Some rerj/ small round young Button Onions, peeled and fried, and put in whole, when your sauce is done, will be an elegant addition to the above. Curry Powder added to this makes ex- cellent sauce.GRAVIES AKD SAUCES. 376 Sage and Onion Sauce. — (No. 300.) Cut an ounce of onion, into small dice, mince half an ounce of sage leaves very fine, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter; fry them a little, but do not let them get any colour; make half a pint of thin melted butter, and mix it with the sage and onions ; then put some bread crumbs to the melted butter and herbs; season with ground black pepper and salt; mix it well, and let it boil up. Obs.—This is, in fact, Goose stuffing, and a very relishing sauce for Roast Pork, Geese, Ducks, or green pease on raaigre days. Portugal Onion Sauce. — (No. 301.) Roast a couple of fine large onions in a cheese-toaster or Dutch oven, till they are some- what more than half done; peel them, take oft’ their top coat, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of good broth (or that quantity of water, with a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup,) and a tablespoonful of flour; season it with salt, a few grains of Cayenne pepper, a glass oi Port wine, and the juice of half a lemon; let all simmer together till they are tender enough to rub through a cullender, mix a little bit ol butter with them, and you will have a most admirable sauce.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 377 K K 3 Carrier Sauce. — (No. 302.) My facetious predecessor, Dr. King, in his letter to Dr. Lister (vide “ King’s Art uf Cookery”) says; “ The following is tlie true receipt for making ‘ the carrier sauce,’ whicli I have from an ancient manuscript, remaining at the Bull Inn, in Bishopsgate Street;—Take seven spoonsful of spring water, slice two onions, of moderate size, into a large saucer, and put in as much salt as you can hold at tiirice betwixt your forefinger and thumb if large, and serve it up. Probatum at, Hobson, carrier to the University of Cambridge.” Green 3Iiiit Sauce. — CNo. 303.) Wash half a handful of green mint, (to this some add one third the cpiantity of parsley,) pick the leaves from the stalks, mince them \ery fine and put them into a sauceboat, with a teaspoonful of moist sugar, and four table- spoonsful of vinegar ; mix well together. Obs. — This is an inseparable companion to !»ut Lamb; we think it an equally agreeable rdish with cold lamb. If Green mint cannot be procured, this sauce may be made with Mint vinegar. See (No. 398.)GRAVIES AND SAUCES. .378 Apple Sauce. — (No. 304.) Pare and core three good sized baking apples put them into a well-tinned pint saucepan (cover it close, because the steam helps to dc them,) with two tablespoonsful of cold water set the saucepan on a trivet over a slow fire put them on a couple of hours before dinner for some apples will take a long time stewing, although others will be ready in a quarter of an hour; when the apples are done enough, pour off the water, let the apples stand a few minutes to get dry; then beat them up with a fork, with a bit of butter about as big as a nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. N.B. Some add lemon peel. Mushroom Sauce. —(No. 303.) Pick a pint of Mushrooms (the smaller tlu better,) wash them very clean, and put thei. into a saucepan with a blade of mace, a quarter pint of milk, an ounce of butter, and a table- spoontul of flour; set them over a gentle fire, and stir them frequently tdl they boil; wher. they have boiled about ten minutes, leave thtm near the fire to keep hot, till wanted. Ohs. — It will I)p a very great improvement toGRAVIES and sauces. 379 ihis, and the two following sauces, to add to them the juice of half a dozen mushrooms, pre- pared the day before, by sprinkling them with salt, the same as when you make Catsup ; or add a large spoonful of good Mushroom Catsup. See also Quintessence of Mushrooms, (No. 440.) Mushroom Sauce, Brozcu. — (No. 306.) Clean half a pint of small mushrooms, put tiiem into half a pint of beef gravy, (No. 186,) or (No. 329;) thicken with flour and butter; set tliem by the fire to stew gently for half an hour; take off the scum as it rises; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and send it up. Italian Sauce, rcilh Mushroozns. — (No. 307.) Cut off the stalks, peel off the skin, scrape away the gills, and wash very clean two table- spoonsful of small white mushrooms; chop them fine, and throw them into a little lemon juice to keep them wlrite; (chop your mushrooms very fine, and as quick as possible, or they will turn black, and spoil the colour of your sauce ; to prevent which, we recommend the lemon juice;) put them into a clean saucepan, with halfa|)int of sauce Tournee, (No. 367,) and a380 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. teaspoonful of eschalots minced fine (and washed and dried in the corner of a clean towel;) season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; reduce the sauce a little, and send it up. Italian Ktrnoulade.—(No. 308.) This is a cold sauce, (made without anv heating,) and is very fashionable in Italy, for fish, &c. which are to be eaten cold; add to three tablespoonsfid of vinegar half a teaspoon- fill of salt, a little pepper, and almost as mucli oil as vinegar; shred some parsley very fine, wash, bone, and pound, and put through a sieve a couple of anchovies; put them into the liquor, and then cut very small a teaspoonful of capers, put them in, stir well together, and send it to table. See also (No. 359.) Obs.—We want cold sauces of this kind, and this is an exceeding good one for many things— as cold fowl, turkey, lamb, &c.—these are dry and insipid with salt alone, and our Englisli cookery does not afford any other accompani- ments to them, without heating them up, by which they lose a great deal of their sweetness. This sauce is not too sharp, for the oil softens the vinegar; and it is very finely relished witii file mixed flavour ol the other inaredients.381 GRAVIES A>:n SAUCES. Italian Rcmoulade, Hot. — (No. 30y.) Chop parsley very fine, with half the cpiaa- tity of cajiers, shred a couple of anchovies, and peel and shave very thin two shallots ; all these (being cut and prepared separately) must be mixed together ; set on a stewpan with a quarter pint of gravy, add to it two tablespoonsful of oil, a spoonful of mustard, and the juice of a large lemon ; when all this is hot together, put in the ingredients, seasoned with some pepper, a very little salt, and some loaves of sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, and minced fine ; stir well together, and five minutes over a good fire will do it; put it through a sieve and it is ready. Obs.—This is copied from the same school as the last sauce; it is sent up in a sauce-boat to be eaten with boiled fowls, veal, &c. Poor Man's Sauce. — (No. 310.) Pick a handful of parsley leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, strew over a little salt; shred fine half a dozen young onions, add these to the parsley, and put them into a sauce- boat, with tliree tablespoonsful of oil, and live of vinegar; add some ground black pepiier; .stir together, and send it up.382 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Obs.—This sauce is in much esteem in France, where the people of taste, weary of so many rich dishes, to obtain the charm of variety, occasionally order the fare of the peasant. “ The ricli, tir’d with continual feasts, “ For change become their next poor tenant’s guests; “ Drink hearty draughts of Ale from plain brown bowls, “ And snatch the homely rasher from the coals.” Dryden’s Prologue to “ All for Love." (larlick Gravy. — (No. 311.) See also (No. C72.) Slice a pound and a half of veal or beef, and pepper and salt it, lay it in a stewpan with a couple of carrots split, and three turnips, four cloves of garlick sliced, and a large spoonful of water; set the stewpan over a gentle lire in a stove, and watch when the meat begins to slick to the pan; when it does, turn it, and let it be very well browned, (but take care it is not at all burnt;) then pour in a pint and a half of gravy, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a lemon; set it on as:ain, and let it simmer very gently for half an hour longer; throw in a little flour from time to time, till the gravy isGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 383 as thick as you wish; then take off the fat, and ■Strain the gravy from the ingredients by pouring it through a napkin, straining and pressing it very hard. Obs. — This was the secret of the old Spaniard, who kept the house of that name on Hampstead- heath, by which lie acquired such fame for flavouring his Olios and Ragouts, &c. Those who love Garlick, will find this is an extremely rich relish. Mr. M iCHAEL FvElly’s*-SrtMcc yb/’ Boiled Tripe, Calfhead or Qoxcheel.— (No. 311.*) Garlick vinegar a tablespoonful, of mustard, brown sugar, and black pepper, a teaspoonful each; stirred into half a pint of oiled melted butter. Mr. Kelly’s Sauce Piqua/ite. Pound a tablespoonful of capers, and one of minced parsley, as fine as possible; then add the yolks of three hard eggs, rub them well together with a tablespoonful of mustard, bone six anchovies, and pound them, rub them * Composer ami Director of tlie Music at llie i heatre-Royal, Dniry-lane, and the Italian Opera.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. •384 through a hair sieve, and mix with two table- spoonsful of oil, one of vinegar, one of shallot ditto; rub all these well together in a mortar, till thoroughly incorporated, and then stir them into half a pint of good gravy or melted butter, and put the whole through a sieve. Tarragon Sauce. —(No. 314.) Pick and wash a handful of tarragon leaves, put them into a saucepan with half a pint of Gravy; let them stew till they are tender; rub them through a sieve; take three tablespoonsful of what they were boiled in, an ounce of butter, and a large tablespoonful of flour; warm these together, and add a tablespoonful of sherry, or Madeira, and same of tarragon vinegar ; or the juice of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Herb Sauce Piquante. — (No. 315.) Mince a thin slice of a clove of eshallot, or garlick, with some parsley, tarragon, chervil, burnet, and basil, each in proportion to their flavours : when well washed and squeezed drv, let them simmer in a little water, without boiling; press through a sieve; add a bit ofGRAVIES AND SAUCES. butter, flour, pepper, and salt; boil to a good consistence, and add lemon juice to make it relishing and smart tasted. Truffle Sauce. — (No. .‘3l6.) Make a quart of beef gravy, (No. 18(J,) or (No. 3‘29,) wash and peel a dozen truffles, put the peels into the gravy, let it boil half an hour; and strain it into a clean saucepan; now put in your truffles, let them boil half an hour longer, and your sauce is ready. Truffles may almost always be procured at the oil shops in London, either preserved in fat. or dried. Obs.—This is a sauce the French eat fre- quently with butcher’s meat; they make sauces of mushrooms and morells in the same manner, which are also counted among the most alluring invitations to eating. They proceed upon much better principles than we in our cookery, who generally have butter for the foundation of ouv sauces. I, 1.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 386 Fried Parsley, — (No. 317*) Let it be well picked and washed, and then put into a cloth, and swung backwards and forwards till it is perfectly dry; put it into a pan of hot fat, fry it quick, and have a slice ready to take it out the moment it is crisp, (if you let it stay too long, it will look black;) put it on a sieve or coarse cloth before the fire to drain. N. B. It is not very easy to do this nicely. Crisp Parsley.—(No. 318.) Pick and wash a handful of young parsley, and then shake it in a dry cloth to drain the water from it; spread it on a sheet of clean paper, in a Dutch oven before the fire, and lay some very little bits of butter on it; turn it frequently until it is quite c/'isp. This is a much more easy and elegant way of preparing it, than the usual way of frying it, which is not seldom ill done. Obs.—It is a very pretty garnish for Lamb Chops, Fried Fish, &c.387 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Fried Bread Sippets. — (No. 31<J.) Cut a slice of bread about a ([uarter of an inch thick, divide it with a sharp kitchen knife into pieces two inches square; shape these into triangles or crosses ; put some clean dripping or lard into an iron fryingpan; when it is melted, put in the sippets, and fry them a ddicate light brown; take them up with a fish-slice, and drain them on a hair sieve, that they may not be greasy. Obs.—These are a pretty garnish, and very welcome accompaniment, and improvement to the finest made dishes ; they may also be sent up with peas and other soups; but when in- tended for soups, the bread must be cut into bits, about almost half an inch square. NotaBene. If these are not done l ery delicately dean and dry, they are uneatable. Fried Bread Crumbs. — (No. 3‘20.) Rub a pint of crumbs of bread (which has been baked two days) through a wire sieve, or cullender; or you may rub them in a cloth till they are as fine as if they had been grated, and sifted ; put them into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, place it over a moderate fire, I. L 2:«8 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. and stir them about with a wooden spoon till they are the colour of a guinea; pour them into a sieve, and let them stand ten minutes to drain. Ohs. — Fried Crumbs are sent up with roasted sweetbreads, or larks, pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, and grouse, or moor game, especially, if they hare been kept long enough. Bread Sauce. — (No. 321.) Cut in slices sufficient stale bread, cover it with milk, and put it on to boil, with an onion, and half a dozen corns of white pepper or all- spice, tied up in a muslin bag; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire, till the bread has soaked up the milk, take out the spice and beat it well with a wooden spoon; if you wish it to look very smooth, rub it through a sieve. Rice Sauce.—(No. 321.*) Steep a quarter pound of Rice in a pint of milk, with onion, pepper, &c. as in the last receipt, when the rice is quite tender (take out the spice,) rub it through a sieve into a clean stewpan ; if too thick, put a little milk or cream to it.389 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 1. L 3 Obs.—This is a very delicate white sauce; and at elegant tables, frequently served instead of Bread Sauce. Plain Browning*—(No. 322.) Is a very convenient article in the kitchen, to add to those Soups or Sauces, of which it is supposed the deep brown of their Complexion, denotes the strength and savouriness of the Composition; and it is a very good substitute for what is called “ Indian, or Japanese soy,” see (No. 436.) Put half a pound of Sugar, (Lump sugar is best) and a tablespoonful of water into a clean iron saucepan, set it over a slow tire, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till the sugar is burnt to a dark brown colour; then add to it an ounce of salt, and dilute it (with about three wineglasses of water,) till it is the thickness of Soy; let it boil, take off the scum, and strain the liquor into bottles. * This is u favourite ingredient, witli (he Brewers, wlio use it under the name of “ Essentia Hina” to colour their Beer; it is also employed by the Brandy makers, in considerable quantity, to colour Brandy ; to which, besides enriching its complexion, it gives that sweetish taste, and fulness in the mouth, which custom, has taught Brandy drinkers to admire, and prefer to the finest Cogniac in its gentiine state.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. .390 ■which must be well stopped: if you have uol any of this by you, and you wish to darken the colour of your sauces, pound a teaspoonful of lump sugar, and put into a large iron spoon, with as much water as will dissolve it; hold it over a quick fire till it becomes of a very dark brown colour; mix it with your soup, &c., while it is hot. Ohs. — The above is merely a Colouring mat- ter ; most of the preparations under this title are a medley of burnt butter, spices, catsup, wine, &c., but we recommend the Rational Epicure to he content with the natural colour of Soups and sauces, which to a well-educated Palate, are mueh more agreeable, without any of these empyreumatie additions ; for however they may please the Eye, they plague the Stomach most grievously, so “ open pour mouth, and shut pour ryes.” A scientific French Cook observes — “ The generality of Cooks caleine Bones, till they are as black as roasted Coffee, and then throw them hissing hot, into the stewpan, to give a brown colour to tlieir Broths: others burn sugar in an iron spoon till it is black and carbonized, and then mix it with the sauce for the made dishes, &c. The violent calcination of these and other ingredients, under the appearance of a nourishingGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 39 J gravy, envelopes our food with stimulating acid and corrosive poison. Roux or Thickening, if not made very carefully, produce exactly the same effect, and the juices of beef or veal burnt over a hot fire, to give a rich colour to soup or sauces, grievously offend the stomach, and create the most distressing indigestion. The judicious Cook will refuse the help of these incendiary articles; which ignorance, or quackery only employ, at the expense of the a-edit of the cook, and the health of her employers.” N. B. The BEST browning is good home made Glaze, or either Mushroom Catsup, or Port Wine. Greening. — (No. 323.) Pound a handful of spinage in a mortar, and squeeze the juice from it. eel,— {No. 324.) With the juice of beet i-oot or cochineal; for Yellow, — (No. 325.) The yolks of eggs, or saffron steeped and s(|ueezed.392 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Gravy for Roast Meat. — (No. 3'i6.) Most joints will afford sufficient trimmings, &c. to make half a pint of plain Gravy; and for those that do not, about half an hour before you think the meat will be done, mix a teaspoonful of salt with a full quarter pint of boiling water; and drop this by degrees on the brown parts of the joint; set a dish under to catch it, (the meat will soon brown again,) set it by, as it cools the fat will settle on the surface; when the meat is ready, remove this, and warm up the gravy, and pour it into the dish. N.B. If any gravy comes down in the dish, the Cook (if she is a good housewife) will pre- serve it to enrich the hash. Obs. — Some culinary professors, who think nothing can be excellent,^ that is not extrava- gant, call this “ Scots gravy;” not, I believe, intending it, as it certainly- is, a compliment to the laudable and rational frugality, of that intelligent and sober-minded people. N.B. Apicius has this gravy brought to table in a sauce-boat, and preserves the intrinsic gravy that flows from the meat, in the Argyll.:}9;3 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. (irazy fur Boiled Meat — (No. 327.) .May be made from some parinajs and trim- mings, or pour from a quarter to half a pint ol the liquor in which the meat was boiled, into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of the joint with a sharp skewer. Bozo I Vow Sauce for Bouilli Beef. (No. 328.) Chop some parsley leaves very finely, quarter two or tiliree pickled cucumbers or walnuts, and divide them into small squares; put these into a saucepan with a bit of butter as big as a large egg, a tablespoonful of fine flour, and almost half a pint of the broth in which the beef was boiled ; .add a tablespoonful of vinegar, the like quantity of mushroom catsup, or Port wine, or both, and a teaspoonful of made mustard ; let it simmer together till it is as thick as you wish it; pour it over the bouilli, or send it up in a sauce- tureen. Ohs.- If you think the above not sufficiently relishing,* add to it two teaspoonsful of capers, or a minced shallot, or one or two teaspoonsful of shallot wine, (No. 402,) or basil or elder vinegar; or strew over the meat, carrots and turnips cut into dice, minced capers, walnuts, red cabbage, or pickled cucumbers.394 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. To make Gravy. As the object in making gravy is to com- pletely extract the nutritions succulence of the meat, it is necessary that the meat should be well beaten, to comminute the containing ves- sels and scored, to augment the surface to the action of the water. Take a pound of lean beef, beat it well with a rolling pin, score it in all directions, add pepper and salt, some scraped carrot, sliced onion or shallot, and allspice; put a small piece of butter at the bottom of the saucepan, and keep it over a very gentle fire for half an hour, when about a quarter pint of rich and intrinsic gravy will be obtained; add to the remaining meat as much water as will cover it, a small quantity of isinglass, and a piece of bread gradually toasted very brown; let this gently simmer for an hour, or till more than half is evaporated; strain it, and add it to the former. A. C. jtiu..395 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Href Gravy Sauce. — (No. .‘329,) for Game, Poultry, csr. Cut a pound of nice juicy c;ravy beef into thin slices, and the neck and legs and liver of a fowl, (if you make this sauce for poultry,) about an ounce of ham or nice bacon, and the bigness of an egg of fresh butter; lay them at the bottom of a stewpau, with a nosegay of a small sprig of winter savory or lemon- thyme and parsley, a roll of lemon-peel, two cloves stuck into a middling sized onion, half a dozen berries of allspice, and a dozen of black pepper; put to this three tablespoons- ful of water, cover it, and set it on a slow fire till the liquor is all boiled away, and the meat has got very well browned, but take care it is not at all hiirnt: the time, this will take, depends so much on the state of the fire, that the best way to make sure of your sauce is, when it has been boiling a few minutes, to take oft’ the cover and watch it; when the meat has got a nice brown, pour in a pint and half of boiling water; when it boils, catch the scum, and put in a crust of bread toasted very brown, (but not burnt) and let it stew xery gently for an hour and a half, or till it is half boiled away, and reduced to about throe ([uarters of a pint; then lake a396 GRAVIF.S AND SAUTES. large spoonful of thickening, (the liver of a fowl, minced and pounded with a bit of butter or the thickening, is an improvement,) made as per receipt (No. 257,) stir it into it by degrees, and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour longer; it should be about as thick as rich cream ; strain it through a fine hair sieve, or tammis cloth, and put in a tablespoonful of Mushroom Catsup, and you have a fine rich Brown Sauce for fish, fowl, or ragout. Obs.-—-If you wish to make it still more relishing, especially if it is to be eaten with game, or wild water-fowl; you may add (a quarter of an hour before your sauce will be finished,) a tablespoonful of Port wine, the juice of half a lemon, and a roll of the rind cut thin, if you think it not strong enough, use double the quantity of meat, or add a bit of glaze or portable soup in it. N. B. At a large dinner, a pint tureen of this gravy, should be placed at each end of the table.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. .'597 Ragout Sauce, or strong Beef Gravy xcith Mushrooms. — (No. 330.) Choose a dozen very large flaps, (tlie biggest full opened mushrooms that yon can get,) cut out the stalks, peel off the skin, scrape away the gills, and strew over them a little pepper and salt. Cut three pounds of steaks, half an inch thick, from a part of the beef where there is little fat; the leg of mutton, or neck piece, is very proper for this purpose. Beat the steaks well, and season tliem moderately with a little salt. Cover the bottom of a gallon stewpan with a couple of slices of fat bacon; upon these lay four or five of the mushrooms, then lay in some of the beef steaks, upon these the rest of the mushrooms, and the rest of the beef steaks over them. Cut to pieces two onions and four carrots, half a dozen cloves, four blades of mace, two dozen berries of black pepper, and same of allspice, as much grated nutmeg as will lay on a sixpence, and a faggot of thyme, knotted maijoram, winter savory, and parsley, whose stems when tied up will be as big as two fingers; cover the stewpan, and set it over a gentle fire, and watch how the gravy comes ; when there is a good deal, set it on a better M M398 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. fire, and let it boil away till the meat is nearly dry, and it begins to stick to the pan; then uncover it, stir all about, and put the vegetables and herbs undermost, that they may get brown, but take care they are not burned: then pour in three pints of boiling water, and put it on a slow fire to simmer gently for an hour and a half, or till your sauce is reduced to about a pint and a half. Then take a large spoonful of Thickening, made as per receipt (No. 257,) stir it into it by degrees, and let it simmer gently a quarter of an hour longer; skim it well, and strain through a tammis cloth, or hair sieve. N.B. A wineglassful of “ Quintessence of Mushrooms,” (No. 440,) will be a great im- provement. Obs.—This is the very “ ne plus ultra” of rich gravy for sauces, ragouts, and made dishes, and far exceeds the most costly Consommes of the French Kitchen. This quintessence of mushrooms and beef is incomparably more sa- voury and delicious.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 399 Onion Gravy. — (No. 331.) Peel and slice half an ounce of onion, put it into a quart stewpan, with an ounce of butter; set it on a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is nicely browned; now stir in half an ounce of flour; then add almost half a pint of good broth, and boil up for ten minutes, add a tablespoonful of Port wiue, and same of mush- room catsup, and rub it through a tammy or fine sieve. N. B. If this sauce is for Steaks, shred half an ounce of onions, fry them a nice brown, and put them to the sauce you have rubbed through a tammy. Obs.—If you have no broth, put in the like quantity of water, and just before you give it the last boil up, add to it a large tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, and, if you like it, the same quantity of Port wine or good ale. Maigre Gravy. — (No. 332.) Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, set it over a brisk fire; when it has done talking, dredge an ounce of flour, stir it about till it is a fine yellow colour, and then slice, and put in half an ounce of onion, and pare off the red part of a couple of carrots; turn them with a M M 2GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 400 wooden spoon till they take a good brown colour; stir well together, and add half a pint of boiling water, and season it with two or three blades of pounded mace, some lemon- thyme, or savory, and a bay-leaf, and some pepper and salt; let it stew half an hour over a slow fire, and press it through a tammis sieve : you may add Port wine, mushroom and oyster catsup, or lemon pickle, or juice. N. B. Anchovy is frequently added. Fish Gravy. — (No. S33.) Skin and clean a pound of good eels, or four flounders, cut them to pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of water; let them boil a little, then put in two blades of mace, a dozen corns of whole pepper, a bundle of sweet herbs, a piece of bread toasted brown, and a roll of lemon-peel; boil up all together; then put iiitu another saucepan a piece of butter about as big as an egg; melt it, dredge in some flour, toss it about till it is brown, strain the gravy to it, and mix all well together.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 401 M ,M 3 Grai'i/ Sai(ce for Poult7'y, leithoiit Meat. (No. 3340 Take the neck, legs, livei' and gizzard, mince tliem small, and boil them in a pint of water, with a small piece of bread toasted brown, twelve berries of Black, and the same of Jamaica pepper, a sprig of lemon-thyme, or savory, or a few leaves of basil, or a bay-leaf; (the bones of any kind of roast meat broken to pieces, and stewed with it, are a great improvement; as are also an anchovy, or the cuttings or trim- mings of any joint you may have in the house;) boil slov/ly till your gravy is reduced nearly half; then strain it into a clean stewpan, pound the liver with a little bit of butter, and rub it through a sieve with a wooden spoon, thicken your gravy with butter and flour, and add a tablespoonful of red wine, the same of any kind of catsup you think proper, and a roll of lemon-peel; just let it boil up, and it is ready. Mock Gravy Sauce. — (No. 335.) Half a pint of water, half as much good small beer, or two tablespoonsful of ale, that is neither bitter nor stale, a bundle of sweet herbs, a piece of thin lemon-peel, two cloves, or aGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 402 blade of mace, or twelve berries of allspice, the same of black pepper, a tablespoonful of mush- room catsup, and the same quantity of Port wine. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan; when it is melted, put in a quarter of an ounce of sliced onion, shake in about half an ounce of flour, stir it well with a wooden spoon till the froth sinks, and it has caught a bright brown colour; then by degrees stir in the above in- gredients, and let it stew for half an hour, and strain it well through a tammis or fine sieve. Obs. — Mushroom Catsup, supplies the place of meat, better than any thing: if you have not this, beer, wine, spices, and the aromatic roots and herbs, onions, anchovy and soy, variously combined, and thickened with flour and butter, are the usual substitutes; but those families who are frequently in want of Gravy Sauces, (witliout plenty of which, no Cook can support the credit of her kitchen,) should always keep by them a stock of Portable Soup or Gl.aze, see (No. 18.5,) and (No. 251): this, with a portion of the above materials, or a tablespoonful of “ double relish,” or “ sauce superlative,” (No. 429), or (No. 255), will make gravy immediately.403 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Soup-Herb, and soon made Savoury Sauce. (No. 536.) Put an ounce and half of butter into a stew- pan ; as soon as it is warm, mix with it half an ounce of flour, and stir thoroup;hly together for a few minutes; then add a drachm of Zest, and pour in by degrees almost half a pint of boiling water, and a large spoonful of catsuj), (or if you have none, put in the like quantity of Port wine;) let it boil up for five minutes, stirring it all the time; then strain it through a fine sieve, and you have a charming extemporaneous relish for either roast or boiled poultry or game, chops, steaks, &c. ZEST, see (No. 255), is sold by the Publisher of this work; by Messrs. Ball, No. 81, New Bond Street; and at Mr. Butler’s herb shop, opposite Henrietta Street, Covent Garden. Game Gravy. — (No. 337.) Add two teaspoonsful of Port wine, and the juice of half a lemon, to half a pint of the gravy sauce for poultry, (No. 329.)404 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Orange Gravy Sauce, for Wild Ducks. (No. 338.) Set on a saucepan with half a pint of Veal Gravy, (No. 192,) add to it half a dozen leaves of basil, and a small onion; let it boil up two or three times, and strain it off. Put to the clear gravy the juice of a very fine Seville orange, or two lemons, half a teaspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and a glass of red wine; send it up hot. Ohs.—This is an excellent Sauce for Widgeon, Teal, and all kinds of wild water-fowl. The com- mon way of gashing the breast, and squeezing in an orange, cools and hardens the flesh, and compels every one to eat duck that way; those who have the true taste for wild fowl, eat them very little done, and without any sauce. Gra- vies should always be sent up in a boat; tliey keep hot longer; it leaves it to the choice of the company to partake of it or not, as they like; and for those who choose it, there is no way of having the flavour of the pepper and orange so well.(iRAVIES AXD SAUCES. 405 i Woodcock Sauce*. — (No. 339 ) When the Cocks are roasted, take out tlie guts and livers, bruise them to a mash with a spoon, press it through your sieve, and sprinkle on them a little pepper and salt, add two large spoonsful of good gravy, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour; boil up together. Pour it into a hot dish, cut up the woodcocks in it, and send them to table. Snipe Sauce.—(No. 340.) The snipe in a great measure owes its sauce to itself, and there is a way of making it very fine. It is usual to roast these birds without drawing; when they are done enough take them off the spit, and take out the entrails and the liver, chop them upon a trencher: set on a small saucepan, with some veal gravy and red wine, seasoned with a little pepper and salt; put in the entrails and the liver, mash them well together, and squeeze in the juice of an orange; thicken your sauce with a little flour, and give it a boil, and skim it and strain it. • See (No. 76.)GRAVIES AK0 SAUCES. 406 Obs. — There are two ways of using this sauce; either pour it into a dish, and lay the snipes over it, or make it into a dish with them in the following manner; cut the birds to pieces, put them into the sauce when it is well thickened, pour the whole into a dish, and squeeze in tlie juice of half a lemon. Bonne Bouche, for Goose or Deck, OR Roast Pork. — (No. 341.) Mix one teaspoonful of made mustard, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a few grains of Cayenne, in a large wineglassful of Port wine*; pour it into the goose by a slit in the apron, just before serving upf; or, as all the company may not like it, send it up in a boat, with a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter. See also (No. 300.) * To this Apicius adds two tablespoonsfal of Mtisli- room Catsup, (No. 4.S9,) and instead of the saltspoonfni of salt, two teaspoonsful of Essence of Anchovy, (No. 433.) If the above articles are rubbed together in a mortar, and put into a close stopped bottle, they will keep for several months. t Thus far the above is from Dr. Hunter’s “ CuUna," who says it is a secret worth knowing: we agree with him, and so tell it here; with a little addition, which vve think renders it a still more gratifying communi- cation.407 gravies and sauces. i Savouri/ Sauce for Roast Pork or Geese, Sc. (No. 342.) Mince half an ounce of onion very fine, put an ounce of butter into a pint stewpan, fry it, turning it often with a wooden spoon, till it takes a light brown colour, then stir in a large tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of luush- room catsup, (with or without the like quantity of Port wine,) and a quarter pint of broth or water, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, the same of salt; give them a boil, and then add a teaspoonful of mustard, and the juice of half a lemon, or one or two teaspoonsful of vinegar, or Basil Vinegar, (No. 397,) or Tarragon, (No. 396.) 0/>s.—The French call this “ Sauce Robert,” (the name of the cook who invented it,) and are (very fond of it with many things. Turtle Sauce. — (No. 343.) Put into your stewpan a pint of beef or veal i| cullis, (No. 189,) or (No. 192,) add to this, a ^ wineglass of Madeira, the juice and peel of half ( a lemon, a few leaves of basil*, an eshallot i quartered, a few grains of Cayenne pepper, or Curry powder, and a little Essence of Anchovy ; { • See Basil Wine, (No. 397.) /GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 408 let them simmer together for five minutes, and strain through a tammis; you may introduce a dozen Turtle Forcemeat balls; see Receipt, (No. 380,) &c. Obs. — This is a delicious Sauce for boiled or hashed Calf’s head, stewed veal, or veal cut- lets, or any dish you dress Turtle fashion. The far-fetcht and dear-bought Turtle owes all its estimation to the savoury sauce that is made for it; without, it would be as insipid, as any other Fish is without Sauce. See Obs. to (No. 493.) Essence of Turtle. — (No. 343.*) Essence of Anchovy, (No. 433,) one wine- glassful. Shallot Wine, (No. 402,) ditto. Basil Wine, (No. 397,) four ditto. Mushroom Catsup, (No. 439,) two ditto. Concrete-Lemon Acid, two drachms. Lemon-peel, very thinly pared, three quarters of an ounce. Curry Powder, (No. 455,) a quarter of an ounce. Steep for a week to get the flavour of the Lemon-peel. Obs.—This is very convenient, to e.\tempo- ' raneously flavour Soup or Sauce.UKAVIES AND SAUCES. 409 N N }}i)te Sauce, for f^euison. — (No. 344.) A quarter of a pint of claret or Port wine, half the quantity of gravy, broth, or water, and two tablespoonsful of sugar; let it just boil up for the sugar to melt, and send up in a sauce- boat. Obs.—This will do equally well for a hare. rinegar Sauce, for Venison. — (No. S45.) Put into a silver, or very clean and well tinned saucepan, half a pint of the best white- wine vinegar, and a quarter of a pound of the finest loaf-sugar; set it over the fire, and let it simmer gently; skim it carefully, and pour it through a flannel jelly bag, and send it up in a basin. Obs.—Some people, like this better than the weet wine sauces. Siceet Sauce, for Venison.—(No. 346.) Put some currant jelly into a stewpan; when it is melted, pour it into a sauce-boat. Obs. — Many add half the quantity of Port wine.410 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Mutto)i Gravy^ for Venison.— (No. 347.) The best gravy for venison, is that made of the trimmings of tlie joint; if this is all used, and you have no undressed venison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces, and fry it a little brown in an iron fryingpan; then put it into a clean stewpan, with a quart of boiling water, cover it close, and let it simmer gently for an hour, now uncover your stewpan, and let it reduce to three quarters of a pint, pour it through a hair sieve, take the fat off, and send it up in a boat. It is only to be seasoned with a little salt, that it may not overpower the natural flavour of the meat. N. B. Some prefer the unseasoned Beef Gravy, (No. 18(i.) Curry Sauce — (No. 348.) Is made by stirring a sufficient quantity of Curry powder into gravy, or melted butter, or onion sauce, see (Nos. 297, 298, and 299,) or Onion Gravy, (No. 331.) The composition of Curry powder varies so much, that we cannot give any specific receipt as to the quantity. Tlie Cook must add it by degrees, tasting asCJRAVIES AND SAUCES. N S 41 ( she proceeds, and taking care not to put in too much. Obs.—The Curry Powder (No. 455,) is tlic best we have met with. Suiip-hei'by and Savourp Double Relish Sauce, — (No. 34Q.) Is made in tlie same way, with the powder, (No. 460.) JIa?n Sauce, for Poullry. — (No. 350.) Chop the legs and feet of a fowl, and cut three or four thin slices of ham or bacon, bruise them to break the fibres, and make them part with their juice; put them into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, and let them sweat over a slow fire for ten minutes, strew over them some Hour, and keep stirring them, moisten them with almost half a pint of water, and a tablespoonful of good small beer; season it with twelve berries of Jamaica, and the same of black pepper, and some sweet herbs; let it simmer very gently for half an hour: if not thick enough, thicken it with flour and butter, and let them warm together, and strain it. •)412 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Essence of Ham. — (No. 351.) Boil a ham in the usual way ; when it is done enough, run an iron skewer through it in several places; the gravy that comes from it is the “ true esse7ice of humput it, while hot, into jelly glasses; the fat that runs out with the gravy will cover the top, and preserve it. The ham will still do for a cold relish, or for potting. Ohs.—This is certainly the very quintessence of ham, but so expensive, it is only attainable by Grands-gourmands of the first magnitude. The following preparation will supply its place at a moderate cost. Ham Sauce. — (No. 352.) You must have a fine and well flavoured ham, or the sauce will be good for nothing. Preserve the gravy that runs from it when cut at table; and when the ham is pretty well eaten down, so that it cannot appear again in the parlour, nor any handsome slices be cut from it, pick all the meat clear from the bone, (do not put in any ot the rusty or decayed parts,) beat it well with a rolling pin, that it may be broken in every part, and put this mash into a saucepan, with a slice ol lat bacon at the bottom, andGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 413 some carrot and an onion cut into slices, pour in two or three tablespoonsful of broth, or water, and set it over a slow fire for about ten minutes; stir it about till it sticks to the bottom of the stewpan; then dreds^e in a little flour, and keep stirring it about for some time, for it will more and more stick to the bottom ; after some time, add to it its own gravy that you have saved, and pour in half a pint of gravy, (or water and a tablespoonful of mush- room catsup, if you have no gravy,) a small sprig of lemon-thyme, sweet marjoram, or winter savory, a few leaves of sweet basil, an eshallot, cut in half, a couple of bay-leaves, and a dozen corns of black pepper; cover up, and let it stew very gently, over a very slow fire, for about forty minutes; strain off the gravy through a fine sieve; skim it well; clear it with the white of an egg, give it a boil up, strain through a tammis, and when cold, bottle it for use. Obs. — This ham sauce is made at very moderate expense, and is equal to the most extravagant essences of ham: and though thus easily and cheaply obtained, it is a very rich article of the sauce kind, and very convenient to heighten the flavour of ragouts, gravies, &c., and for veal, capons, &c. See Potted Ham, (No. 509.) N N 3GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 414 Minced Mam Sauce, for Eggs or Pease. (No. 353.) Two or three slices of boiled ham, minced very fine, with a gherkin, and a morsel of onion, a little parsley, pepper and nutmeg; stew all together for half an hour in a pint of good gravy; when it is time to send it up, let your sauce be half boiling, and pour it over the eggs or pease, or send it up in a sauce-boat. Sauce for Veal Cutlets.—(No. 554.) When you have fried the cutlets, take them out, and put into the pan four tablespoonsful of water, a few sweet herbs, an onion sliced, and a little lemon-peel shred fine ; thicken it with a bit of butter, rolled in flour, add a table- spoonful of Ball’s cavice, or lemon pickle, give it a boil, and pour it into the dish of cutlets. N. B. To the above, some add anchovy essence, or some of the flavoured vinegar. Grill Sauce. — (No. 355.) To half a pint of gravy, (No. 329,) add an ounce of fresh butter, and a large tablespoonful of flour, a large tablespoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, two teaspoot^ful of lemon juice.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 415 one of made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, half a one of black pepper, a quarter of the rind of a lemon grated very thin, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little shallot vinegar, or rather shallot wine, (No. 402,) or a very small piece of minced shallot; simmer together for ten minutes, and strain it; pour a little of it over the grill, and send up the rest in a sauce tureen. Obs.—This is a piquante relish for broiled Uevlls, &c. Sauce for Rump Steaks, or Mutton Chops^ S^'c. — (No. 356.) See also (No. 331.) Take your chops out of the fryingpan, and for a pound of meat put in four tablespoonsful of boiling water, a large teaspoonful of flour, i. e. about three drachms, and a tablespoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, or browning, (No. 322,) or (No. 449;) let it boil together a few minutes, and pour it through a sieve to the steaks. Obs.—To the above is sometimes added a sliced onion, a minced eshallot, or a little shallot wine, see (No. 402,) see also (No. 423,) and (No. 135,) with a tablespoonful of Port wine; to these some add a pickled cucumber or walnut, cut into little bits.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 416 Savoury Jelly for Cold Meat, Fish, Sc. (No. 357.) Spread some slices of lean veal and ham at. the bottom of a stewpan, Avith a carrot, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a couple of onions ; cover it, and let it sweat over a sIoav fire till it is as deep a brown as you would have it, then pour in a quart of good broth or water, and a calf's foot or cow heel, see Obs. to (No. 198.) If it is water, it must be more reduced than if it is broth ; set it on to boil slowly, skim it well, and put in a dozen corns of black pepper, tivo blades of mace, and two drachms of isinglass ; let it simmer slowly on a gentle fire for two hours ; skim the fat off, and strain it through a tammis cloth; Avhen it is cool, put to it the Avhites or shells of two eggs beat well together; put it in a stewpan, and with a Avhisk stir it quick till it boils ; let it simmer on the side of the fire for ten minutes, and then run it several times through a tammis cloth, or jelly bag, as you do other jellies, till it is perfectly clear and bright; pour it over your meat or foAA’ls, in the dish on which you send them up : (it is a A’ery pre- possessing varnish;) many cut it in bits, and garnish with it. Obs. —This may be flavoured Avith elder or tarragon vinegar.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 417 J{tissia7i Sauce for Cold Meat. — (No. 358.) Two tablespoonsful of grated horseradish, two teaspoonsful of made mustard, one of salt, one of powdered lump sugar, and vinegar as much as will cover these ingredients. Obs. — An excellent sauce for cold meat, and, added to melted butter, it makes a very good fish sauce. Grate or scrape the horse- radish as fine as possible. Sauce for Cold Meat, Poultry/, Sjc. (No. 359.) Wash, bone, and pound an anchovy in a marble or wcdgewood mortar, with the yolks of two eggs that have been boiled hard ; add to it by degrees three tablespoonsful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and two of shallot wine (No. 402), or basil vinegar, (No. 397); when these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add two tablespoonsful of salad oil; rub it up well till it is incorporated with the mixture, and jiass it through a sieve.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 418 Sauce for Hashes of Mutton or Beef. (No. .860.) See also (Nos. 451, 485, and 486.) To prepare the meat, see (No. 484.) Chop the bones and fragments of the joint, &c., and put them into a stewpan, with a pint of boiling water, six berries of black pepper, and the same of allspice, a small bundle of parsley, half a head of celery cut in pieces, and a small sprig of savory, lemon-thyme, or sweet marjoram; cover up, and let it boil for half an hour. Slice half an ounce of onion and put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, fn,’ it over a sharp fire for two minutes, till it takes a little colour; then stir in as much Hour as will make it a stiff paste, and by degrees mix with it the gravy you have made from the bones, &c.; and let it boil very gently for a quarter of an hour; strain it through a tammis into a basin; put it back into the stewpan; toieoion* • Unless you are quite sure you perfectly iimlerstand the palate of those you are working for, show those who are to eat the hash this Receipt, and beg of them to direct you how they wish it seasoned: ha(f the miinher of the ingredients enumerated above will be419 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. it, see (No. 451), or cut in a few pickled onions, or walnuts, or a couple of gherkins cut in thin slices, and a tablespoonful of nuishrooin catsup, or lemon pickle, or walnut or other pickle liijuor, or some capers and caper liquor, or a table- spoonful of table beer or ale ; cover the bottom of the dish with sippets of bread, (that they may become savoury reservoirs of gravy,) toasted, and cut into triangles. You may garnish it with fried bread sippets, (No. 319.) N.B. To hash meat in perfection, it should be laid in this gravy only just long enough to get properly warm. Obs.—If any of the gravy that was sent up with, or ran from the joint when it was roasted be left, it will be a great improvement to the hash. If you wish it to eat like venison, instead of the onion put in two or three cloves, a table- spoonful of currant jelly, and the same quantity of Port wine. N. B. A pint of (No. 329), is an excellent gravy to warm a hash in. enough for most people; but as it is a receipt so often wanted in moderate families, we have given every variety we could think, of. See also (No. 486.)420 GKAVIES AND SAUCES. Sauce for Hashed or Minced Veal. (No. 361.) Take the bones of cold roast or boiled veal, dredge them well with flour, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint of broth or water, a small onion, a little grated lemon-peel, or the peel of a quarter of a small lemon pared as thin as possible, half a teaspoonful of salt, a couple of blades of pounded mace, and to thicken it, rub a tablespoonful of flour into half an ounce of butter; stir it into the broth, and set it on the fire, and let it boil very gently half an hour, strain through a sieve, and it is ready to put to the veal to warm up. Squeeze in half a lemon, and cover the bottom of the dish with toasted bread sippets cut into triangles. White Gravy Sauce. — (No. 362.) See alto (No. 364.) To a pound of lean juicy veal, notched and floured, put a quart of water. Let it stew very gently for an hour, i. e. till the goodness is extracted from the meat, without drawing it to the dregs: about a quarter of an hour before it is done, put to it a bit of lemon-peel. When done, strain it carefully, skim off the fat, andGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 421 put a tablespoonful of thickening, (No. 2,) to it. Season with white pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon. %* An onion or some sweet herbs, may be added. To make Marinade. —(No. 363.) To a pint of beef gravy add a wineglass of vinegar, a teaspoonful of ground black pepper, four cloves bruised, an onion sliced, a sprig of thyme, and some salt; let these simmer to- gether for half an hour, and strain through a tine sieve. Obs.—This is called marinade; and when any thing is soaked for three or four hours in such a mixture, it is said to be marinaded. We had the following sent us, by an anony- mous friend at Kensington. Marinade for Fish. “ To marinade a sole or other fish.—Take a large sole and fry it in oil sufficient to cover it, put it in when the oil is boiling hot; when it is crisp lay it to drain till it is cold; then take some white-wine vinegar and oil, of each an equal quantum, with some salt, white pepper, nutmeg, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, savory, and a couple of onions; let them boil together o 0GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 422 fora quarter of an hour; put the sole into a stewpan, pour the marinade to it hot; put in as much oil as white-wine vinegar, which must be according to the quantity of the sole (which is done,) as the liquor must cover it, and it will then keep a month. Serve it up with oil, vine- gar and green onion.” Bechamel, by l^nglish Cooks commonly White Sauce. — (No. 364.) Cut a quarter of a pound of lean ham, and a pound of veal into small dice, put it into a two quart stewpan, with three ounees of butter, two small young onions tied up with a sprig of parsley, with a blade of maee, or a couple of cloves, (and half a dozen mushrooms if you have them,) and set the stewpan over a clear slow stove to reduce; stir up the ingredients with a wooden spoon, and take care they do not catch colour, shake in two tablespoonsful of fine sifted flour, and turn it about and incor- porate it with the sauce; when it is well mixed, moisten it by degrees with a pint and a half of new milk, taking care to keep your stewpan moving, that the ingredients may not catch; let it boil over a brisk fire for an hour; if it gets too thick, add some more milk. Do not put in4-23 GRAVIES AND SADCES. o o 2 any salt, as the ham will make it salt enough; strain through a tammis. In fact, if common veal broth be boiled, with a bit of mace, scum- med, thickened with flour and butter, and thinned again with some more veal broth, boiled a quarter of an hour longer, till it is reduced to the same quantity it was before you added the veal broth, passed through a tine sieve, or tammis, and have a sufficient quantity of cream to make it white, and just simmered together for five minutes, (but not suffered to boil,) you will have a genuine Bechamel. Obs.—Bechamel im})lies a thick white sauce, approaching to a batter, and takes its name from a wealthy French Marquess, maitre d'hotcl (le Louis XIV, and famous for his patronage of les ojlicicrs de bouche, who have immortalized him by calling by his name this delicate com- jjosition. Most of the French sauces take their name from the person whose palate they first pleased, as “ d la IShiintenonor from some famous cook who invented them, as “ Sauce Robert,” “ d la Moutizeur,’’ &c. We have in the English kitchen, our “ Argyll” for Gravy, and the little “Sandwich” monuments “ «tc perenmus.” By my ZEST, (Nos. 255, and 33b,) I also put in my claim to immortality of fame.424 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Poivrade Sauce.— (No. 365.) • Mince fine a small onion, put it into a quart stevvpan, with a little butter, and a shallot shred fine, or a very little bit of garlick, with cloves, sweet herbs, and basil, if you like their flavour; when it has fried a few minutes, add half a pint of beef or veal gravy, or warm water, and a tablespoonful of vinegar; then skim and strain it well; thicken it with a little flour and butter, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Obs.—This sauce is very much used among foreigners: whoever has looked into their books of Cookery, will remember they order many of their dishes to be sent up with “ Poivradeby which may generally be un- derstood, a sauce, in the composition of which, an acid flavour is predominant. Poivrade Sauce cold. —(No. 366.) Behead and bone two anchovies, pound them in a marble mortar, with two tablespoonsful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of made mustard, some parsley leaves, and a shallot minced fine ; when well mixed, add vinegar to your taste, pass it425 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. o 0 3 through a liair sieve, and season it with pepper and salt. Ohs.—A very good sauce for cold meat. Sauce Tournee. —(No. 367.) , Have ready a pint of beef or veal broth in aJ quart stewpan; put into another stewpan an •' ounce of butter; when it is melted, shake in as much flour as will make it a stiff paste ; stir till it is well mixed, but be careful not to let it catch colour: mix this with the broth, and stir till it is smooth ; season it with a small bundle of young onions and parsley, and six berries of allspice, (and a few mushrooms if you have them;) cover your stewpan closely, set it on the corner of the stove to simmer gently for an hour, and strain your sauce through a tammis. Sauce Teloute.— (No. 368.) Pour four tablespoonsful of sauce tournee into a pint stewpan; when the sauce is hot, put in two tablespoonsful of good thick cream ; season with a little salt; strain through a tammis, and send it up hot. Ohs. — This is also from the French kitchen, and is, only a richer preparation of sauce tournee.426 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Must,ard in a Minute. — (No. 3CQ.) Mix very gradually together, in a marble or wedgewood mortar, an ounce of flour of mustard, with three tablespoonsful of milk, (cream is better,) half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same ‘'of sugar. Obs.—Mustard made in this manner, is not at all bitter, and may therefore be instantly brought to table. Mustard to make.—’(No. 370.) Mix (by degrees, by rubbing together in a mortar,) the best Durham flour of mustard, with cold water in which scraped horseradish has been boiled, rub it well together till it is per- fectly smooth: keep it in a stone jar, closely stopped : only put as much into the mustard pot as will be used in a day or two. The ready made keeping mustard, prepared at the oil shops, is mixed with about one fourth part salt; this is useful to preserve it, if it is to be kept long; otherwise , by all means omit it. The best way of eating salt, is in substance. See also Recipe, (No. 427.) Obs.—Some opulent Epicures, mix their Mus- tard with sherry or Madeira wine, or distilled or flavoured Vinegar, instead of horseradish water.427 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. The French flavour their mustard with Cham- paigne, and other wines, capers, anchovies, tar- ragon or elder vinegar, garlick, shallot, celery, the various spices, and sweet, savoury, and fine herbs, and truffles, &c. &c. and seem to con- sider mustard, merely as a vehicle of flavours. Salt. —{No. .371.) Common Salt, is more relishing than basket salt; it should bo prepared for the table by drying it in a Dutch oven before the fire; then put it on clean paper, and roll it with a rolling pin; or, what is still better, pound it in a mortar till it is quite fine, and it will look as well as basket salt. Select for table use, the lumps o f salt. Obs. — Your Salt Box must have a close cover, and be kept in a dry place. Salad Mixture. — (No. 3/2.) Boil a couple of Eggs for ten minutes, and put them into a basin of cold water for half an hour; the yolks must be quite cold and hard, or they will not incorporate with the ingredients. Hub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon,428 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. and mix them with a tablespoonful of water, (cream is infinitely better,) then add four table- spoonsful of vinegar; when these are well mixed, add by degrees, a teaspoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and the same of made mustard; when these are smoothly united, add very gradually, three tablespoonsful of oil, and rub it M'ith the other ingredients till tho- roughly incorporated with them; cut up the white of the egg and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the salad bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. Obs.—Salad is a very compound dish with our neighbours the French; the Italians mince the white meat of Chickens into this sauce; the Dutch do the same with Lobster. This mixture is sometimes made with cream, or oiled butter, see (No. 260*,) (which many prefer to the finest Florence oil) instead of oil, and fla- voured with salad mixture (No. 453,) basil, (No. 397,) cucumber catsup, (No. 445,) tarragon, or elder vinegar; essence of celery, (No. 409,) lemon pickle, essence of anchovy, (No. 433 ;) of these we prefer the basil vinegar, (No. 397.) Messrs. Burgess, No. 107, Strand, sell an excellent Sauce for increasing the piquance of the Salad Mixture.429 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. FORCEMEAT, STUFFINGS, (No. 37S.) Forcemeat, is now considered an indispensable accompaniment to most made dishes, and wlien composed with good taste, gives additional spirit and relish to even that “ Sovereign of Savouriness,” Turtle soup. It is also sent up in patties, and for stuffing of veal, game, poultry, &c. The ingredients, should be so proportioned, that no one flavour predominates, and instead of giving the same stuffing for veal, hare, &c., with a little contrivance, you may make as great a variety as you have dishes. I have given receipts for a dozen of the most favourite compositions, and a Table of materials, a glance at which will enable the ingenious cook to make an infinite variety of combinations: the first column containing the spirit, the second the substance of them. The poignancy of force- meat, should be proportioned to the savouriness of the viands, to which it is iixtended to give an additional Zest. What would be piquante in a Turkey, would be insipid with Turtle. Tastes are so different, and the praise the Cook re- ceives will depend so much on her pleasing the palate of those she works for, that all her sagacity must be exercised to produce the fla- vours to which her employers are partial. MostGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 430 people have an acquired and peculiar taste in stuffings, &c., and what exactly pleases one, seldom is precisely what another considers the most agreeable ; and after all, “ Tlie very dish one likes the best, “ Is acid, or insipid to the rest.” The consistency of forcemeats is rather a difficult thing to manage; they are almost always either too light or too heavy ; this is generally owing to a predominance of either the yolk or the white of the eggs that the ingre- dients are mixed with, the former being the basis of firmness, the latter of lightness. Take care to pound it till perfectly smooth, and to mix all the ingredients thoroughly together till they are completely incorporated. Forcemeat balls, must not be larger than a small nutmeg. N. B. If not of sufficient stiffness, it falls to pieces, and makes soup, &c. grouty and very unsightly.431 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Materials used for Forcemeat, Stuffings, &c. Spirit. Common thyme."! I.emon thyme. Orange thyme. Sweet marjoram. Summer and Winter Savory. Tarragon. Chervil. Burnet. Basil. Bay leaf. Truffles and Morells. Mushroom Powder. Leeks. Onions. Eshallot. Garlick. I.emon-peel, see (Nos. 407, and 408.) s O) O) Sm bX) a d c/3 U U- Substance. Flour. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. Spinaeh. Boiled onion. Yolks of hard eggs. Mutton. Beef. Veal suet*, or marrow. Calf’s udder. Parboiled sweetbread. Veal minced and pounded, and Potted Meats, &c. * If you have no suet, tlie best substitute for it is about one third part the quantity of butter.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 432 Spirit. I Substance. Shrimps. j Prawns. Lobsters. i Oysters. Anchovy. Dressed tongue. Ham. Bacon. j Black or white pepper. | Allspice. Mace. Cinnamon. Ginger. Nutmegs. Cloves. Curry powder (No. 455.) Cayenne. Zest. See (No. 255.) ' For liquids, you have Lemon juice, Essence of Anchovy, see (No. 433), the various vegetable Essences, see (No. 407), and the following Receipts, mushroom or walnut catsup, and the whites and yolks of eggs.433 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. J eal Stuffing.— (No. 374.) lUincc a quarter of a pound of beef suet, (beef marrow is better,) tlie same weight of bread crumbs, a drachm of parsley, a drachm and a half of sweet marjoram, or winter savory, or lemon-thyme, and the same of lemon-peel chopped as fine as possible, a little grated nut- meg, pepper and salt; pound thoroughly to- gether with the yolk of two eggs, and white of one, and secure it in the veal with a skewer, or sew it in with a bit of twine. Make up some of it into balls, and send them up a garnish for, or in a side dish, with roast poultry, or veal, or cutlets, &c. Obs.—Good stuffing, has always been con- sidered such a chej'-d'ccuvre in Cookery; it has given immortality to one artist. “ Poor Roger Fowler had a generous mind. Nor would submit to liave his liand confin’d. Hut aimed at all, yet never could excel In any thing but stuffing of his veal.’’ King’s Art of Cookery, p. 113. r P434 GRAVIE3 and sauces. V^al Forcemeat. — (No. 375.) Of undressed lean veal, after you have scraped it quite fine, and free it from skin and sinews, two ounces, the same quantity of beef or veal suet, the same of bread crumbs, chop fine one drachm of parsley, one of lemon-peel, one of sweet herbs, one of onion, and half a drachm of allspice, (beaten to fine powder;) pound all together in a mortar, and break into it the yolk and white of an egg; rub it all up well together, and season it with a little pepper and salt. For the above, the Editor is indebted to M. Birch, Cook to Dr. Kitchiner. Obs. — This, is sometimes made more savoury, by the addition of anchovies, eshallots, or Cayenne, or Curry powder, &c. Stuffing for Roast Turkey, Capon, or Fouls. (No. 376.) Chop fine, a quarter of a pound of beef or veal suet, the same quantity of fine bread cmmbs, an ounce of fat ham or bacon (that has been boiled), a drachm of lemon-thyme, same of parsley and lemon-peel, all chopped fine, or gra- ted, a small shallot, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to palate: mix thoroughly together, with the yolk and white of an egg, to bind it.435 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Stuffing for Boiled Turkey. — (No. 377.) Either take the above composition for the roast turkey, or add the soft part of a dozen oysters to it, and an anchovy if you like it still more relishing. Pork sausage meat is sometimes used to stuff turkies and fowls. Goose or Duck Stujfiug. — (No. 378.) Chop fine, two large onions, i. e. about two ounces, a handful of green sage, (both unboiled,) and a little pepper and salt; some add to this a minced apple. For another, see Roast Goose, and Duck, (Nos. 59 and 61.) Jpicius's Stuffing for Hare. — (No. 379.) Two ounces of beef suet chopped fine, three ounces of fine bread crumbs, parsley a drachm, shallot half a drachm, or a small an- chovy, a drachm of marjoram or lemon-thyme, or winter-savory, a drachm of grated lemon- peel, half a drachm of nu,tmeg, and the same of pepper and salt; mix these with the white and yolk of two eggs, (if your stuffing is not p p 2GUAVIES AND SAUCES. 436 stiff enough, it will be good for nothing,) put it in the hare, and sew it up. If the liter is quite sound, you may add that to the above. Forcemeat Balls for Turtle, Mock Turtle, or Made Dishes. — (No. 380.) See also (No. 375.) Take a large breakfastcupful of bread crumbs, rubbed through a cullender, put them into a pint stewpan with a tablespoonful of the soup, as much parsley chopped fine, and stir them over the fire till it is quite a stiff paste; mix with the yolk of an egg; take it out of the stewpan, and put it on a plate to get cold ; mince very fine, an ounce of suet, half a dozen leaves of common or lemon-thyme, the same of savory, and the like number of knots of sweet marjoram ; beat them together in a mor- tar, and season them with as much pepper as will lay on a sixpence, and the same quantity of nutmeg and salt; roll up a ball as big as a nutmeg, and try it in a little boiling water; if it is too light, add to it another egg, and a little more flour, and mix it well together again. Roll your forcemeat into a sausage, about asGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 4157 L big as your ring finger, and divide it into equal portions of about half an inch long, round these into little balls, and if you wish them a light colour, throw them into boiling water for a couple of minutes ; take them out with a fish slice, and lay them on a hair sieve to dry. If you like them Brown, fry them. From E. Stevenson, Cook, No. 106, High Street, Mary-le-bone. See (No. 245.) Or, Pound some Veal in a marble mortar, rub it through a sieve with as much of the udder as you have veal, or about a third the quantity of butter; put some bread crumbs into a stewpan, moisten them with milk, add a little chopped parsley and shallot, rub them well together in a mortar, till they form a smooth paste ; put it through a sieve, and when cold, pound and mix all together, with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard; season it with salt, pepper, and Curry powder, add to it the yolks of two raw eggs, rub it well together, and make small balls; ten minutes before your soup is ready put them in. *** By the French artist, who gave us the receipt to dress a Turtle, 4-c. See (No. 250.) p p 3GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 438 Egg Balls.—(No. 3S1.) Boil four Eggs for ten minutes, and put them into cold water, put the yolks into a mortar with the yolk of a raw egg, a teaspoonful of flour, same of chopped parsley, as much salt as will lay on a shilling, and a little pepper, rub well together, roll them into small balls, (as they swell in boiling,) and boil them a couple of minutes. Brain Balls. See (No. 247,) or beat up the brains in the way we have above directed the egg. Curry Balls — (No. 382.) Are made with bread crumbs, the yolk of an egg boiled hard, and a bit of fresh butter about half as big, are to be beaten together in a mor- tar, and seasoned with Curry powder, see (No. 455); make and prepare small balls as directed in the last receipt. Soup-herb Poxccler Balls. —(^o. 383.) Sec (No. 467.)439 GRAVIES AMD SAUCES. Suvourj/ Pozcder Balls. — (No. 384.) See (No. 465.) Soup-herb and Savoury Powder Balls. (No. 385.) See (No. 460.) Zest Balls.—(No. 386.) See (No. 255.) The above are all made and prepared in the same way. Orange or Lemon-Peel, to mix zvith Stuffing. (No. 387.) Peel a Seville orange or lemon very thin, taking off only the fine yellow rind, (without any of the white,) pound it in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of lump sugar, rub it well with the peel, by degrees add a little of the forcemeat it is to be mixed with ; when it is well ground and blended with this, take it out of the mortar, and mix it with the whole; there is no other way of incorporating it so well. Forcemeats, &c. are frequently spoiled by the unequal mixing of the ingredients.440 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. M. Birch’s Receipt for Mock Cream. • (No. 388.) Mix half a tablespoonful of flour, with a pint of new milk ; let it simmer five minutes, to take off the rawness of the flour; then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boiling, and strain it through a fine sieve. Raspberry I'inegar. — (No. 390.) Take fine fresh gathered red raspberries that have been well picked; put them into a wooden or china bowl, with as much good distilled wine vinegar as will cover them; bruise and stir them frequently for three or four days ; strain them ; and to every pint of the liquor add a pound of lump sugar; boil for a quarter of an hour, taking off the scum as it rises; add to each pint a glass of brandy, and bottle it: mixed in about eight parts of water, it is a very refreshing and delightful summer drink. A most excellent cooling beverage to assuage thirst in fevers, and colds, &c., and is agreeable to most palates.441 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Syrup of Lemons. — (No. 391 •) The best Season for Lemons, is from Novem- ber to March. A pint of fresh lemon juice, to a pound and three quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a gentle heat, scum it, till the surface is quite clear, and add an ounce of thin cut lemon-peel; let them all simmer f very gently) together for a few minutes.—When cold, bottle and cork it closely, and keep it in a cool place. Or, Dissolve three cpiarters of an ounce of crystal- lized lemon-acid in a pint of clarified syrup, (No. 475,) flavour it with the peel, with (No. 408,) or dissolve the Lemon-acid in syrup of Lemon-peel, made as (No. 393.) The Justice's Orange Syrup, for Puddings. (No. .392.) Scpieezc the oranges, and strain the juice from the pulp into a large pot; boil it up, with a pound and a half of fine sugar to each pint of juice; skim it well, let it stand till cold, and then bottle it, and cork it well.442 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Syrup of Orange or Lemon-Peel.—(No. 393.) Of fresh outer rind of Seville orange or lemon- peel, three ounces, apothecaries’ weight; boiling water, a pint and a half; infuse them for a night in a close vessel; then strain the liquor; let it stand to settle; and having poured it otf clear from the sediment, dissolve in it two pounds of double refined loaf sugar, and make it into a syrup with a gentle heat. Obs.—In making this syrup, if the sugar be dissolved in the infusion with as gentle a heat as possible, to prevent the exhalation of the volatile parts of the peel, this syrup will possess a great share of the fine flavour of the orange, or lemon-peel. Syrup of Nutmegs. —(No. 394.) Nutmegs grated, two ounces; boiling water, a pint; digest in a close vessel for twenty-four hours; strain, and add to it a pound of double refined and powdered loaf sugar, and an egg beat up with a little cold water; boil up to- gether, skim it perfectly clean, and reduce it to a syrup: when cold, add a quarter pint ot brandy to it. Obs. — This syrup is strongly impregnated443 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. L with the nutmeg, and is a most agreeable and convenient ingredient in puddings, &c., and all sweet dishes in which nutmegs are used. Cloves, cinnamon, and other spices, may be prepared in the same manner. ‘\t/rup of Vinegar, — (No. 395.) Let two pints and a half of the best distilled wine V'inegar, be boiled with three pounds and a half of lump sugar, till a syrup is formed ; this solution, is a very pleasant and cheap sub- stitute for the syrup of Lemons. The juice of mulberries, raspberries, and black currants, may be incorporated with syrup in a similar way; and are cooling, pleasant drinks, which may be advantageously employed for mitigating thirst in bilious and inrtammatory disorders. Tarragon Tinegar. —(No. 396.) This very agreeable addition to soup and salad sauce, is thus made. Put a quarter pound of fresh gathered Tarragon leaves (which should be gathered just before it flowers,) into a jar, with a quart of the best distilled wine vinegar, tor the space of fourteen days, in a warm situation, when it should be strained through a444 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Hannel bag; add a drachm of isinglass, and put it into a dry jar; let it stand four-and- twenty hours, till it is fine; pour it into half pint bottles; cork them carefully, and keep them in a dry place. Obs.—You may prepare Elder-flower, and other vinegars in the same manner: elder and tarragon are those in most general use in this country. Our neighbours, the French, prepare Vinegars flavoured with celery, cucumbers, cap- sicums, garlick; onion, capers, burnet, truffles, Seville orange-peel, ginger; in short, they im- pregnate them with almost every herb, fruit, flower and spice separately, and in innumerable combinations. Basil Pinegar or JVme. — (No. 397.) Steep two ounces of dried and tifted Sweet Basil, (this is in full perfection about the middle of August,) in a pint of the best white-wine vinegar, or white wine, for fourteen days, or a better way is to fill a wide mouthed bottle with the fresh green leaves of Basil, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep as above; it you wish a very strong essence, after the first fourteen days, strain the liquor on some fresh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days more.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 445 Obs.—This is a very agreeable aihlilion to Sauces, Soups, and made dishes; and imparls an inviting relish to the mixture usually made for Salads, sec (No. 372.) It is a secret, the makers of Mock Turtle, may thank us for telling; that this, will im- pregnate their soup, with the Basil and Acid flavours, at very small cost, when fresh Basil and Lemons are extravagantly dear. The flavour of the other Sweet and Savoury herbs. Celery, &c. may be procured and presel^ed in the same manner. Green Mint Vinegar,—(No. 398.) I Is made precisely in the same manner, and with the same proportions, as the preceding receipt. Obs.—In the early Season of Hoiised-Lamb, green mint is sometimes not to be got; the above is then a welcome substitute. Essence of I'inegar. — (No. 399.) During the intense frosts of winter, put some vinegar into shallow dishes, and the watery parts will be converted into ice; while the spirituous, or acetous basis, remains in a fluid state; by repeating this process, one pint of strong vinegar may, in very cold seasons, be. reduced to a few tablespoonsful of the essence. Q QGRAVIES AND SAUCES, 446 Garlick Vinegar. — (No. 400.) Chop two ounces of Garlick very fine, pour on them a quart of boiling hot white-wine vine- gar, stop the jar very close, and let it steep ten days, shaking it well every day, then pour off the clear liquor into small bottles. Obs. — The Cook must be careful not to use too much of this; a few drops of it will give a pint of gravy a sufficient snack of the Garlick ; the flavour of which, when slight and well blended, is one of the finest ingredients we have; although when used in excess, it is the most offensive: the best way to use Garlick, is to send up some of this Vinegar in a Cruet, and let the company flavour their own Sauce as they like. N. B. The most elegant preparation of the Onion Tribe, is the Esiiallot Wine (No. 402.) Es/tallot Vinegar — (No. 401.) Is made in the same manner, and the Cook should never be without so useful an auxiliary : it costs scarcely any thing, but the little trouble of making it, and will save her an immense deal of trouble in Havouring all Soups and Sauces that she wishes to give a taste of (i)nion.447 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. N. B. Eshallots are in higli perfection for this purpose from the beginning of September. EshALLOT Wine.—(No. 402.') Infuse three ounces of Eshallots, (minced fine,) in a pint of Wine for ten days, then pour off the clear liquor on three ounces more shallots, and let the wine stand on them ten days longer. Ohs. — This is rather the most expensive, but infinitely the most elegant preparation of Eshallot, and imparts the Onion flavour to Soups and Sauces, more agreeably than any; it also does not leave any unpleasant taste in the mouth or to the breath, which all the other prepara- tions of garlick, onion, &c. do. N. B. An ounce of scniped horseradish may be added to the above, and same of Lemon-peel. Camp Vinegar. — (No. 403.) Cayenne pepper, one drachm, avoirdupoise weight. Soy, two tablespoonsful. Walnut catsup, ditto. Six anchovies chopped. A small clove of garlick minced fine. Steep all for a month in a pint of best vinegar, y Q 2GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 448 frequently shaking the bottle : strain through a tammis, and keep it in small bottles, corked as tightly as possible. Brochard Sauce, for Cold Meat.—(No. 404.) Six shallots, minced fine. Two tablespoonsful of made mustard. Six anchovies pounded. Half a pint of vinegar. Four tablespoonsful of sweet oil. Two teaspoonsful of ground black pepper. Same of salt, and the rind of a lemon. Bottle it. Essence of Cayenne. — (No. 405.) Put an ounce of Cayenne pepper into half a pint of wine or proof spirit; let it steep for a fortnight, and then pour off the clear liquor. This is nearly equal to fresh Chili juice. Obs. — A few drops, will be found extremely convenient for the extempore seasoning and finishing of Soup, Sauces, &c., its flavour being instantly and equally ditt’nsed.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 449 Chili Vinegar—'(No. 405.*) Is made by infusing an ounce of fresh Red Chillies in a pint of the best vinegar for a fort- night, or half the quantity of Cayenne pepper. Obs.—Many people cannot eat fish without the addition of an acid, and Cayenne pepper; to such palates this will be an agreeable relish. Chili Wine.—(No. 405.**) Pound and steep 50 fresh Red Chilies in a quarter pint of white wine for 14 days. Obs.-—This is a “ Bonne Bouche” for the lovers of Cayenne, of which it takes up a larger proportion of its flavour, than of its fire. Prepared Lemon Juice, for Punch, &;c. (No. 406.) In the following manner, you may prepare and preserve the juice of lemons, limes, or oranges, for punch, lemonade, iced creams, &c. Pare very thin, or rasp off the outside rinds of the fruit with a bread grater, till you have got about a fjuarter pint of them; put them into a wide mouthed bottle, pour in half a pint of good brandy, and set the bottle in a warm situation for three days, frequently shaking it Q Q 34.')0 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. up. Then squeeze as much fruit as will yield a quart of juice : let it settle, and run it through a flannel bag; squeeze the brandy from the rinds, and add it to the juice of the fruits; bottle it, and cork it well. Obs.—This will keep some time; and make the finest punch, &c., by only adding sugar, spirits, water, &c. to the palate. Essence of Lemon-Peel. — (No. 407.) Wash and brush clean the Lemons; let them get perfectly dry; take a lump of loaf sugar, and rub them till all the yellow rind is taken up by the sugar; scrape oft’ the surface of the sugar into a preserving pot, and press it hard down; cover it very close, and it will keep for some time. In the same way you may get the essence of Seville orange-peel. Obs. — This method of procuring and pre- serving the flavour of Lemon-peel, by making an Oleu-sacchanm, is far superior, to the common practice of paring off the rind, or grating it, and pounding or mixing that with sugar: in this process, you obtain the whole of the fine, fi'agrant, essential oil, in which is contained the flavour.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 451 Quint-Essence of Lemon-Peel.— (No. 408.) Best oil of lemon, one drachm. Strongest spirit of wine, two ounces, introduced by degrees, till the spirit kills or overpowers, and completely mixes with the oil. This is a most elegant and useful preparation, possessing all the delightful fragrance and flavour of the freshest Lemon-peel. Obs.—A few drops on the sugar you make punch with, will instantly impregnate it with as much flavour as the troublesome and tedious method of grating the rind, or rubbing the sugar on it. It will be found a superlative sub- stitute for fresh lemon-peel, for every purpose that it is used for; blanc mange, jellies, custards, ice, negus, lemonade, and pies, puddings, stuf- fings, soups, sauces, and ragouts, to which it immediately gives a most delicious Zest.452 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Tincture of Lemon-Peel. — (No. 408.*) A very easy and oeconomical way of obtaining: and preserving the flavour of Lemon-peel, is to fill a wide mouthed pint bottle half full of Brandy, and when you use a Lemon, pare the rind off very thin, and put it into the brandy; in a fortnight, it will impregnate the spirit with the flavour so strongly, that a teaspoonful will be enough to give a Zest to half a pint of Grog. Essence of Celery.—(No. 409.) Proof spirit, two ounces. Celery seed bruised, half an ounce, avoirdu- poise weight. Let it steep for a fortnight; set the bottle for the first two or three days, where it will receive a heat of from 60 to SO degrees. Fahrenheit’s thermometer. Ohs. — A few drops will immediately favour a pint oj broth, and are an excellent addition to pease and other soups ; the salad mixture of oil. vinegar, &c. N. B. To make Celery sauce, see (No. 280.)GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 4o3 Preserved Juice of Fruits zcilhout Sugar. (No. 410.) Raspberries, strawberries, mulberries, elcler- berries, black, red, and white currants. When full ripe, gather them perfectly dry; pick and clean them from stalks and leaves, and put them into a preserving pan over a slow charcoal fire : mash them to a pvdp, and turn them into a stone pan; cover down with a cloth till they are cool; press out all the juice, and run it through a jelly bag; and to each quart add a quarter pint of brandy, or half that quantity of strong spirit of wine : cork down in clean, dry bottles: kept in a good cellar, it will be good for two years, for all the purposes of iced creams, jellies, and cooling beverage, by adding the juice of lemons, sugar, &c. itc. Fsseuce of Ginger. — (No. 411.) Four ounces of powdered ginger in a quart of proof spirit, apothecaries’ measure ; let it stand for ten days, shaking it up each day. Obs.—’This would be more properly called “Tincture of ginger;” however, as it has ob- tained the name of “ Essence,” so let it be called.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 454 Essence of Allspice. — (No. 412.) Oil of pimento, a drachm, apothecaries’ mea- sure. Strong spirit of wine, two ounces, mixed by degrees; a few drops will give the flavour of allspice to a pint of gravy, or for mulled wine, &c. Tincture of Allspice. — (No. 41.S.) Of Allspice bruised, three ounces, apothe- caries’ weight. Brandy, a quart. Let it steep a fortnight, occasionally shaking it up ; then pour off the clear liquor; it is a most grateful addition in all cases where Allspice is used, fur ?naking mulled wine e.rtempore, or in gravies, &c. Essence of Clove and Mace. — (No. 414.) Strongest spirit of wine, two ounces, apothe- caries’ measure. Oil of nutmeg, or clove, or mace, a drachm, apothecaries’ measure.455 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Tincture of Clove. — (No. 415.) ^ Cloves bruised, three ounces, apothecaries’ weight. Proof spirit of wine, two pints. Let it steep ten days; strain it through a i riannel sleeve. ' % Essence of Cinnamon. — (No. 416.) Strongest rectified spirit of wine, two ounces. Oil of cinnamon, one drachm, apothecaries’ I measure. Essence of Marjoram. — (No. 417-) t Strong rectified spirit, two ounces. | Oil of origanum, one drachm, apothecaries' ' measure. / egelable Essences. — (No. 417.*) The Havour of the various sweet and savoury herbs, may be obtained by picking the leaves and laying them for a couple of hours in a warm place to dry, and then filling a large mouth bottle with them, and pouring on them wine, or * proof spirit, and letting them steep for fourteen days. I UGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 456 Alum Fini)tgs^ for clarifying Spirituous and Oleose Cordials, Compounds, S^'c. (No. 418.) Boil a tlraclim of alnm in a pint of water, till it is reduced to half a pint: ten drops, made as warm as new milk, are sufficient to fine a quart of liquor: shake the bottle well two or three times a day, for three or four days, care- fully giving it vent each time. Spirit of Szoeet-TIerbs*, fur Broths, Sc. (No. 419.) Rectified spirit of wine, two ounces. Oil of origanum, a drachm Lemon-thyme, Sweet marjoram, and Winter-savory, dried and rubbed through a sieve, a drachm of each. Celery seed, half a drachm: Minced eshallots, a drachm; all the above ingredients apothecaries’ measure. Let it have fourteen days to digest. * For tlie season, <fvrc. wlicn these herbs, i!ve. eonic in perfection, .sec (No. Kit.)457 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Soup Herb* Spirit.—(No. 420.) or common thyme, Lemon-thyme, inter-savory, .Sweet marjoram. Fresh lemon-peel, Sweet basil, each three drachms. Bay leaves, Mint, Sage, and Celery seed, half a drachm each; all the above avoirdnpoise weight. To be dried, and rubbed through a sieve, and infused in a pint and a quarter of brandy, or proof spirit for ten days; this may also be injhsed in wiiic or riiiegar, but neither, extract tlie flavour of the ingredients half so well as the spirit. Spirit of Savoury Spice. — (No. 421.) Black pepper and Allspice pounded fine, three quarters of an ounce each. Nutmeg grated, quarter of an ounce, avoirdu- poise weight. * l-’or tlic season, &c. when these herbs, &:c. conic ill iicifectioii, see (No. 461.) n riGRAVIES AND SAUCES, 458 Infuse in a pint and a quarter of proof spirit for ten days, or if you don’t mind the expense, infuse the ingredients enumerated in (No. 457,) in a quart of proof spirit for fourteen days. Soitp-herby and Savoury Spice Spirit. (No. 422.) Mix half a pint of Soup-herb spirit with a quarter pint of spirit of Savoury spice. Obs.— These preparations, are most invaluable auxiliaries to immediately heighten theJlavour, and finish soups, sauces, ragouts, Sj-c., and made dishes; will save much time and trouble to the Cook, and keep for twenty years. Relish for Chops, &)C. — (No. 423.) Pound fine, half an ounce of black pepper, and the same of Allspice, with an ounce of salt; mince fine an ounce of eshallots, put these ingredients into a pint of mushroom catsup, and set the bottle for twenty-four hours where it will receive a heat of about ninety degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer; let it steep a week, and then strain it. Obs. — A teaspoonful or two of this is gene- rally a very acceptable addition, mixed with the gravy usually sent up for cliops and steaks ; see (No. 356.)gravies and sauces. 459 Receipt for QUJN’s Sauce. — (No. 424.) A pint and a half of strong old Walnut liquor. A pound and a half of Anchovies. A quarter of an ounce eaeh of Mace, Cloves, And fine Jamaica pepper. Half a teaspoonful of Cayenne. Twenty-four eshallots, and Two ounces of scraped horseradish. To be boiled together, and the liquor strained therefrom. This sauce is prepared as above by Messrs. Ball, oilman, &c. 81, New Bond Street, Lon- don ; where may be had also, all kinds oj Pickles, of the best quality. Fish Sauce. — (No. 425.) Two wineglasses of Port, and two of walnut pickle; double that quantity of mushroom catsup; a dozen anchovies pounded, the like number of eshallots sliced, a tablespoonful of soy, and a small saltspoonful of Cayenne pepper: let them simmer gently for ten minutes, strain it, and when cold, put it into half pint R R 2GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 460 bottles; well corked and sealed over, it will keep for a considerable time. Obs.—This is commonly called Qums-Sance, and was given to me by a very sagacious sauce- maker. Fish Sauce. —(1^0. 426.) Take six Anchovies, as many Eshallots and blades of mace, a tablespoonfid of scraped horseradish, half a pint of white wine, the rind (pared thin,) and the juice of a large lemon; boil all together till reduced to a quai'ter pint, strain it, and add two tablespoonsful of Catsup, or one of Soy. Keej)i)ig Mustard. — (No. 427.) Dissolve three ounces of Salt in a quart of boiling water, and pour it hot upon two ounces of scraped Horseradish; cover down the jar, and let it stand twenty-four hours; strain, and mix it by degrees with the best Durham flour of mustard, beat well together for a long time till of the proper thickness: put into a wide mouthed bottle, and stopped closely'. it will keep good lor months. See also (Nos. 369, and 370.)461 gravies and sauces. R R 3 Sovr Croiit*.— (No. 428.) Take a dozen hard white Cabbages, trim and divide them into quarters, take out all the stalks from the heart of the cabbage, cut it transversely with a knife or chaff-cutter into very small slips. Mix six pounds of salt with four ounces of juniper berries, and an ounce of carraway seed; put the cabbage into a cask, first strewing the bottom of it with some of the mixture, then a layer of cabbage; take care that the head of the cask slips down within the staves, and fits very closely to the sides; press the cover down, and lay a large stone on it. Set the cask in a shed or outhouse for three months; it will then be coming ready for use. When you use it, take off the stone and cover, scrape aside some of the top, take out what you want, and replace what you scraped off the top, and cover down your cask closely as before. Put the crout into a stewpan with a very little cold water, simmer it for half an hour, drain in a cullender; when done, put the meat you • This appears on the table in Germany, as com- inonly as potatoes in England, and takes its name from soenr, salt, and kraut, cabbage, which lias been eor- nipted into .sour crout.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 462 intend to dress into the stewpan, and cover it over with the crout; put just water enough to stew the meat, and to give gravy to serve up with it; when you dish up, put the crout and gravy first into the dish, and lay the meat on them. Obs. — Some Sour Krout is so juicy as not to require any water; the fatty materials employed by the Germans to stew with it, are generally sufficient.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. SAUCE SUPERLATIVE*. —(No. 429.) Port wine and mushroom catsup, see (No. 439). a pint of each. Vinegar, a quarter pint. Or, instead of the vinegar. Half a pint of walnut or other pickle liquor. But to make sauce most superlative, instead of the vinegar or Pickle liquor, acidulate it with Two drachms avoirdupoise of crystallized acid of lemon. Pounded anchovies, three ounces. Dried winter-savory, or lemon-thyme, two ounces. Fresh lemon-peel pared very thin, an ounce. Peeled and sliced eshallots, an ounce. Allspice and Black pepper powdered, half an ounce each. • We liope this title will not oft end tliose antiquaries and Economists, who to show their incniory, or excuse tlieir meanness, may quote against it the old adage, that “ Good appetite is the best sauce.” Allowing this to be generally true, (which is a more candid con- fession than could be expected from a Cook,) we dare say, the majority of our readers, will vote with us, that there are many good things, (Fish especially) that would be rather insipid, without a little Sauce of another kind.464 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Ginger, a quarter of an ounce. Mace powdered, and Cayenne, two drachms, or Curry powder, four drachms. Celery-seed bruised, a drachm. All aioir- (h/poist xceiglit. Put these into a wide mouth bottle, stop it close, shake it up every day for a fortnight, and strain it, (when some think it improved by the addition of a quarter pint of soy or thick browning, see (No. 32'2,) or (No. 436,) and you will have a most incomparably elegant and “ delicious DOUBLE RELISH, AND SAUCE SUPERLATIVE:” an extremely acceptable and most refreshing, and agreeable excitement to the organs of taste. This composition is one of the “ chef- d’oeuvres” of many experiments I hare made, for the purpose of enabling the good housexeh es of Great Britain to prepare their oxen sauces: it is equally agreeable withfsh, game, poultry, or ragouts, <SfC., and as a fair lady may ?nake it herself, its relish, will be not a little augmented, by the certainty that all the ingredients are sxeett and xcholesomc. Obs. — Under an infinity of circumstances, a Cook juay be in want of tlie substances necessary to make Sauce ; the above composition of proper proportions of tlic several articles from wliich tlie various gravies derive their flavour, will be465 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. found a very admirable extemporaneous sub- stitute, by mixing a large tablespoonful with a quarter pint of thick melted butter. Five minutes will finish a boat of very relishing sauce, nearly equal to drawn-gravy. Mock Anchovies. — (No. 430.) Take half a peck of fresh sprats, do not wash them, only draw them at the gills, and put them into stone jars with the following mixture. Two pounds of common salt, a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of white pepper, and the same quantity of lump sugar, pound these all well together; put a layer of this at the bottom of the jar, then a layer of sprats, and so alternately till the jar is full; tie them down close with a bladder, and keep them in a cohl dry place; they will be ready for use in six months : if you turn the jar upside down twice a week, they will be ready in half that time. Obs. — Smelts arc prepared in the same manner. Essence of Mock Anchovies. — (No. 431.) When the preceding preparation has been kept a year or more, it may be made into essence by pounding the fish in a marble mortar, and proceeding as directed in (No. 433.) iGravies and sauces. 466 Mock Essence of Anchovies. — (No. 43^2.) Boil a quart of stale ale for a quarter of an hour, let it stand till it is cold; take five Dutch pickled herrings with their liquor, (take off the heads and roes,) pound or mince them fine, put them into the beer, with a stick of horseradish scraped fine ; let it boil twenty minutes; strain it; hold a clean fryingpan over the fire that it may be quite dry, put a quarter of a pound of flour in it; keep stirring it with a wooden spoon, till it is the colour of essence of anchovies ; put the liquor to it, and stir it together till it boils; let it boil a quarter of an hour; when cold, bottle it; if not of sufficient colour, put a little bole armeniac to it. Ohs. — These three preparations (although bad enough, and inserted here merely for those Economists who have so addled their brains with Cockers Arithmetic, that in the case of “ Purse versus Palate,” it is quite a forlorn hope, that they will comprehend the “ Cook’s Oracle,") are among the best of the imita- tions of Anchovy, are frequently sold for it, and tor common palates may do very well; but to impart to Artificial Anchovies the delicious flavour of the Gorgona fish, so as to imposeGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 467 upon a well educated gourmand, we fear will still remain in the catalogue of the sauce-maker’s desiderata. QUINT-ESSENCE OF T^NCUOVY*. (No. 433.) The goodness of this preparation, depends almost entirely on having fine mellow Fish, that have been in pickle long enough (i. e. about twelve months) to dissolve easily, yet are not at all rusty. Choose those that are in the state they come over in, not such as have been put into fresh pickle, mixed with Red Paint, which some oil shops are very fond of adding, (as they think) to improve the complexion of the fish, and it has been said, that some folks have a trick of putting Anchovy licpior on pickled Sprats: you • The invention of tliis favourite Fisli Sauce is claimed l)y Mr. Tlios. Young; sec “ the Epicure,” Harding, London, 1015, page \i. He says, “ there still is a cabal between some of the makers of this sauce, which of tliem makes it best. Though they do not pretend to the invention, all of them denominate themselves the best makers. One is “ the real maker!!!’’ another “ the superior a!" another “ the improved!!!" another “ the orifTinal superior!!!" with cautions to guard against the “ spurious makers.” Huugess, No. 107, ne.xt the Savoy Steps, in the Strand, has long been famous for making this Sauce.468 GRAVIES AND SAUCES, will easily discover this by washing one of them, and tasting the flesh of it, which in the finest Anchovies, is mellow, red, and high flavoured, and the bone moist and oily. Put ten or twelve Anchovies into a marble mortar, and pound them to a pulp; put this into an iron or silver saucepan with a tablespoonful of cold spring water, let them stand by the side of a slow fire, frequently stirring them together, till they are melted. Now stir in half a drachm of good Cayenne pepper, and let it remain by the side of the fire for ten minutes longer; then, while it is warm, rub it through a hair sieve*, with the back of a wooden spoon. A tablespoonful will be about equal to an Anchovy. A roll of thin cut lemon-peel infused with the Anchovy, imparts a fine fresh, delicate, aromatic flavour, which very much improves this Sauce. Ohs. — The above is the proper way, to per- fectly dissolve Anchovy f, and incorporate it with * The Economist may take tlic thick remains tliat wont pass through tlie sieve, and pound it with some flour, and make Anchovy Paste, or Powder. See (Nos. 43‘t and 133.) t Epicure Quin used to say, “ of all the Banns of IMarriage I ever heard, none gave me half such pleasure as the union of delicate ann-chovy with good john- DORV.”469 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. the water; which if completely saturated, will continue suspended. To prevent the separation of Essence of Anchovi/^ and give it the ap- pearance of being fully saturated with tlie fish, various other expedients liave been tried, such as dissolving the fish in thin water gruel, or thickening it with mucilage, flour, oatmeal, or gum ; but wlien any of these things are added, it does not keep half so well as it does without them. It must be kept very close stopped, and xchen you tap a bottle of sauce, throw away the old perforated cork, and put in a new superfine velvet taper cork; if the air gets to it, the fish takes the rust, and it is' spoiled directly. Some of the oilmen colour* their Essence of Anchovy with bole armenian. V enice- red, &c.; but all these additions deteriorate the flavour of the sauce, and the palate and stomach sufier for the gratification of the eye, which, in culinary concerns, will never be in- flulged by the sagacious gourmand, at the ex- pense of these two primum mobiles of his pursuits. If Essence of Anchovy be made for the use of Private Families, it should be with good sherry or * If you are not contented vvitli tlie natural colour, break some Lobster’s Eggs into it, and you will not only beighten the Complexion of your Sauce, but im- prove its Flavour. This is the only Rouge we can recommend.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 470 Madeira ivive, or good mushroom catsup (instead of ■water, as directed ahove,) not merely to enrich the davour of the sauce, but it will keep better, df you like the acid flavour, dissolve them in good vinegar. N. B. This is infinitely the most convenient way of using the Anchovy, as each guest may mix sauce for himself, and make it strong or weak, according to his own taste. It is also much more ceconomical, as plain melted butter serves for other purposes at table. This Receipt is the result of my own experiments, and is one among many of the certificates of the sincerity of my assertion, that “ I have taken some paiiis to increase the comforts of moderate families and moderate fortunes, and to save Expense to Housekeepers and Trouble to Servants.” Anchovy Paste, or Le Beurre d’Anchois. (No. 434.) Wash your anchovies, rub off the scales, and put away the head, bones, and fins; pound the meat in a marble mortar, till it becomes a smooth paste, then rub it through a fine sieve; pot it; cover it with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. Obs.—Tins is sometimes made into a stifi'er paste by using a little flour, sj)ice, or Cayenne. This preparation is very coiivcnicut for sauces ;471 GRAVIES AND SAl'CES. the latter makes a most savoury sandwich. It is an excellent garnish for fish, put in pats round the edge of the dish, or will make Anchovy Toast, or Devil a Biscuit, &c. in high style. Anchovy Powder. — (No. 43o.) Bone the fish, pound them in a mortar, and make them into a paste with fine Hour, roll it into thin cakes, and dry them in a Dutch oven before a slow fire ; pounded to a fine powder, and put into a well-stopped bottle, they will keep for years. It is a very savourv relish sprinkled on bread and butter for a sandwich. S()Y. — (Ng. 436.) See also (No 322.) and (No. 496.) To one tablespoonful of water add half a pound of lump sugar; set it on the fire in an iron pot till it boils to a dark brown colour, keep stirring it, and take great care, or it will burn; when it is become epute thick, add to it an ounce of salt, and gradually as much (about three wineglasses) of water, or what is infinitely lietter, strong beef glaze*, or good mushroom, or * .See (No. 187,) and (No. 25^.) beef glaze is nothing niore than stiong beef Gravy reduced to the con- ■sistcnce of a Syrup tliat will hang about the .spoon. S s 2472 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. walnut catsup, as will reduce it to the con- sistence of Soy; mix well together, and give it a boil for five minutes. Those who like a gout of acid may add a little walnut pickle. Obn.—This will hardly be told from what is commonly called “ genuine Japanese sop,” and will answer every purpose that is used for. Burnt Treacle, or sugar, the peels of walnuts, Cayenne pepper, or Capsicums, or Chillies, Vinegar, Garlick, and pickled Herrings, (especially the Dutch,) Sardinias, or Sprats, appear to be the basis of almost all the Sauces that are now sold in the oil-shops. Although indefatigable research and experiment has put us in possession of these compositions, it would not be quite fair, to enrich the Cook, at the expense of the Oilman, &c , and we hope we have said enough on these subjects, to satisfy “ the Rational Epicure.” ILssence oj" IValnuts. — (No. 437.) Take walnuts of the size for pickling, cut and pound them in a marble mortar, sprinkle a little salt over them, stir them up, and let them stand to settle Ibr twenty-four hours; press oft' the juice; to each quart add half a pound of anchovies, the like quantity of peeled andGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 473 s 3 3 sliced esliallots, and a quarter of a pint of the host wine vinegar; give them a very gentle simmer for half an hour, till the anchovies are melted; then strain the liquor upon half an ounce of bruised black pepper, the same quan- tity of flour of mustard, a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg grated, two drachms of Cayenne pepper, a dozen bay leaves, and half a pint of Port wine; let all gently simmer together, for fifteen or twenty minutes ; and then run it through a flannel bag; till it is fine. O O Walnut Catsup.—(No. 438.) Take two hundred walnuts when quite tender, put them into a gallon of salt and water for a week; drain and dry them, mash them to a pulp in a marble mortar, w'ith a pound of salt; let it rest three or four days, and press all the juice from it; to each gallon of liquor put a quarter of a |)ound of minced shallots, half an ounce of bruised cloves, same of mace and black pepper, one teaspoonful of Cayenne, and a quarter of a pound of salt; give it a boil up, and strain it through a flannel bag. By adding a glass of brandy to each quart, it will keep all the better.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 474 Or, Take six half sieves of green walnut shells, put them into a tub, mix them up well with common salt, from two to three pounds, let them stand for six days, frequently beating and mashing them ; by this time the shells become soft and pulpy, then by banking it up on one side of the tub, and at the same time by raising the tub on that side, the liquor will drain clear off to the other ; then take that liquor out; the mashing and banking up may be repeated as often as liquor is found. The quantity will be about six quarts. When done, let it be sim- mered in an iron boiler as long as any scum arises; then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of long pepper, two ounces of cloves, with a Dutch pickled herring, (a quarter of a pound of anchovy is better;) with the above ingredients, let it slowly boil for half an hour ; when bottled let an equal quantity of the spice go into each bottle; they should be kept un- corked some days, and when corked, let the bottles be filled (piite up; cork them tight, seal them over, and put into a cool and dry place lor one year before it is used. B. For the above, Apicius is indebted to n475 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. a respectable oilman, who has many years proved the receipt. ITe hare not tried either of the above catsupa, bat have them from so good a cook, that we dare sap they will answer. MUSHROOM CATSUP. —(No. 439.) If you love Good Catsup, gentle Reader, make it yourself, after the following directions, and you will have a most Delicious Relish for Made dishes, ragouts, soups, sauces or hashes. Mushroom gravy, approaches the nature and flavour of Meat gravy, more than any vegetable juice; and is the best substitute for it, in Meagre Soups, and Extempore Gravies, the chemistry of the kitchen has yet contrived to agreeably awaken the Palate and encourage Appetite. I believe, the following, is the best way of extracting and preparing the Essence of Mush- rooms, so as to procure, and preserve all their fine flavour, for a considerable length of time. Begin to look out for Mushrooms from the beginning of September. Fine full grown Flaps are to be preferred ; put a layer of these at the bottom of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them with Salt, then another layer of Mushrooms,GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 476 and some more salt on them, and so on al- ternately, salt and mushrooms ; let them remain two or three hours, by which time the salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and rendered them easy to break; mash them well with your hands, and let them remain in salt for a couple of days, stirring them up and mashing them well each day; then pour them into a stone jar, and to each quart add half an ounce of whole black pepper; stop the jar very close, and set it in a stewpan of boiling water, and keep it boiling for two hours at least. Take out the jar, and pour the juice clear from the settlings through a hair sieve (without squeezing the mushrooms) into a clean stewpan ; let it just boil up, skim it, and pour it into a clean dry jar or jug; let it stand till next day, then pour it off as gently as possible, (so as not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the jug,) through a tammis, or thick flannel bag. Bottle it in pints or half pints ; (for it is best to keep it in such quantities as are soon used ;) in each pint, put a dozen berries of black pepper, the same of allspice, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Take especial care that it is closely corked, and sealed down, or dipped in Bottle Cement, (to make this, sec last page of observations on Sauces, in the 8th chapter of the Iludiments of Cookery.)GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 477 If kept in a cool, dry place, it will be good for two years; but if it is badly corked, and kept in a damp place, it will soon spoil. Examine it from time to time, by placing a strong light behind the neck of the bottle, and if any pellicle appears about it, boil it up again with a few pepper-corns. We have ordered no more Spice, &c. than is absolutely necessary to feed the Catsup, and keep it from fermenting. Brandy is an excellent preservative to all preparations of this sort. Pickles, &c. &c. The less the natural flavour of the Mushrooms is overpowered the better. Ohs.—The above, is incomparably the best way of making Catsup, and a tablespoonful of it will impregnate half a pint of sauce with the full flavour of Mushroom, in much greater per- fection than can be obtained either from pickled, or powder of, mushrooms. What is commonly called catsup, is generally an injudicious composition of so many different tastes, that the flavour of the Mushroom is overpowered by a farrago of garlic, shallot, anchovy, mustard, horseradish, lemon-peel, beer, wine, spices, &C. Ready made Catsup is little better than a decoction of spice and salt and water, with the478 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. grosser parts of the mushrooms beaten up to a pulp. Excellent Muslu'oom Catsup may he had at Butler’s herb and seed shop, opposite Henrietta Street, Covent Garden. Quintessence of Mushrooms. (No. 440.) This most delicate and delicious relish, is made by sprinkling a little salt over either flap or button mushrooms; three hours after, mash them, and next day, strain off the liquor that will flow fioiu them : it will not keep more than a week, but is preferable to any of the Catsups, which in order to preserve them, must have some spice, &c. which to a certain degree, destroys the flavour of the Mushrooms. The artificial Mushroom Beds will supply this Quint- essence all the year round. Quintessence of Oysters. — (No. 441.) Take fine fresh Milton oysters; wash them in their own liquor, shave them, pound tliein in a marble mortar, boil them up in their own liquor, with an equal quantity of white wine; and to a quart add an ounce of salt, two drachms of479 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. pounded mace, two drachms of black pepper, one of Cayenne, and same of nutmeg, and ginger grated; let it just boil up again, skim it, and rub through a sieve, and when cold, bottle it, and cork it well, and seal it down. 0/)s.—See also Obs. to (No. 278.) N. B. It is the best way to pound the salt and spices, &c. with the oysters. Obs.— This composition very agreeably height- ens the flavour of white sauces, and white made dishes, and if you add half a wineglass of brandy to each pint, it will keep good for a considerable time longer than oysters are out of season in England. Cockle and Muscle Catsup — (No. 442.) May be made in the same way as the Oyster Catsup. Tomata Catsup. — (No. 443.) Tomatas are in fine condition during the moutlis of August and September. Gather a gallon of fine, red, and full ripe Tomatas; mash them with one pound of salt; let them rest for three days, press off the juice, and to each cpiart add a quarter of a pound of anchovies, two ounces of shallots, and an ounce of groundGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 480 black pepper; boil up together for half an hour, strain through a sieve, and put to it the fol- lowing spices; a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, a drachm of coriander seed, and half a drachm of cochineal; pound all together; let them simmer gently for twenty minutes, and strain through a bag; when cold, bottle it, adding to each bottle a wineglass of brandy. It will keep for seven years. Another Catsup of the Tomatu^ or Love- Apple. Take any quantity of Tomatas, and put them into a deep earthen pan, after having picked out their stalks. Tie a cover of bro%vn paper over the pan, and bake them very slowly in a slack oven. Rub the pulp through the back of a hair-sieve, and thus separate the seeds and skins. To every pound, by weight, of this juicy pulp, put a pint and quarter of the best malt- vinegar, half an ounce of the little pods of Bird- pepper (not the Capsicum); to be had at But- ler’s Herb-shop in Covent Garden, witli a drachm each of mace, ginger, cloves, allspice; and one ounce each of white pepper, and peeled shalot. Simmer them for half an hour, or untilGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 4S ? the garlick and shallots are very soft; then pass the more liquid parts through the sieve a second time, to keep the solid dregs out. Bottle it. N. B. This catsup is greatly improved liy the addition of an eighth of Lisbon wine, after the liquor is cold. White Catsup. — (No. 444.) To a pint of white wine vinegar, put a dozen anchovies ; set them on a trivet by the side of the fire till they are dissolved, then strain it; when cold, add a pint of sherry wine, tlie peel of a large lemon pared very thin, a dozen bay leaves, an ounce of scraped horseradish, two drachms of grated nutmeg, one of bruised cloves, the same of white pepper and ginger, and a dozen eshallots peeled and sliced ; stop your jar very close; keep it in a warm situation for ten days, shaking it up every day, and then . decant it for use. Cucumber Catsup. — (No. 445.) Peel and slice large Cucumbers, add one fourth part of Onions sliced, sprinkle them with salt, and let them stand for a couple of days, occasionally stirring them up; strain them ihrough a hair sieve, and put to each quart T TGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 482 of liquor a handful of scraped horseradish, the peel of a Lemon, half an ounce of black pepper, two drachms of mace bruised; boil together for a quarter of an hour in a close covered vessel, and strain it; when cold, bottle it, and put to each pint a large tablespoonful of good brandy, to preserve it from fermentation, de- composition, &c. This is a very good relish with Salad. Obs. —Either of the five preceding combina- tions will be found a very agreeable Zest to most white dishes. Pudding Catsup. — (No. 446.) Half a pint of brandy, a pint of sherrjq An ounce of mace. And half an ounce of cloves. Steep them for fourteen days, and then strain it, and add a quarter pint of capillaire. This will keep for years, and mixed with melted butter, is a most delicious relish to puddings, and sweet dishes. See Pudding Sauce (No. 268.)GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 483 T T 2 Polutoe Mnci/age. — (No. 448.) Peel, and wash a pound of full grown Po- tatoes, grate them on a bread grater into a deep dish containing half a gallon of clear water; strain this through a hair sieve, and pour half a gallon more water through the sieve; save the water, and leave it ten minutes to settle; then pour oft' the water, and fill up the dish again with fresh water, let it settle, and repeat this every ten minutes; as long as the water is stained reddish, you must change the water, and stir it up again*: you will at last find a fine white powder at the bottom of the vessel; lay this on a sheet of paper in a hair sieve to dry, either in the sun, or before the fire, and it is ready for use. If this is well made, a tablespoonful of it mixed with two tablespoonsful of cold water, will be sufficient to thicken a cjuart of gravy, into which it must be stirred just before you take it up, and will go as far as two tablespoonsful of flour and butter. Ohs. — This preparation requires a little • Tlie criterion, whereby any one making Potatoc farina may judge of its being completed, is the purity of the water that comes from it after stirring it op.484 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. patience and perseverance, and this is all the secret in making it; it is worth knowing, for it gives a richness and fine fulness on the palate to Gravies and Sauces at hardly any expense, which by the usual mode of producing an equal degree of consistency, would cost much more, and not be any better. As it is perfectly taste- tess, it will not alter the flavour of the most delicate broth, &c. N. B. This preparation very much resembles what is called “ Indian Arrow-Root.” Mrs. Raffald's Brozo/iiiig. — (No. 449-) Beat to powder four ounces of fine lump sugar; put it into a clean iron frying-pan with one ounce of butter; set it over a clear fire, and mix it very well together; when it begins to be frothy the sugar is dissolving; then hold it higher over the fire, and have ready a pint of red wine; when the sugar and butter are of a deep brown, pour in a little of the wine, stir it thorougldy together, and gradually add the rest of the wine, and keep stirring it all the time; put in half an ounce of allspice, six cloves, four shallots peeled, and two or three blades of mace, three tablespoonsful of mushroom catsup, a little salt, and the rind of a lemon peeled as485 gravies and sauces. thill as possible; boil up slowly lor ten minutes; pour it into a basin; when cold, take olF the scum very clean, and bottle it for use. Obs. — The above is a pleasant sauce; but the Cook must remember, it will alter the Havour, as well as colour of whatever it is added to. Mrs. Raffald's Lemon Fickle.— (No. 450.) Take a dozen lemons, grate olf the outer rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave the bottoms whole; rub on them equally a quarter of a pound of liay salt, spread them in a large pewter disli, and let them dry gradually by the fire till all the juice is dried into the peels; then put them into a stone Jar, witli half an ounce of mace, quai’ter of an ounce of cloves, beat fine, half an ounce of nutmeg cut in tliin slices, two ounces of garlick peeled, quarter of a pound of mustard-seed liruised a little, and tied in a muslin bag; pour a quart of boiling white-wine vinegar upon them, close the pitcher or jar well up, and let it stand five or six days by the fire : shake it well evei-y day, then tie it up as close as possible, and let it stand for three months. When you bottle it, put the pickle and lemon into a hair sieve, press them well, to get out the liquor; let it stand till next day; then pour T T 3486 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. off the fine and bottle it; let the rest stand three or four days and it will settle; pour off the fine again, and let it again settle till you have poured off all you can get fine. It may be put into any white sauce, and will not hurt the colour; is very good for fish sauce and made dishes, especially of veal; a teaspoonful is enough for white, and two for brown sauce for a fowl; it is a most useful pickle, and gives a pleasant flavour ; be sure you put it in before you thicken the sauce, or put any cream in, lest the sharpness make it curdle. Mrs. Raffald says, “ I have given no direc- tions for cullis, as I have found by e.xperience that lemon-pickle and browning answer both for beauty and taste, (at a trifling expense,) better than the most extravagant cullisses. Had I known the use and value of these two receipts when I first took upon me the part and duty of a housekeeper, they would have saved me a great deal of trouble in making gravy, and those I served, a great deal of expense.” See the preface to Raftald’s Cookery, London, 8vo. 1806. Obs, — We suppose IMrs. R.’s praise of these two sauces to be well deserved, as they have been copied into almost every cookery book that has been compiled since.487 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Hash* Sauce.— (No. 451.) Mushroom catsup, (No. 439,) three ounces. Eshallot wine, (No. 402,) half an ounce. Walnut pickle, one ounce. Browning, (No. 436,) or (No. 322,) one ounce. Mix. If you wish it to keep for a great length of time, add half an ounce of (No. 422) to it. Obs. — This is not only a most convenient and agreeable Relish for Hashes, but beins: com- posed of proper proportions of the ingredients usually employed to flavour and make sauce for hashes, it will save you much time and trouble, and is thus easily made. Put a piece of butter about as big as a large egg, into a stewpan, set it on the fire; and when it looks brown, put to it a tablespoonful of flour; stir it thoroughly together, and add to it six berries of black pepper, the same of allspice, and three table- spoonsful of hash sauce, (No. 451 ;) put to it almost a pint of boiling water, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, strain it through a sieve, and it is ready to receive the meat that is to be warmed in it. • See also (Nos. S60, 484, and 486.)GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 488 Piquante Vinegar, or Sauce for Salads or Cold Meats. — (No. 452.) Horseradish scraped fine, two ounces. Flour of Mustard, and Sweet basil dried and pounded, an ounce of each. Salt, and black pepper, of each half an ounce. Celery seed, a drachm. Best white-wine vinegar, a quart; poured hot over these ingredients: it will be ready for use in about a fortnight. Salad Mixture. — (No. 453.) See also (No. 372.) Take white-wine vinegar, one quart. Salt, two ounces. Boil them up together, and scum it well: then beat up the yolks of half a dozen eggs, with Three tablespoonsful of made mustard. A drachm of celery seed, and Half a pint of olive oil, or oil of sweet almonds. Mix this thoroughly together in a mortar, and put it to your vinegar in the stewpan; set it over a very slow fire, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is simmered to the con-GUAVIE5 AND SAUCES. 489 sistence of cream; then strain it, and when cold, bottle it, and cork it carefully. N. B. See Essence of Celery, (No. 409.) Curry Pozcder. — (No. 454.) Take of the best Durham flour of mustard four ounces. Put the following ingredients in a cool oven all night, the next morning pound them in a marble mortar, or dry them in a Dutch oven, see Note to (No. 457,) and rub them through a fine sieve. Coriander seed, four ounces. Turmeric, four ounces. Black pepper, three ounces. Cayenne pepper, half an ounce. Ginger, one ounce. Cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce. Lesser Cardamoms, Cloves, Mace, each half an ounce. Mix all well together, and put them into a wide mouthed bottle. Obs. — Fennel and Cummin seed are some- times added to the above; a few bay leaves are also occasionally used. 1490 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Dr. Kitchiner’s Curry Powder. (No, 455.) Dry and reduce the following spices, &c. to a fine powder, in the same way as in the fore- going receipt. Coriander seed, three ounces. Turmeric, three ounces. Black pepper, one ounce. Ginger, one ounce. Lesser Cardamoms, one ounce. Cayenne pepper, quarter of an ounce. Cinnamon, quarter of an ounce. Cummin seed, the same. Mix together, and keep them in a ivell-stopped bottle. Obs.—The first of these receipts was given me by a friend ; as I have not tried it, I cannot vouch for its being the actual ingredients of Avhat is sold as the Indian composition. This last receipt, was an attempt to imitate some of the Best Real India Curry Powder, selected for me, by a friend at the India House; the flavour approximates to the Indian Powder so exactly, the most profound Palatkians, have pronounced it a perfect copy of the original Curry stuff. See (No. 348,) for Curry Sauce.491 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Messrs. Ball, 81, New Bond Street, sell very good Curry powder. N. B. The common fault of Curry powder, is the too great proportion of Cayenne, (to the milder aromatics from which its agreeable fla- vour is derived,) preventing a sufficient quantity of the Curry powder being used. Italian Tamara.—(No.4o6.) Coriander seed, one ounce. Cinnamon, one ounce. Clove, one ounce. Fennel seed, half an ounce. Anniseed, half an ounce. Beaten into powder, used in the same way as the Curry powder. SAVOURY RAGOUT POWDER. (No. 457.) Salt, Mustard, Allspice, and Black pepper ground, and grated Lemon-peel, or of (No. 407,) pounded and sifted fine, half an ounce each. Ginger, and Nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce each. Cayenne pepper, one drachm.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 492 Pound them patiently, and pass them through a fine hair sieve; bottle them for use. The above articles will pound much easier and finer if they are dried first in a Dutch oven* before a very gentle fire, at a good distance from it; if you give them much heat, all the finest flavour of them will be presently evaporated, and they will soon get a strong rank empyreumatic taste. N. B. The above articles, infused in a quart of wine or proof spirit, make a most admirable savoury essence for soups and sauces, &c. Ohs. — The Spices in a Ragout are indispen- sable to give it a flavour, but not a predominant one; their presence should be rather supposed than perceived; they are the invisible spirit of good Cookery, and that happy mixture of them, and proportion to each other, and the other ingredients which produce an exquisitely de- licious, yet indefinable flavour, is the “ chcf- d’ceuvre” of a first-rate Cook. But this grand art of mixing and combining spices, &c., which may be termed the “ Harmony of Flavours,” no • Tlie back part of tlicse ovens is so miicli hotter tliau that which is next the fire, that to dry thini;s equally, their situation must be frequently changed, or tliosc at tlic back of the oven will be done too hiucIi, before those in the front arc done enough.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 4OT V u one hitherto has attempted to teach: this is the only practical work on Cookery, wherein the Receipts are giien accurately by weight or measure. PEA POWDER. —(No. 458.) Pound together in a marble mortar equal parts of dried Mint and Sage; rub them through a fine sieve, and send up on a small plate, with Green Pease, or Pease-Soup, and it gives a most savoury relish to Watergruel. If the eater of it has not the most lively imagination, he may manage to fancy, he is sipping good pease soup. See (No. 229,) Soon made Savoury Soup. Obs.-—A twelfth part of celery seed powdered may be added, if the fiavour of celery is ap- proved, and a sixth part of powdered allspice. Soup-herb Powder, or Vegetable lielis/i. (No. 459.) Of dried parsley, two ounces. Winter-savory, Sweet marjoram, Lemon-thyme, Lemon-peel, cut very thin and dried, and Sweet basil, an ounce of each. So7?ic add to the above, bay leaves and celery seed, a drachm each.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 494 Dry them in a warm, but not too hot Dutch oven: when quite dried, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a double hair sieve: put in a bottle closely stopped, and it Avill retain its fragrance and flavour for a twelve- month. N. B. These herbs are in full perfection in .July and August. Obs.—This composition of the fine aromatic herbs, is a most invaluable acquisition to the Cook: and we prefer it to the Ragout powder, as it impregnates sauce, soup, &c. with as much relish, and renders it equally agreeable to the palate, and refreshing to the gustatory nerves, without so much risk of ofi’ending the sto- mach, &c. SOUP-HERB AND SAVOURY POWDER, OR QUINTESSENCE OF RAGOUT. (No. 460.) Take three parts of soup-herb powder to one part of savoury powder. Obs.—These powders should be kept ready prepared ; they will save a great deal of time in cooking ragouts, stuffings, forcemeat-balls, soups, sauces, &c.; kept dry and tightly corked down, their fragrance and strength may be preserved undiminished for several years.GHAVIES AND SAUCES. 495 u u 2 TO PRESERVE SWEET AND SAVOURY HERBS. (No. 461.) For the following accurate and valnahle infor- mation, the reader is indebted to Mr. Butler, Herbalist and Seedsman, (opposite Henrietta Street,) Covent Garden Market, where the se- veral articles may be obtained of the best quality, at the fair market price. It is very important to those who are not in the constant habit of attending the markets, to know when the various seasons commence for purchasing sweet herbs, &c., so necessary to be preserved when in the highest state of per- fection; these are fullest of Havonr just before they begin to flower; the first and last crop have neither the fine flavour nor the perfume of those which are gathered in tlie height of the season; that is, when the greater part of the crop of each species is ripe at the same period: take care they are gathered on a dry day, by which means they will have a better colour when dry. Cleanse your herbs well from dirt and dust, cut off the roots, separate the bunches into smaller ones, and hang them across a line496 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. in the kitchen, where there is a moderate heat, which will dry them in an excellent manner; when perfectly dry, put them in bags, and lay them by on a shelf in the kitchen, they will keep good for twelve months, and be ready in the moment when wanted ; or rub them off the stalks and put them through a hair sieve, and put the powder into well-stopped bottles, see (No. 459); by this means their flavour is still better preserved. I would recommend parsley and fennel to be dried rather quicker than the other herbs, and rubbed clean from the stalks before they are bagged; these are not generally dried, but those who have ex- perienced the goodness of them in this state, will not willingly omit preserving them. Basil is in the best state for drying from the middle of August, and three weeks after, see (No. 397.) Knotted Marjoram, from the beginning of July, and during the same. Winter Savory, the latter end of July, and throughout August. Summer Savory, the latter end of July, and throughout August. Thyme, LeMON-Th YME,GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 497 Orange-Thyme*, during June and July. Mint, latter part of June, and during July. Sage, August and September. Tarragon, June, July, August. Chervil, May, June, July. Burnet, June, July, August. Parsley, May, June, July. Fennel, iMay, June, July. Elder Flowers, May, June, July. Orange Flowers, May, June, July. l’ICKLE.St. —(No. 462.) Commencing the list with Walnuts, I must take this opportunity of impressing the ne- cessity of being strictly particular in watching the due season ; for of all the variety of articles required in this department, to furnish the well • A very delicious licrb, tliat deserves to be better known. t We are sorry we liave no Receipts to give for pickling, all onr leisure time having hitherto been fully occupied with Culinary experiments; we hope next year to have opportunity for proceeding to ascertain the best processes, for making in the easiest and most ceepnomical manner, those Domestic comforts, “Home Hrewed Reer, Home IJaked Rread, Pickles, Preserves, and English Wines,” which will form an Appendix to this Work, and will be sold separately. u u 3GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 498 regulated store-room, nothing is so precarious,— for frequently after the first week that walnuts come in season, they become hard and shelled, particularly if the season is a very hot one, therefore let the prudent housekeeper consider it indispensably necessary they should be pur- chased as soon as they first appear at market; should they cost a trifle more, that is nothing compared to the disappointment of finding six months hence, when you go to your pickle jar expecting a fine relish for your chops, &c., to find nuts incased in a shell, which defies both teeth and steel : I therefore recommend looking for them from the twelfth of July; that being, 1 may say, the earliest possible time. Nastertiums are to be had by the middle of July. Onions, the various kinds for pickling, are to be had by the middle of July, and for a month after. Gherkins are to be had by the middle of July, and for a month after. Cucumbers are to be had by the middle of July, and for a month after. Melons for Mangoes are to be had by the middle of July, and for a month after. Capsicums, green, red, and yellow, the end of July, and following month.499 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Chillies, the end of July, and following month. See (No. 405,*) and (No. 405.**) Love Apples, or Tomatas, end of July, and throughout August. See (No. 443.) Cauliflower, for pickling, July and August. Artichokes, for pickling, July and August. Jerusale.m Artichokes, for pickling, July and .August, and for three months after. Radish Pods, for pickling, July. French Beans, for pickling, July. Mushrooms, for pickling and catsup, Sep- temher. See (No. 339.) Ri d Carrage, August. White Garbage, September and October. Samphire, August. THE MAGAZINE OF TASTE. (No. 463.) This incomparable auxiliary to the Cook, (may be arranged as a pyramidical Epergne for a standing ornament in the centre of the table, or an invaluable travelling Store Chest,) we have several times made mention of, in the course of our work. The following Sketch will enable any one to fit up an assortment of fla- vouring materials according to their own fancy and palate, and, we presume, will furnishGRAVIES AND SAUCES, 500 sufficient variety for the amusement of a thorough-bred Gourmand, (if Cayenne Pepper and Garlick have not completely consumed the sensibility of his Palate,) and consists of a mahogany “ Sauce Box,” with four eight-ounce bottles, sixteen four-ounce bottles, and eight two-ounce bottles, containing the following in- gredients. 1 Pickles. 2 Brandy. 3 Curacao (No 474.) 4 Syrup, (No. 475.) 5 Salad sauce, (Nos. 452, and 453.) 6 Pudding catsup, (No. 446.) 7 Sauce Superlative, or double relish, (No. 429.) 8 Walnut pickle. 9 Mushroom catsup, (No. 439.) 10 11 12 13 Vinegar. Oil. Mustard, see (Nos. 370 and 427.) Salt, see (No. 371.) ] 4 Curry powder,(455.) 15 Soy, (No. 436.) 16 Lemon juice, 17 Essence of ancho- vy, (No. 433.) 18 Pepper. 19 Cayenne, or (Nos. 405, or 405**.) Soup-hei'b powder, (No. 459.) Ragout powder, (No. 457.) Pea powder, (458.) ZEST, (No. 255.) 24 Essence of celery, (No. 409.) Sweet herbs, (419.) Lemon-peel, (408.) Eshallot w'ine, (No. 402.) 28 Powdered mint. 20 21 22 23 25 26 27501 GKAVIES AND SAUCES. In a drawer under. Half a dozen one ounce bottles. Weights and scales. A graduated glass measure, divided into tea and table- spoons. Corkscrew. Nutmeg-grater. Table and teaspoon. Knife and fork. A steel, and a Small mortar. 1 5 13 1 6 14 22 2 7 15 23 8 16 24 3 9 17 25 10 18 26 4 11 19 27 12 20 28 Toast and JVater. —(No. 463.*^) Take a slice of a stale loaf, about the thick- ness toast is usually cut; toast it carefully until it be completely browned all over, but not at all blackened or burnt; put this in a jug, and pour upon it as much clean boiling water us you wish to make into drink, cover the jugGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 502 with a saucer or plate, and let it stand till it is quite cold : the fresher it is made the better, and more agreeable. Obs, — A roll of thin cut Lemon-peel infused with the bread, is a very grateful addition. \ Or, To make it more expeditiously, lay a slice of bread, a quarter of an inch thick, in a cheese- toaster before the fire, till it is brown through ; put it into a mug, and just cover it with boiling water; let it stand till cold, then fill it up with cold spring water, and strain it through a fine sieve. Obs.—The above will be found a pleasant, and excellent beverage at meals. Cool Tankard, or Beer Cup. — (No. 464.) A quart of mild ale, a glass of white wine, one of brandy, one of capillaire, the juice of a lemon, a roll of the peel, nutmeg grated on the top, and a sprig of borrage* or balm. * “ Bona^e is one of the four cordial flowers;” it comforts tlie heart, cheers niclancholy, and revives the fainting spirits, says Salmon in the 45tii page of his “ Household Companion," London, 1710. CombinedGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 503 Cider Cup — (No. 465.) Is the same, only substituting the Cider for the Beer. Flip. — (No. 466.) Beat two eggs together, and mix with them half a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and as much grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling. Put a pint of ale into a saucepan; when it is hot, pour it into a basin to the eggs, &c., and back again into the saucepan, and back again three or four times, till it is ([uite smooth. ® Teicahdiddle. — (No. 467•) A pint of table beer, (or Ale, if you make it for a “ Night-Cap,”) a tablespoonful of brandy, a teaspoonful of brown sugar, or clarified syrup ; a little grated nutmeg or ginger may be added, and a roll of lemon-peel. Obs. — Before our readers make any remarks on this composition, we beg of them to taste it; with the ingredients in tlie above receipt, we liave lVc(|uenlly observed it produce all tlie cardiac and ex- hilarating effects ascribed to it by Or. S. iGRAVIES AND SAUCES. 504 if the materials are good, and their palate does not differ very much from that of its inventor, they will find it one of the most delicious beverages they ever put to their lips. To bottle Beer.— (No. 4f58.) When the briskness and liveliness of Malt liquors in the cask fail, and they become dead and vapid, which they generally do soon after they are tilted, let them be bottled; be careful to use clean and dried bottles; leave them unstopped for twelve hours, and then cork them as closely as possible with good and sound new corks; put a bit of lump sugar as big as a nutmeg into each bottle; it will be ripe, i. e. fine and sparkling, in about four or five weeks ; if the weather is cold, to put it up, the day before it is to be drank, place it in a room where there is a fire. If the beer becomes too hard or stale, a Jew grains oJ'Salt of IVonnwnod, Cor what is stilt better, the super-Carhonate of Potash, or Soda,) added to it at the time it is drank, will rcry much recover it to its original state. N.B. Good Small Beer bottled is a very refreshing and delightful Summer drinkGRAVIES AND SAUCES, 50,O Rich Raapherri/ Wine or llrandp.—(N0.4G9.) Bruise tlie finest ripe raspberries with the back of a spoon, strain them through a flannel bag into a stone jar, allowing a pounil of fine powdered loaf sugar to each quart of juice; stir well together, and cover it down ; let it stand for three days, stirring it up each day ; pour off’ the clear, and put two cpiarts of sherry or Cogniac brandy to each quart of juice ; bottle it off'; it will be fit for the glass in a fortnight. Punch. — (No. 470.) The grand secret, or rather art, of making genuine British Punch, consists in the prepara- tion of a rich and delicate Sherbet; this being accomplished, with the addition of the best Jamaica rum, or French brandy, and pure hot or cold water; the mixture may be too strong or too weak, but cannot possibly prove bad Punch. In preparing sherbet for punch, the acids of cream of tartar, tamarinds, and various other prepared vegetable acids, as well as that par- ticularly denominated citric acid, are occa- sionally employed; but, ])erhaps, after all, the )niccs of limes, lemons, and Seville oranges, \ \ r506 GRAVILS AND SAUCES. expressed from the fresh fruits, when attuinahle, make the sort of sherbet which seems most congenial with the nature of good British punch. Procure a couple of ripe, sound, and fresh lemons, or limes, and a .Seville orange; rub off the yellow rind of one of the lemons with lumps of fine loaf sugar, putting each lump into the bowl as soon as it is saturated or clogged with the essence or grated rind; then thinly pare the other lemon and Seville orange, and put these rinds also into the bowl, to which add plenty of sugar; pour a very small quantity of boiling water’^', and immediately squeeze the juice of the fruit, followed by a little more hot water. Incorporate the whole well together with a punch ladle; and putting a little of the sherbet thus composed, try its richness and flavour by the palate. If the fruit be g'ood, a practised punch maker will find little which requires to be regulated, and that little can soon be adjusted by supplying the aqueous, saccharine, or acid deficiencies, so as to pro- duce a luscious and rich bodied sherbet, fit for the reception of the spirit which is to give it '* The late Count Rimifortl recomiiicmlcd a table- spoonful of Itice to be boiled in each quart of watei, it iuiparts a soltucss almost equal to jelly.r. RAVIES AND SAUCES. 507 x X 2 animation. If straining should be found ne- cfjssarv, this is the period for using a lawn sieve, through which a little more hot water may afterwards be passed; and a few parings of the orange or lemon rind are generally con- sidered as having an agreeable appearance floatino; in the bowl. The sherbet being thus prepared, to make it into genuine British punch, spirit should be added in the proportions of a bottle of the best Jamaica rum to every pint of the finest Cogniac brandy; the entire strength or weakness may be suited to the general in- clination of the company for which it is pre- pared. The above quantity of fndt, with about three quarters of a pound of sugar, will make sufficient sherbet for three quarts of punch. Pine apple rum, and capillairo syrup instead of part of the sugar, may be used, if convenient, with considerable advantage to the flavour; though it will prove excellent punch without either of these auxiliaries, or even Seville orange. The same sort of sherbet may, of course, be used for brandy ])unch, or rum punch singly: but punch is seldom so made in England: most persons indeed mix etpial parts of rum and brandy. Arrack punch, how- ever, is always made with that spirit alone, and usually with a simple sherbet of lime or lemon508 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. juice, With sug-ar, as the flavour of the Seville orange interferes too much with the peculiar flavour of the arrack, which proves so grateful to most tastes, though to many very unpleasant. When with the richest sherbet, sometimes ren- dered still richer by fruit jellies, and even nutmeg, wine is mingled with the rum and brandy instead of water, the liquor is called punch royal. The mixture of a small quantity of ale or porter, highly recommended by some in making punch, seems only advisable when it is rum punch, made without any brandy, and must, even then, be very sparingly introduced. This article, whatever may appear its value, is fur- nished, with regard to its principles, by one of the first practical punch makers in Europe; who could easily, by dwelling on minute cir- cumstances, have supplied matter for a small volume ; the essence of which is, however, he freely confesses, here suflicicntly concentrated for every useful purpose. AVith regard to the salubrity of punch, when drank in moderation, hot in winter, or cold, and even iced in summer, it aflbrds a most grateful beverage; admirably allaying thirst, promoting the secretions, and conveying anima- tion to the spirits. If, however, amid theGUAVIES AND SAUCES. 509 liilarity excited l)y the tempting fragrance, and luscious taste, which tlic balmy howl seldom fails to inspire, it he too freely and too ha- bitually drank, its powerful comhination of sj)irit and acid, instead of proving favourable to the constitution, will infallibly tend to bring on the gout, even sooner than most wines or strong cider, unless happily prevented by using a con- siderable deal of exercise. Punch, (like all the prime blessings of life,) is excellent, and salutary, when prudently en- joved at proper seasons. We must not charge on them our own want of discretion, by which alone they are ever converted to evils. The apparently whimsical English name of punch, like the liquor itself, is of West India origin, the word in the aboriginal language signifying simply fiVe, being the number of ingredients there used: viz. 1, acid, or lime, or lemon juice ; 2, sweetness or sugar; 3, spirit, or rum, &c.; 4, water; and 5, spicy flavour, or nutmeg, &c. It is singular, too, that punch, the word I'or five, consists of just five letters. From the opposite natures of tlie several ingredients, punch has also been sometimes called the licpior of contradictions. %,* For this Tciy eliiliorafe receipt I am indebted to that excellent work, “ The Family Receipt Book,” X X 3•510 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Ato. London: printed for Oddy and Co., Oxford Street, London, which is eertainly the best collcctioih I hare seen, and deserves a place in every steward's room, as does also “ Appert’s Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances.” Fine Red Ralijia. — (No. 471.) Mash together in a tub or pan, three pounds of black Cherries, two of ripe red Gooseberries, and one of Raspberries, or Mulberries; mix with these a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, and twenty-four cherry kernels, previously pounded in a mortar, with a pint of syrup; put all into a jaiy stop it close, and keep it for ten days in a heat of about ninety degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermometer; then press it through a clean napkin, let it stand twenty-four hours, and add to each quart of juice a pint of good brandy; next day strain it througli a Hannel bag, that it may be quite clear. Obs. — The French Liqueurs are in general very badly imitated in England, from our sub- stituting bitter Almonds for Peach and Apricot kernels, and eommon Proof spirit for their fine Cogniac lu-andy. N. B. JuiiNsuN and Co. No. 2, Colonnade, Pall Mall, arc justly famous for importing511 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. brandy of the best quality, and selling it in a genuine state, and 40 varieties of Foreign liqueurs, &c. Cherry Brandy. —(No. 472.) To a pound of ripe Morelia cherries mashed well with your hands, add a quart of Brandy ; let them steep for three days, then press the liquor through a napkin; sweeten it with good lump sugar, let it stand a week in a covered vessel, and then bottle it. This is also the best way of making Raspberry Brandi/. — (No. 473.) N. B. Some of the best Cherry Bounce we ever tasted, we purchased of Rickards, dis- tiller, near St. .lames’s Church, Piccadilly. Curacao. — (No. 474.) Pour half a pint of boiling water on three ounces of fine thin cut Seville orange-peel that has been dried and pounded in a marble mortar; stop it close ; when it is cold, add to it a quart of full proof brandy ; let it steep fourteen days : decant it clear, and add to it a quarter pint of clarified syrup; to prepare which, sec the next receipt (No. 475.)51-2 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 0/w. —This is the best way of making this best of Liqueurs, wliich is not merely an agreeable cordial, but an essential friend to the Stomacli. Clarijied Si/nip. — (No. 47.5.) Put a pound and three quarters (avoirdupois) of fine lump sugar into a clean stewpan, that is well tinned, with one pint of cold spring water, and set it over a moderate fire ; beat about the sixth part of the white of an egg with a table- spoonful of cold water; put it to the sugar before it gets warm, and stir it well together. Watch it, and when it boils take oft'the scum; and keep it boiling till no scum rises ; when it is perfectly clear, run it throngli a silk sieve, or a clean napkin; put it into a close stopped bottle; it will kec]) for months, and is an elegant article on the hukboard for sxvectcning. Obs. — The proportion of sugar ordered in the above syrup, is that directed in the Pharma- capeia of the London College of Physicians. Tlie quantity of sugar, must be as much as the liquor is capable of keeping dissolved when cold, or the synqi will be subject to ferment, and change into a vinous or sour liquor, es- pecially in warm weather.513 GRAVIES AND SAUCES. Cdpillaire. — (No. 476.) To a pint of clarified syrup add a wineglass of Curasao. Lemonade in a Minute. — (No. 477.) Dissolve three quarters of an ounce (avoirdu- pois) of pulverized crystallized lemon acid (with a few drops of quintessence of lemon-peel,) (No. 408,) in a pint of clarified syrup, (No. 475.) Two tablespoonsful of this in a pint of water will immediately produce a most agreeable Sherbet; the addition of rum or brandy will convert this into Punch direcLly. — (No. 478.) Potcder for Punch or Lemotinde. (No. 478.*) Powder half an ounce (apothecaries’ weight) of Crystallized Lemon, or Tartaric acid, with three ounces of loaf sugar, and a few drops of oil of lemon-peel; rub these ingredients thoroughly to- gether in a marble or Wedgewood mortar, and divide it into 12 parts; by dissolving one of which in half a pint of cold water, you will immediately obtain a very agreeable Lemonade.GUAVIES AND SAUCES. ol4 Slirab. — (No. 479.) A quart of bi'andy, the filtered juice of two Seville oranges, and the peel pared very thin and steeped for three days, a quarter pound of lump sugar then added to it, and then strained through flannel, produces this very palatable but seductive liquor, incomparably more tempt- ing and insinuating than any of the simple spirits, because, in combination with swat in- gredients, it imperceptibly stimulates, and gra- dually impairs the digestive organs. Obs.—The addition of a quart of Sherry or Madeira makes this “ Punch Royal if, instead of wine, the above quantity of water be added, it will make “ Punch I'OR Ciiambek- MAiDs,” according to Salmon’s Cookery, 8vo. London, 1710 ; see page 405. Mock Arrack. — (No. 480.) Dissolve two scruples of flowers of Benjamin in a quart of good Rum, and it will give it the flavour ol the linest Arrack.CtUAVIES and sauces. 51.'5 Spirituous Syrup of Tea. — (No, 481.) Ponr a quarter pint of boiling water on three ounces, avoirdupoise weight, of fine young livson; let it stand an hour, and add to it a pint of brandy, or proof spirit; let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day; strain it, and sweeten it with strong clarified syrup. Obs. — A teaspoonful or two of this in a tumbler of water, is a very refreshing beverage in summer. Sodaic Vozeders. — (No. 481 .*) Take five drachms of Acid of tartar, pound it fine, and divide it into twelve parts, folding each in u'hite paper. Take six drachms of super-carbonate of Soda, pound it fine, and fold it in blue paper. Fill two half-pint tumbler glasses half full of water, stir into one a powder from the ’white paper, in the other one from the blue; when the powders are quite dissolved, pour one to the other, and perfect soda water will be in- stantaneously produced in its utmost perfec- tion.GRAVIES AND SAUCES. 516 To clean Plate. First. Take care that your plate is quite free from grease. Second. Take some whitening mixed with water, and a sponge, rub it well on the plate, which will take all the tarnish off; if it is very bad, repeat the whitening and water several times, making use of a brush, not too hard, to clean the intricate parts. Third. Take some rouge powder, mix it with water to about the thickness of cream, and with a small piece of leather, (which should be kept for that purpose only) apply the rouge, which, with the addition of a little “ Elbow Grease,” will in a short time produce a most beautiful polish. P. S. The Rouge Powder may be had at all Silversmiths and Jewellers. Obs.—The above is the actual manner in which silversmiths clean their plate, and was given to us by a respectable tradesman.THE COOK’S ORACLE. MADi: DISHES. To Hush Mutton. — (No. 484.) Cut the meat you intend to hash into large handsome slices, (trim otf, and throw aside all the sinews, skin and gristle, and put in, nothing hut what is tit to be eaten,) and lay them on a plate, ready ; prepare your Sauce as receipt (No. 360,) or (No. 451,) or (No. 486,) put in the meat, and let it simmer gently till it is thoroughly warm; hut do not let it boil, as that -will make the meat tough and hard*. * Hashes and meats dressed a second time, sliould onhi simmer gently, till just warm through; it is sup- posed they liave been done very nearly, if not quite Y Y518 MADE DISHES. Ohs. — Select for y(mr Hash, those parts of the joint that are least done. To rearm up Hashes*, — (No. 485.) Made Dishes, Stews, Ragouts, Soups, &c. When you liave any left, put it into a deep hash dish, or tureen ; when you want it, set this in a stewpan of boiling water ; let it stand till the contents are quite warm; it will eat as well as when first made. enough, already; though you will, of course, select those parts of the joint that have been least done. In mulcing a kasli from it Leg of Mutton, do not destroy the marrow-bone to help the gravy of your hash, to which it will make no perceptible addition ; but saw it in two, twist writing paper round the ends, and send it up on a plate as a side dish, garnished with sprigs of parsley : if it is a roast leg, preserve the end bone, and send it up between the marrow bones. This is a very pretty luncheon or supper dish. • The Rain Marie, or WATEn-BATii, see note to (No. is the best utensil to warm up all made dishes, and things that have been already sufficiently dressed, as it neither consumes the sauce, or hardens the meat; if you have not a Water Bath, a Dutch Oven will soiuctinies supply tlie place of it.MADE DISHES. 519 To Hash Beef, a la Moost-Aye, or the Gipsies way. — (No. 4&G.) Put a pint of broth, or a pint of water, with a large tablespoonful of mushroom catsup into a stewpan with the gravy you have saved that was left from the beef; slice a large onion very fine, and boil it till it is quite done, which will take about ten minutes ; put two tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, just wet it with a little water, mix it well together, and then stir it into the broth and give it one boil up; now put in the beef, and let it simmer very gently for twenty minutes. N. B. A teaspoonful of parsley chopped as fine as possible, and put in five minutes before it is served up, is a great addition. See also (Nos. 360, 484, 485, and 506.) Cold Meat Broiled, zcith Poached Eggs. (No. 4S7.) Cut some slices of meat of even and equal thickness, and broil and brown them carefully; give those slices most fire that are least done; when done, lay them in a disli before the fire to keep hot, while you poach your eggs. See (No. 546.) This makes an excellent luncheon or supper. Y y 2MADE DISHES. 520 Mushroom catsup and melted butter for sauce, with a few drops of shallot wine or vinegar in it. See (No. 402,) or (No. 439.) Irish Slew*.—(No. 488.) I'rim your chops the same as for Harrico, put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will just cover them; when it has boiled, and you have skimmed it, for six or eight chops put in one ounce of onion chopped very fine, with a tea spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of ground black pepper; let it stew very gently for an hour and a quarter; and then peel six potatoes, and when they are quite done, it is ready to serve up. N. B. Beef steaks may be done the same way, but require more doing. Obs.—Two sliced onions may be added to each pound of meat; fiour and butter, and flavour to the palate. * III all slews and made dishes, take care the meat does not to rass, by doing too fast.521 made dishes. Y Y 3 llan ico Mutton or Lanih. -^{No. 4Sy.) Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into chops, one rib to eacli; (the French Cooks cut two chops to one bone, but it is more conve- nient to help wlien there is only one,) trim olF pai't of the fat, and the lower end of the chine bone, and scrape it clean; flatten them with a cleaver, and lay them in a large stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a large onion ; set it over a smart fire, (if your fire is not sharp, the chops will be done before they are coloured: the intention of frying them is) merely to ghe them a hruwiii/ig. Take them out and lay them in a clean stewpan, just big enough to hold them without laying them one on another. Put a tablcspoonful of oatmeal and one of flour, (or two of flour and no oatmeal) to the gravy the chops were fried in, with a pint and a half of boiling water: when it has boiled up for two minutes, pour it into the stewpan to the chops, with a large onion, a carrot, and a couple of turnips, all cut into pieces, with half a tcaspoouful of salt, and a quarter of a tcaspoonful of ground black pcpi)cr; cover them close down, and let them simmer very gently on a slow fire till the chops arer,22 MADE DISHES. tender*; this may take an hour and a half or two hours ; be very careful they arc not stewed too much, so take one of the chops up with your fish slice and try it: when done, take them out and lay them round a dish big enough to hold them without laying them over each other, and leave a space in the middle to receive the carrots, turnips, &c. Have ready boiled two dozen round young onions, about as big as nutmegs, five ounces of carrots cut into slices, or shaped into balls as you please, and twelve ounces of turnips divided into pieces about as big as a nutmeg; (to these some Cooks add two or three heads of Celery, cut the size of a shilling, or Stewed Cucumber, (No. 135); have them drained dry, put them into a clean stew- pan, and strain to them (by passing it through a tammis or hair sieve) the gravy the cutlets were stewed in; when the carrots and turnips are hot, put them in the middle of your chops, and serve up. Obs. — Rump steaks, Veal cutlets, and Beef tails, make excellent dishes dressed in the like manner. * If they are stewed too fast, or too mncli, they arc spoiled, and no more lit to be eaten tlian meat that lias been boiled down for gravy.523 MADE DISHES. Harrico Mutton, a la Moost-Aye, or the Gipsies’ way. — (No. 489-*) When yon have browned yonr chops, as directed in the twelve^ first lines of the foregoing- receipt, cover them with boiling water; when the skiim rises, remove it, and then put in two large turnips and carrots cut into pieces; (put in the carrots, twenty minutes before the turnips); stew gently till tender; or some stewed cucum- ber, (No. 135,) this may take about an hour and a half; then pass the gravy through a sieve into a basin, skim off the fat, and set the meat and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, while you thicken the gravy, by putting an ounce of butter into a stewpan; when it is melted, stir in as much Hour as will make it a paste ; pour the gravy to it by degi-ees, stir together, and give it a boil; strain it through a fine sieve or tammis into a stewpan, and let it simmer gently, while you dish up the meat and vegetables, to which pour in the gravy. Stewed Mutton Chops. — (No. 490.) Put them into a stewpan with water enough to cover them well, an onion cut in quarters, half a dozen corns of black pepper, and a little salt; cover the pan close, and set it over a very slo)v fire till the chops arc tender; theyMADE DISHES. :V24 will take about three quarters of an hour very ^•entle stewing: lay them in a dish, with the liquor they were stewed in. Send up turnips with them. OOs. — Ask if caper sauce will be wanted? A few drops of (No. 402) are a good substi- tute for it. Shoulder of Lamb Grilled. — (No. 491-) Boil it till almost done, then score it in checquers about an inch i^quare, rub it over with the yolk of egg, pepper and salt it, strew it with bread crumbs and dried parsley, and broil it over a clear fire till it is nicely browned; make a sauce for it of flour and water well mixed together with an ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, and the juice of half a lemon. See also Grill Sauce (No. 355.) N. B. Breast of Lamb is often done the same way. Junnh’s Fiy. — (No. 492.) Parboil it, wash, and wipe it dry, fry it plain, or dip it in an egg well beaten on a plate, and strew some fine stale bread crumbs over it; fry it in boiling fat, and ganiish witli crisp parsley, (No. 389.) For sauce (No. 355,) or (No. 356.)MADE DTSHES, r>-25 Shun of Beef Stewed. — (No. 493.) Crack the bone in two or three places, and put it into a stewpan, and just cover it witli water, a bundle of sweet herbs, a large onion with four cloves stuck in it, a head of celery, a dozen berries of black pepper, and the same of all- spice ; stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat is tender, this will take from about three hours and a half, to four and a half. Take three carrots and cut them into small st[uares ; peel and cut ready in small squares a couple of turnips, and a couple of dozen of small young onions; boil them till tender, (the turnips and onions will be enough in about fifteen minutes, the carrots will require about twice as long), and drain them dry. When the beef is (juite tender take it out carefully with a slice, and put it on a dish while you thicken your gravy; to do this, mix three tablespoonsful of Hour with a teacupful of the beef licpior; stir this thoroughly into a pint and half of the beef liquor, let it boil up for ten minutes, scum olV the fat, strain it through a sieve, put your vegetables in to warm ; season with pepper, salt, and a wineglass of Mushroom Catsup, (No. 489,) or Port wine, or broth, and pour it over the beef.MADE DISHES. 526 Send up Wow Wow sauce, (No. 328,) in a boat. N. B. Or, instead of sending up the beef with the bone, cut the meat into handsome pieces fit to help at table, lay it in the middle of the dish, with the vegetables and sauce round it. Obs.—This dish has every claim to the at- tention of the Rational Epicure, being one of those in which “ Frugality,'’ “ Nourishment,” and “ Palateableness,” are most happily combined. We advise the Mistress of the table, to call i “ Ragout Beef,” and it will be eaten with unanimous applause; while the homely appel- lation of Shin of Beef stewed, is enough to give your genteel eater, a locked jaw. Our Modern Epicures (and wou’d-be-thought Palaticians) resemble the Ancient, w'ho thought the dearest dish, must be the most delicious. Thus, they reckon Turtle and Punch to be “ shexenti/foire per shent” more inviting to tlieir tasteless palates, than Mock Turtle and Good Malt Liquor, how'cvcr bad tlie former may be, and however good the latter: we wish these folks could be made to understand, that the Soup for each, and all the accompaniments are precisely the same; there is this only dill’ercnce, tliat tlie former is commonly madeMACE DISHES. 527 witli a “ STARVED TURTLE;' the latter with a “ FATTED CALF.” See (Nos. 247, 343, and 343.*) The scarcity of tolerable good cooks, ceases to be surprising, when we reflect how much more astonishing is the ignorance of most of those who assume the character of Scientific GOURMAXDS, SO extremely ignorant of “ the Affairs of the Month,” they seem hardly to “ know a Sheep's head from a Carrot,” and their real pretensions to be profound Palaticians, are as moderate, as the wine merchant’s customer, whose sagacity in the selection of liquors, was only so exquisite, that he knew that Port wine was black, and that if he drank enough of it, it would make him drunk. Brisket of Beef Stewed. — (No. 494.) This is prepared in exactly the same way as “ soup and bouilli.” See (No. 5,) and (No. 238.) Ilarricot of Beef. — (No. 495.) A stewed brisket cut in slices, and sent up with the same sauce of roots, &c., as we havE directed for harricot of mutton, (No. 489,) is a most excellent dish, of very moderate expense.MADE DISHES. 528 Savoury Salt Beef. — (No. 496.) The tongue side of a round of beef that weighs fifteen pounds should hand two or three days; then take three ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of coarse sugar, half an ounce of cloves, or half an ounce of black pepper, and same of allspice, and pound of common salt; incorporate these ingredients by pounding them together in a marble mortar; then take the bone out, and rub the meat well with the above mixture, turning it and rubbing it every day for a fortnight. When you dress it, bind it up tight with tape to preserve its form, and put it into a pan with a quart of water; cover the meat with plenty of fine chopped suet, and an onion or two minced small; cover the whole with a flour crust to the top or brim of the pan, and let it be baked in a moderate oven for about six hours. If the beef weighs more, put a pro- portionate addition of all the ingredients. The Gravy you will find a strong Consommv, excellent for sauce or soup, or making Soy or Browning, see (No. 436,) and being impregnated with salt, will keep several days. Cut the meat with a sharp knife to prevent waste, and keep it even and comely to the eye. Tliis is a most c.xcellent529 MADE DISHES. standing dish, and for sandwiches; eaten with good vinegar and mustard it is equal to the best brawn, and one of the most economical and elegant articles of ready dressed keeping pro- visions, deserving the particular attention of those 1‘amilies wlio frequently have accidental customers dropping into luncheon or supper. Ragout of Beef. — (No. 497-) Beef for ragooing must be without bone; the rump is excellent: a piece of the thick Hank is frecpiently used for this purpose, or any other that is all meat, and has some fat to it; it should be a thick short piece. When the beef is ready, make some gravy in the following manner; take a pound and a half of some ordinary piece of beef, and a cpiarter of a pound of bacon cut into thin slices; and cut an onion and a shallot into thin slices, pick off the leaves of a sprig of thyme and of winter-savory ; to these put a carrot split, three blades of mace, a teaspoonful of bay salt, four cloves, and a little pepper: put all these, with the sliced beef and bacon, into a quart of water, and let them boil very slowly till it comes to a pint; toward the end put in a good toast, brown and hard, but not burnt; give it a boil up, and z zAlADE DISHES. .530 strain off the gravy. Now flour the piece of beef, put it into a stewpan with some butter, and fry it brown all over; when it is well browned, pour in a quart of water; stew* it slowly till it is almost enough, then put in your pint of gravy ; thicken it if necessary, and add to it a large spoonful or two of mushroom catsup, or Port wine, or both; let it have a boil, and then serve it up. You may add a little elder or basil vinegar, (No. 397,) and for a change, send up with it Stewed Cucumbers, (No. 13.5.) or Celery, or Wow Wow Sauce (No. 328.) Rib of Beef Stexced. — (No. 498.) Provide one of the prime ribs, trim it neatly, and lay it in a stewpan of nearly its own big- ness, putting a slice or two of bacon at the bottom: lay in your beef, and cover it with water: for seasoning, put in an onion, two carrots split and cut in pieces, a little sweet basil, tliyme and parsley, a couple of blades of bruised mace, and some pepper and salt; let it stew gently till it is very tender; take it * Slow stewing require.s from twenty to tliirty minutcf the pound of meat.531 MADE DISHES. out upon a plate, clean it well from fat, &c.; strain the liquor into a clean stone pan ; thicken a quart of the gravy with Hour, and let it boil away till it is reduced to the thickness you wish; then lay your meat in a dish, and pour the gravy over and round it. Send up spinach with it, or parsnips and beet root, or mashed potatoes. Obs. — This is a very savoury, nourishing, and economical dish, and a valuable variety at a moderate table. See Wow Wow Sauce, (No. 328.) Cold Jieif garnished vdth Jelly.—(No. 499.) Take six pounds of the rump of beef; let it hang three days to make it tender ; rub it well with an ounce of saltpetre, and a ])ound of salt; let it lay four or five days, putting half a pint of water into the salting pan, that your jelly may not be too salt. Put all these into a pot as nigh its size as possible ; cover it with water, and season it with a full sized carrot, and a large onion, a sprig of sweet marjoram, three times the quantity of parsley, a rlozen corns of whole pepper, same of allspice; take care to skim it well, and let it simmer very gently till it is ([uite tender, which it ought to z z 2MADE DISHES. .j32 be in about four hours. Take the lieef out, carefully strain the broth into a larger steivpan, and take the grease oft’ it; set it on a quick fire, and let it boil away till it is reduced to a very strong jelly : beat the whites and shells of two eggs with a little cold water, and put them to the jelly: take it off the stove, let it settle for a few minutes; but while it is hot, strain it through a very fine napkin; with a paste brush rub a little of it over the meat; (this, in eulinary technieals, is termed glazing it;) put the remainder of the jelly into a flat dish about an inch deep; when it is thoroughly cold, cut it out into any shapes you please, and garnish the beef with it. Ohs. — Few things are cheaper than this, and I never saw it brought to table, where every one was not pleased with it. It is a very de- lieious dish for luncheon or supper, and will keep four or five days. Something cold of this sort is very convenient in families; and let the Cook who would make herself agreeable, always remember that it is her own interest, to study that ol her employers; let her make it her bu- siness to get out of the common tract, and learn how to make some of those things that add to the variety of the Bill of Fare, without increasing the expense. The most moderate table may.533 MADE DISHES. under proper management, afford sufficient changes; there need not he a perpetual, dull repetition of the same joints, plainly one after another, unless it be the fault of the provider or the Cook, for there are plenty of very pretty things that may be dressed as cheap as a plain joint. Steic'ed Riwip Steak. — (No. 500.) For two pounds of rump steak, (if you fear they will not eat tender, beat them well,) line the bottom of a three quart stewpan with slices of good bacon, and on this lay the steaks, just cover them with water, a dozen corns of allspice, the same of black pepper, the red part of a carrot, a little bundle of savory, sweet mar- joram, and parsley, a large onion with half a dozen cloves stuck in it, and a head of celery; cover them up closely, and let them simmer gently about an hour and a half, according to their thickness ; if they are thin steaks, an hour will be enough ; take care the meat does not go to rags bi/ doing too fast, or too much*. When the steaks are tender take them up, flour them, and fry them, only just to broicn them, in an * See Note to (No. 489.) z z 3 iMADE DISHES. 534 ounce of butter; make some thickening with an ounce of butter and two tablespoonsful of flour ; put it into your sauce; stir it well together with a wooden spoon, adding thereto, a tablespoonful of Port wine, the same of mushroom catsup, or browning, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground black pepper: dish your steaks, and strain your sauce to them. Veal cutlets or Mutton chops may be done the same way. Obs.-—Rump steaks are in best condition from Michaelmas to Lady-day. To ensure their being tender, give the butcher three or four days' notice of your wish for them. Rump Steak with Onion Gravy.—(No. 501.) See also (No. 331.) Peel and slice two large onions; put them into a quart stewpan with two tablespoonsful of water; cover the stewpan close, and set it on a slow fire till the water has boiled away, and the onions have got a little browned, then add half a pint of good broth*, and boil the onions till they are quite tender; strain the broth from * If you have no t)i otli, put in half a pint of water, tliickcn it as in tlie above receipt, and just before you535 MADE DISHES. llieni, and chop them very fine; thicken the iiroth with flour and lintter, and season it with mushroom catsup, and pepper and salt; put the onion into it, and let it boil gently for five minutes, and pour it over a Broiled Rump steak. If instead of broth, you use good beef gravy, it will be superlative. Stvxved cucumber, (No. 135,) is another agreeable accompuniment to rump steaks. A LA MODE BEEF OR ENGLISH TURTLE. (No. 50(2.) In the hundred and fifty volumes on Cookery, wc digested, before we began to compose this work, wc could not find one receipt that ap- proaclied any thing like to an accurate descrip- tion of the way in which this e.xcellent dish is actuallv dressed in the best Alamodc beef shops; from whence, of course, it was impossible to obtain any information: however, after all, the whole of the secret, seems to be the thickening the gravy (of beef that has been very slowly Rive it tlic last boil up, add to it a laiRc spoonful of niuslirooin catsup, and, if you like, tlic same cpiautily of I’ort wine.536 MADE DISHES. Stewed), and flavouring it with Bay leaves and Allspice. Take about six pounds of the clod of beef, or the sticking piece; cut it into pieces, of two or three pounds each; put two ounces of beef drippings, (fat bacon will give it a better flavour) into a large deep stewpan; as soon as it is quite hot, flour your meat, put it into the stew- pan, turn it often till it is a light brown, then cover it with boiling water; skim it when it boils, and then pnt in a large onion, and let it stew very slowly for three hours, then just crack thirty berries of allspice, and four cloves, put them in, with half a dozen bay leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt, and stew an hour longer: when you find the meat sufficiently tender*, take it up with a slice, cut it into quarter of a pound pieces, and put it into a tui'een. To thicken the gravy, mi.\ some flour or oatmeal in a teacupful of the gravy, pour it into the stewpan, and strain the soup to it. Tu the aboxe many Cooks add an ounce of Chumpignums; but as these are almost ahiays decayed, and often of deleterious quality, they are better left out. Qbs. — Here is an agreeable and nutritive * Sec Note to (No. 489.)MADE niSTIES. 537 meal, almost as cheap as the “ Pottage an Pierre a la Soldat,” mentioned by Giles Rose in the 4th page of his dedication of the “ perfect SCHOOL OF INSTRUCTION . FOR THE OFFICERS OF THE MOUTH,” 18mo. Londoii, 1682. “ Two Soldiers were minded to have a Soup, the first of them, coming into a house, and asking for all things necessary for the making of one, was as soon told, that he could have iioiic of those things there, whereupon he went away; and the other coming in with a stone in his knapsack, asked only for a Pot to boil his Stone in, that he might make a dish of broth of it for his Supper, which was quickly granted him, and when the stone had boiled a little while, he asked for a small bit of Meat or Bacon, and a few herbs and roots, ^c. just merely to give it a bit of a flavour; till by little and little, he got all things rccpiisite, and so made an ex- cellent Pottage of his Stone.” See Obs. to (No. 493,) and (No. 247.)538 MADE DISHES. To Pot Beef, Game, or Poultry, S;c. (No 503.) Take three pounds of lean gravy beef, salt it twelve hours with half a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre; cut off all the skin and fat; divide the lean into pound pieces, and put it into an earthen pan, or stone jar that will just hold it, cover it with the skin and fat that you cut off, and pour in half a pint of water; cover it close with paste, and set it in a very slow oven for four hours ; when it comes from the oven, pour the gravy from it into a basin, (throw away the skins and fat,) shred it fine, moisten it with the gravy you poured from the meat, (which is a very strong Consomme, though rather salt, it will make excellent Pease Soup, or Soy, or Browning,) see (No. 322,) and pound it patiently and thoroughly in a marble mortar with some fresh butter*, till it is as fine a paste as possible, seasoning it (by degrees as you are beating it,) with a little black pepper * The less gravy or butter, and the more heating, the heller will be your potted beef if yon wish it to keep ; if for ininiediatc eating, you may put in a larger luo- portion of gravy or butter, as the meat will pound easier, and look and taste more mellow.MADE DISHES. .539 and allspice, or cloves pounded, or grated niitiueg; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible; put a weight on it, and let it stand all night; next day when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch tliick with clarified butter; to prepare which, see receipt (No. 259.) Keep it in a dry place. Ohs.— You may mince half a pound of ham or bacon, or a few anchovies, sweet herbs, or a shallot, or some flour of mustard, and pound them with the meat, with a glass of sherry, or some forcemeat; if you wish to have it Devilish savoury, add Ragout powder, (No. 457,) Curry powder, (No. 455,) or Zest, (No. 255,) and moisten it with Mushroom Catsup, (No. 439,) or Essence of Anchovy, (No. 433.) Or, It is a very agreeable and economical way of using the remains of a large joint of either roasted or boiled beef, veal, or ham, to mince it, and moisten it with a little thick melted butter, and beat it in a mortar with the seasoning, &c., as in the former receipt. “ When the Stomach requires Animal Food, and is deprived of the assistance of mastication, this kind of potted meat may be recommended as being restorative.MADE DISHES. 540 and easy of digestion.” Hunter’s Culina, page 117. Obs. — Meat that has been builtd down for gravies, &c. (which has heretofore been con- sidered the perquisite of the Cats,) and is completely drained of all its succulence, beaten in a mortar ivith salt, butter and spice, will make as good potted beef, as meat tliat has been baked till its moisture is quite evaporated, which it must be, or it will not keep two days. ]\Icm.—Meat that has not been previously salted, will not keep so long as that which has. Beef Cakes. — (No. 504.) If you have any cold roast beef that is under- done, mince it fine, and pound it in a marble mortar, with a little fat bacon or ham, or an anchovy ; season it with a little pepper and salt; mix well, and make it into small cakes three inches long, half as wide, and half an inch thick ; fi-y these a light brown, and serve them with good gravy. N.B. Bread crumbs and hard yolks of eggs may be added to these Cakes.541 MADE DISHES. Bubble and Squeak, or fried Beef and Cabbage.—(No. 505.) For this, as for a hash, select those parts of the joint that liave been least clone; it is generally made with slices of cold boiled salted beef, sprinkled with a little pepper, and just lightly browned with a bit of butter in a frying- pan: if it is fried too much it will he hard. Boil a cabbage, scpiceze it cpiite dry, and chop it small; take the beef out of the fryingpan, and lay the cabbage in it; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it; keep the pan moving over the fire for a few minutes; lay the cabbage in the middle of a dish, and the meat round it. Hash Beef and Roast Beef Bones Broiled, (No. 506.) To hash beef, see Receipt to hash mutton, (Nos. 360, 451, 484, and 486.) The best part to hash is the fillet or inside of the sirloin, and the good housewife will always endeavour to preserve it entire for this purpose. See Obs. to (No. 19,) and Mock Hare (No. 67.*) Roast beef bones furnish a very relishing luncheon, or supper, prepared in the following manner, with Poached Eggs, (No. 546,) or Fried Eggs, (No. 545,) or Mashed Potatoes, (No. 106,) as accompaniments, 3 AWADE DISHES. 542 Divide the bones, leaving good pickings of meat on each; score them in squares, pour a little melted butter on them, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt; put them in a dish, set them in a Dutch oven, or broil then on the gridiron. For sauce, (No. 355,) or (356). Ox-Cheek Stezced. — (No. 507.) If convenient, prepare this the day before it is to be eaten, by cleaning it, and putting it to soak all night in salt and water; next day wipe it clean, and put it into a stewpan, just cover it with water; skim it well when it is coming to a boil, and let it gently simmer till the meat is tender; slice an ounce of onions, fry them brown in a little butter and flour, and put them into the gravy, with two whole onions with two or three cloves in each, three turnips quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, a bay leaf, a head of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper and salt; let it stew till perfectly tender, take out the cheek, divide it into handsome pieces, fit to help at table; skim and strain the gravy; melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir into it two tablespoonsful of flour, and mix with it by degrees, a jiint and half of the gravy, and add to it a tablcspoonful of basil or elderMADE DISHES. 543 vinegar, the like quantity of mushroom or walnut catsup, or Port wine, ami the same of browning, and give it a boil. Serve up in a soup or ragout dish. Obs. —This is a very economical, nourishing, and savoury meal. See Ox-Cheek Soup (No. 329.) Ox-Tails Stezced. — (No. 508.) Having cut them into joints, wash them, parboil them; set them on to stew in just water enough to cover them, and dress them in the same manner as we have directed in (No. 531,) Stewed Giblets, for which they are an excellent substitute. N. B. See Ox-Tail Soup (No. 240.) Potted Ham,—(No. 509.) Cut a pound of the lean of cold boiled ham; and then pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of the fat, or with fresh butter, (in the proportion of about two ounces to a pound,) till it is a fine paste, some season it by degrees with a little pounded mace or allspice;) put it close down in pots for that purpose, and cover It with clarified butter a quarter of an inch thick; let it stand one night in a cool place. 3 A 2MADE DISHES. 544 Send it up in the pot, or cut out in thin slices. See Obs. on (No. 503.) Marbled P eal.—(No. 510.) Boil a neat’s tongue till it is tender, trim off the fat and bones, cut the tongue into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of butter, till it is very fine; pound the like quantity of dressed veal in the same way with a little black pepper and salt; Avheu the veal is pounded very fine, lay part of it in the bottom of an earthen pan, stick the tongue in lumps upon the veal, not in any shapes, the more careless the better, as it will look better when it is cut out; then put another layer of the veal on the tongue, and press it down close; cover it with clarified butter; send it to table cut into thin slices, and garnished with sprigs of curled parsley.545 MADE DISHES. 3 A 3 Hashed Veal. — (No. 511.) Put a pint of Broth into a Stewpan with an onion chopped as fine as possible, let it boil ten minutes ; then mix an ounce of fresh butter with two tablespoonsful of flour, stir it in the broth, and boil gently till it is quite smooth: have ready the veal, cut into neat slices, and put it in ; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and a roll of lemon-peel ; let it simmer ten minutes, and serve it up, lining the dish with bread sippets. Hashed or Minced Veal. — (No. 511.*) To HASH*, cut the meat into slices; to pre- pare MINCED VEAL, mince it as fine as possible, (do not chop it,) put it into a stewpan with a few spoonsful of veal or mutton broth, (or make some with the bones and trimmings, as ordered for veal cutlets, see (No. 90), a little lemon-peel minced fine, a spoonful of milk or cream: thicken with butter and flour, and season it with salt, a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, or catsup, &c., or a pinch of Curry powder. * See Receipt to Hash Mutton (No. 360,) and (No. 484.)MADE DISHES. 546 %* If yo''’' cream, beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs with a little water: line the dish and garnish with sippets o f lightly toasted bread. Obs. — Minced veal makes a very pretty dish, put into scollop shells and bread crumbed over, and sprinkled with a little butter, and browned in a cheese toaster. To make an excellent Ragout of cold f^eal. (No. 512.) Either a neck, loin, or fillet of Veal will fur- nish an excellent Ragout, with very little expense or trouble. Cut your veal into handsome cutlets; put a piece of butter or clean dripping into a frying- pan ; as soon as it is hot, flour and fry your veal of a light brown; take it out, and if you have no gravy ready, make some, as directed in the note to (No. 517,) or put a pint of boiling water into the fryingpan, give it a boil up for a minute, and strain it into a basin while you make some thickening in the following manner; put about an ounce of butter into a stewpan, as soon as it looks a little brown, mix with it as much flour as will dry it up; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, and gradually add to it the gravy yon made in the fryingpan; let them547 HADE DISHES. simmer together for ten minutes (till thoroughly incorporated); season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace, and a wineglass of mushroom catsup, or wine; strain it through a tammis to the meat; and stew very gently till the meat is thoroughly warmed. Veal Cutlets, see (No. 90,) &c. Veal Siceethread Fricassee, white.—(No. 513.) Parboil it for ten minutes in a little more water than will just cover it; then cut it into slices about three quarters of an inch thick, and add to the liquor an ounce of butter, and two teaspoonsful of flour; keep this over the fire, shaking it well till these ingredients are well mixed; put in the sweetbread again, let it stew very gently till it is done enough, and the sauce is properly thickened, then beat up a couple of yolks of eggs with a glass of white wine; add this to your sauce, stir it together, but do not let it boil. Garnish with slices of lemon. N. B. See (No. 88,) and (No. 89.)MADE DISHES. 548 If you prefer a Fricassee, brown, (No. 514.) Fry the sweetbreads brown in a little butter, then put them on to stew, and finish them as above, leaving out the eggs; if you wish it to be more savoury, add an onion, or eshallot, with a tablespoonful of browning, and one of catsup, cavice, or lemon pickle, or some Curry powder. For three other receipts to dress sweetbreads, see (No. 88,) &c. Breast of Veal Stewed. —(No. 515.) A breast of veal stewed till quite tender, and smothered with onion sauce, is an excellent dish, or in the gravy ordered in the Note to (No. 517.) Stewed Veal and Bacon. — (No. 516.) Have a piece of fillet of veal of four or five pounds; put it into a stewpan with a pound and a half of bacon, a quart of water, two carrots, a faggot of sweet herbs, with a dozen spring onions, some sprigs of parsley, and three or four cloves; when it boils, skim it, and putMADE DISHES. 549 it oil a very slow fire to simmer gently for about three hours; take out the bundle of herbs when you dish it. N. B. You may thicken the broth with rice. A. 1’ym’s Breast of Veal Ragout. (No. 517.) Take off the under bone, and cut the breast in half, lengthways; divide it into pieces, four inches long by two inches wide, so that they may be in handsome pieces, not too large to help at once: put about two ounces of butter into a fryingpan, flour the veal, or fry it till it is a light brown*; or half roast it, (by keeping the meat whole, you will better preserve the • Some Cooks make the gravy, &c. in the following manner: slice a large onion, fry it brown, drain all fat from it, and put it into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet licrbs, a couple of dozen berries of allspice, same of black pepper, three blades of mace, and a pint and a half of water; cover down close, and boil gently for half an hour; then strain it tlirough a sieve over the veal, and let it simmer gently for about three hours: about half an hour before it is done, mix two table- spoonsful of flour in a teacupful of cold water, mix some of the gravy with if, and then pour it into the stewpan. N.H. Three pints of full grown green pease are sometimes added, when the Veal is put in.550 MADE DISHES. succulence of the meat,) then put it into a stewpan with veal broth, if you have it, or else as much boiling water as will cover it, a bundle of sweet marjoram, common or lemon-thyme, and parsley, with four cloves, or a couple of blades of pounded mace, three young onions, or one old one, a roll of lemon-peel, a dozen corns of allspice bruised, and a teaspoonful of salt; cover it close, and let it all simmer very gently till the veal is tender, i. e. for about two hours and a half; then take out the meat with a slice; thicken the gravy,, by putting an ounce of butter into a stewpan, with two tablespoonsful of flour; stir well together, and by degi’ees mix the gravy with it; boil ten minutes, and skim it well; then pass it through a tammy or sieve into a clean stewpan, and season it with two tablespoonsful of white wine, one of mushroom catsup, and same of lemon juice : cover the pan, and let it stew gently till there is just sufficient gravy to cover the meat when put in the dish ; now put the Veal in to get warm, and it is ready for a ragout dish. Obs. — Forcemeat balls, see (No. 375,) &c. truffles, morells, and Curry powder, &c., arc sometimes added.551 'MADE DISHES. f^eaJ Olives. — (No. 518.) Cut half a dozen slices off a fillet of veal, half nn inch thick, and as long and square as you can; flat them with a chopper, and rub them over with an egg that has been beat on a plate; cut some fat bacon as thin as possible, the same size as the veal, lay it on the veal, and rub it with a little of the egg: make a little veal forcemeat, see receipt (No. 375,) and spread it vei7 thin over the bacon; roll up the olives tight, rub them with the egg, and then roll them in fine bread crumbs; put them on a lark spit, and roast them at a brisk fire : they will take three quarters of an hour. Mushroom sauce, brown, (Nos. 305, or 306,) or truffle sauce (No. 316,) or beef gravy, (No. 329.) Vide chapter on sauces, &c. Cold Calf's Head, Hashed.—(No. 519.) See Obs. to boiled calf’s head (No. 10.) Calf’s Head Hashed, or Ragout.—(No. 520.) see (No. 247.) Wash a Calf’s head that has been skinned, and boil it for an hour and a ({uarter, or, if it is large, give it fifteen or twenty minutes longer; with the skin on, it will require near au hour552 MADE DISHES. longer; when tender, from one half take out all the bones you can; score it superficially, and beat up an egg, and put it over the head v/ith a paste brush, and first strew over it thyme and parsley in fine powder, then bread crumbs, and put it in the Dutch oven to brown. Cut the other half head into handsome slices, and put it into a stewpan with a quart of gravy, (No. 329,) or Turtle Sauce (No. 343,) with forcemeat balls, (Nos. 376, 380,) egg-balls, a wineglass of white wine, and some catsup, &c.; put in the meat, and let it warm up together, and skim off the fat. Peel the tongue, and send it up with brains round it as a side dish, as directed in (No. 10,) or beat up the brains in a basin with a spoon- ful of flour, two eggs, lemon-peel, thyme, parsley, and a few leaves of sage; chop all fine, and mix well together with pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg; fry them in little cakes, of a very light brown; dish up your hash, with tlic half head you browned in the middle, and garnish with crisp or curled rashers of bacon, see (Nos. 526, and 527,) and the brain cakes. N. B. If you send up the Tongue and Brains as a side dish, (instead of garnishing the Ragofit with rashers of ])acon,) send up a piece of bacon in a side dish, as a companion for the tongue, &c.553 MADE DISHES. Veal Cutlets Broiled. — (No. 521.) Divide the best end of a ncek of Veal into cutlets, one rib to each; make some fine bread crumbs; mince a little parsley and a very little shallot as small as possible, and put it into a clean stewpan with two ounces of butter; fry it for a minute, then put it on a plate to cool: when cold, mix the yolks of two eggs with it, and season it with pepper and salt; dip the cutlets into this mixture, and then into the bread; lay them on a gridiron over a clear slow fire; they will take about a (piarter of an hour; send up with them a few slices of bacon fried, or done in the Dutch oven. See (Nos. 526 and 527,) and half a pint of (No. 343,) or (No. 356.) Knuckle of Veal, to Ixagoiit. — (No. 522.) Cut a knuckle of Veal into slices about half an inch thick; pepper, salt, and flour them; fry them a light brown; put the trimmings into a stewpan, with the bone broke in several places; an onion sliced, a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three blades of bruised mace; pour in warm water enough to cover them about an inch ; cover your pot close, and let it stew very gently for a couple of hours; 3 J5MADE DISHES. 5fA thicken it with flour and butter; put in a spoon- ful of catsup, a glass of wine, and juice of half a lemon; give it a boil np, and strain into a clean stewpan; put in the meat and make it hot, and serve up. Obs. — If celery is not to be had, use a carrot instead, or flavour it with celery seed, or (No. 409.) I\7iuckle of Veal Stezoed zoith Rice. (No. 523.) As boiled knuckle of veal cold is not a very favourite relish with the generality, cut off some steaks from it, which you may dress as in the foregoing receipt, or (No. 521,) and leave the knuckle no larger than will be eaten the day it is dressed. Break the shank bone, wash it clean, and put it in a large stewpan witli two quarts of water, one onion, two blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of salt; set it on a quick fire ; when it boils, take oft' all the scum: wash and pick a pound of rice, and put it into the stewpan with the meat, and let it stew very gently for about two hours; put the meat, etc. in a deep dish, and the rice round it. Send up bacon with it, parsnips, or greens, and finely minced parsley and butter.MADE DISHES. 555 3 B 2 Mr. Gay’s Receipt to Stew a Knuckle of Fea/, —(No. 524.) Take a knuckle of veal j You may buy it, or steal; In a few pieces cut it, In a stevvingpan put it; Salt, pepper, and mace. Must season this knuckle ; Then, what’s joined to a place* With other herbs muckle ; i That which kill’d King Willt And what never stands stilly ; Some sprigs of that bed§ Where children arc bred. Which much you will mend, if Both spinage and endive, And lettuce and beet, With marygold meet. Put no water at all, For it maketh things small, Which, lest it should happen, A close cover clap on : Put this pot of Wood’s metal || In a boiling hot kettle ■, • Vulgo, salary. t Supposed sorrel. + This is, by Ur. Bentley, thought to be time, or thyme. ^ Parsley. Vide Chamberlayne. II Of this composition, see the works of the copper farthing dean.55C) MADE DISHES. And there let it be, (Mark the doctrine I teach,) About, let me see, Thrice as long as yon preach*. So skimming the fat off. Say grace with your hat off, O ! then with what rapture Will it fill Dean and Chapter! S/ices of Ham or Bacon. —(No. 526.) Slices of ham, or bacon, may be broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, or toasted, with a fork ; take care they are the same thickness in every part; if you wish it curled, cut it thin, curl it, and put it on a wire skewer in a cheese- toaster, or Dutch oven, for eight or ten minutes, turning it as it gets crisp. Obs. — Slices of Ham or Bacon ivill eat much more mellow if soaked in hot water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth. Relis/iing Rashers of Bacon. — (No. 5(27.) It you have any cold bacon in the larder, you may make a very nice dish of it by cutting it into slices about a quarter of an inch thick; grate some crust of bread, and powder them well with it on both sides; lay the rashers in ' Which wr suppose lo be near four hours.557 MADE DISHES. a cheese-toaster : they will be browned on one side in about three minutes; then turn them and do the other. Obs.—These are a delicious accompaniment to poached or fried eggs; the bacon, from having been boiled * first, eats extremely tender and mellow. They are a very excellent garnish round veal cutlets, or calf’s-head hash, or green pease, or beans. Hashed Venison,—(No. 528.) If you have enough of its own gravy left, it is preferable to any, to warm it up in; if not, take a pint of mutton gravy, (No. 347,) or the bones and trimmings of the joint, (after you have cut off all the handsome slices you can, to make the hash;) put these into a pint and a half of water, and stew them gently for an hour: then put an ounce of butter into another stewpan, when melted, put to it as much flour as will dry up the butter, and stir it well together; add to it, by degrees, the gravy you have been making of the trimmings, and some red currant jelly, give it a boil up, skim it, and strain it through a sieve, and it is ready to To boil bacon, see (No. 13.) 3 B 3MADE DISHES. 5f>8 receive the venison; put it in and let it just get warm : if you let it boil, it will make the meat hard. Hashed Hare. — (No. 529.) Divide the Hare into joints, set them by ready, and put the trimmings and gravy you have left, and half a pint of water, and a table- spoonful of currant jelly, let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a sieve into another stewpan; now flour the hare, and put it into the gravy, and let it simmer very gently till the Hare is warm, (about twenty minutes) cut the stuffing into slices, and put it into the hash to get warm, about five minutes before you serve it. Jugged Hare. — (No. 529.*) Wash it very nicely, cut it up into such pieces as you would help at table, and put it into a stone jar*, sufficiently large, to well hold it; line the bottom of the jar with a couple of ounces of bacon: put in some sweet herbs, * Meat dressed by the lieat of boiling water, vvitlioiit being immediately exposed to it, is a mode of cookery that deserves to be more generally employed : it becomes deliciously tender, without being overdone, and theMADE DISH'ES. 559 a roll or two of rind of lemon, or Seville orange, and a fine large onion with five cloves stock in it, a quarter pint of red wine, and the juice of a .Seville orange or large lemon: tie the jar down closely with a bladder, so that no steam can escape; put a little hay in the bottom of a saucepan, in which place the jar, and pour in water till it reaches within four inches of the top of the jar; let the water boil for four or five hours, according to the age and size of the hare, keeping it boiling all the time, and fill np the pot as it boils away. When quite tender, strain ofi’ the gravy, (of which there will be found a good quantity, although no water was put in the jar,) clear it from fat, thicken it with flour and butter, and give it a boil up; lay your hare in a soup-dish, and pour the gravy to it. Obs.—You may make a pudding, the same as for roast hare, see (No. 379,) and boil it in a cloth; and when you dish up your hare, cut your pudding in slices, or make forcemeat balls of it, and lay them round it for garnish. whole of the nomishinent and gravy is preserved. This, in chemical technicals, is called Balneum ftlaris, a Wa'it.r Bath; in cnlinaiy, Bain Mauhs; which A. CuAPi’ELi.ii, in his “ Modern Cook," 8vo. page 25, London, 1714, translates, “ Mary’s Bath.” See note to (No. '105.)r>60 MADE DISHES. Hashed Ducks or Geese. — (No. 5SO.) Cut an onion into small dice; put it into a stewpan with a little bit of butter; fry it, but do not let it get any colour; put as much boiling ■water into the stewpan as will make sauce for the hash; thicken it with a little flour and liutter; cut up the duck, and put it into the sauce to w'arm; do not let it boil; season it with pepper and salt, and catsup. Or, a hi “ Moost Aye.” Divide the duck into joints, lay it by ready on a plate; put the seasoning into a stewpan with a pint of broth, let it boil half an hour, and then rub it through a sieve; put half an ounce of butter into a stewpan, as it melts mix a tablespoonful of flour with it, stir it over the fire a few minutes, then mix the grav'y with it by degrees ; as soon as it boils, take oft’ the scum, and strain through a sieve into a stewpan; put in the duck, and let it stew very gently for twenty minutes : serve up w'ith it, sippets of bread eitlier fried or toasted.MADE DISHES. 561 Stezeed Giblets. — (No. 531.) Clean two sets of giblets, as in the receipt for giblet soup, (No. 244;) put them into a saucepan (leaving out the Livers,) and just cover them with cold water ; set them on the tire ; when they boil, take oft' the scum, and season them with an onion, three cloves, two blades of mace, four berries of black pepper, the same of allspice, and half a teaspoonful of salt: cover the stewpan close, and let it simmer very gently till the giblets are quite tender; this will take from an hour and a half to two and a half, according to the age of the giblets, the pinions will be done first, and must then be taken out, and put in again to warm when the gizzards are done : watch them that they do not get too much done: take them out, and thicken the sauce with flour and butter: let it boil half an hour, or till there is just enough to eat with them; and then strain it through a tammis into a clean stewpan : cut the giblets into mouthfuls, put them into the sauce, with the juice of half a lemon, and a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup; pour the whole into a soup dish, with sippets of bread at the bottom. Obs. — Ox-Tails, prepared in the same way, are excellent eating.MADE DISHES. .5fi2 Hashed Woodcock. — (No. 532.) Cut off the breasts, legs, and wings of ready roasted birds; lay them on the dish you intend sending to table; cover it with another dish, and set it over a saucepan of hot water; pound the bones and inside in a mortar, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of Port wine, and a little broth, thickened with a tablespoonful of flour, same of mushroom catsup, and a bit of shallot chopped fine; season it with Cayenne pepper, and salt; when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, and there only remains liquor enough for sauce, strain it through a hair sieve over the birds in the dish : garnish with fried sippets (No. 319.) Hashed Turkei/, Fozel, or Chicken. (No. .533.) Cut them uj) as for a frieasscc, and lay them at the bottom of a stewpan ; into another stew- pan put slices of bacon, the trimmings and bones of the poultry, a piece of butter as big as an egg, a tablespoonful of flour, a minced onion or eshallot, a bundle of sweet herbs, a roll of lemon-peel, a blade of bruised mace, and half a dozen pepper corns: cover it close, and let it stew for ten minutes; then add half a pint ofMADE DISHES. r,63 warm water, a tablespoont'ul of browning, one of lemon pickle, or catsup, and two teaspoonsful of lemon-juice; give it a boil up for two minutes, and run it through a fine hair sieve into the stewpan containing the meat of the fowl, &c.; let it simmer till it is warm, and serve it up. Do not let the sauce boil after you have put it to the fowl. Pulled Turkey, Fowl, or Chicken. (No. 534.) Skin a cold chicken, fowl, or turkey; take oft the fillets from the breasts, and put them into a stewpan with the rest of the white meat and wings, side-bones, and merry-thought, with half a pint of water, two tablespoonsful of table-beer, and one of Port wine; a large blade of mace pounded, a shallot minced fine, the juice of half a lemon, and peel of a quarter, some salt, and a few grains of Cayenne; thicken it with flour and butter, and let it simmer for two or three minutes, till the meat is warm. In the meantime, score the legs and rump, powder them with pepper and salt, broil them nicely brown, and lay them on or round your pulled chicken. Obs.—Three tablespoonsful of good cream will be a great improvement to it..564 MADE DISHES. To Dress Cold FolcI, Duck, Pigeon, or Rabbit. — (No. 535.) Cut them in quarters, beat up an egg or two (according to the quantity you dress,) with a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt, some parsley minced fine, and a few crumbs of bread ; mix these wmll together, and cover your fowl, &c. with this batter; have ready some dripping hot in a pan, in which fry them a light browm colour; thicken a little gravy with some flour, put a large spoonful of catsup to it, lay the fry in a dish, and pour the sauce round it. You may garnish with slices of lemon. Fricassee of Chickens zoith Mushrooms. (No. 530.) Singe and clean two young chickens, cut ofl' their legs close to the thigh-bone, cut oft the thighs and wings, divide the breast into two pieces, and put them into a two-quart stewpan with a pint of boiling water; let them boil gently half an hour with a few of the ivorst looking mushrooms you have, two or three sprigs of parsley, two young onions, and two blades of mace. While the chickens are boiling, clean half a pint of the smallest and whitestMADE DISHES. 56.0 mushrooms you can get with a flannel, and some lemon juice and water. When the chickens are done, take them out and put them into cold water; thicken the liquor they were stewed in with some, flour and butter, boil it ten minutes, and strain it through a tammis into a clean stewpan; put in the mushrooms, trim your chickens neatly, and put them into the sauce, with some good cream ; make it hot, and add two yolks of eggs mixed with a little cream, and season it with a little salt. Do not let it boil after the eggs are put in. Obs.—Pigeons, or rabbits, tripe, and sweet- breads, are dressed in the same way. Fricassee of Chickens in a Minute. (No. 5,‘17.) Cut a dressed chicken in pieces; put two ounces of butter into a stewpan; wlien melted, put your chicken into it with salt and pepper, a bay leaf, and mushrooms: when your chicken is firm, add two spoonsful of flour, and stir it well together; when well mixed, put in half a pint of broth or water, stir it, and at the first boil take it ofl' the fire; break four eggs, mix the yolks with two spoonsful of cream, put it to your chickens, stir it together on the fire, but 3 c566 aiade dishes. do not let it boil, as it will curdle. When you dish, take out the bay leaf. N. B. From the artist who wrote (No. 250.) Devil. — (No. 538.) The gizzard and rump, or legs, &c. of a dressed turkey, or capon, or goose, taken from the bird, and scored, and well peppered and salted, and broiled, and sent up for a relish, and being made very hot, has obtained the name of a “ Devil.” Obs.—This is sometimes surrounded ivith (No. 356,) or a sauce of tliick melted butter or gravy, flavoured with Catsup, Essence of An- chovy, Sliallot wine, Curry stuff, &c. See Grill Sauce (No. 355,) or Turtle Sauce (No. 343.) Toast and Cheese. — (No. 539-) “ Happy tlie man that has eacli fortune tried. To whom she much lias given, and much denied; With abstinence all delicates he sees, And can regale himself on toast and cheese.” King’s Art of Cookery. Cut a slice of Bread about half an inch thick, pare off the crust, and toast it reiy slightly on both sides, so as just to brown it, without making it hard, or burning it. Cut a slice of Cheese (good fat mellow Cheshire cheese, or567 MADE DISHES. double Gloster, is much better than poor, thin single Gloster,) a quarter of an inch thick, not so big as the bread by half an inch on each side; pare off the rind, cut out all the specks and rotten parts*, and lay it on the toasted bread in a cheese toaster; carefully Avatch it, that it does not burn, and stir it with a spoon, to prevent a pellicle forming on the surface. Have ready good Mustard, Pepper and Sail. If you observe the directions here given, the Cheese will eat mellow and uniformly done, and the Bread crisp and soft, and will well deserve its ancient appellation of “ rare-bit.” Obs. — One would think nothing can be easier than to prepare a Welch rabbit; and yet, not only in private families, but at taverns, it is very seldom scut to table in perfection. We have attempted to account for this in page 527. Toasted Cheese, No. 2.—^^(No. 540.) We have nothing to add to the directions given for toasting the cheese in the last receipt, except in sending it up; it Avill save much time 111 portioning it out at table, if you have half a dozen small silver or tin [lans to fit into the * Kotlcn cliccsc toasted, is tlic ne plus ultra of haut Kotlt, and only eatable by the tliorougli-bred Gourmand, in the most inverted state of liis jaded appetite. 3 c 2MADE DISHES. 568 cheese toaster, and do the cheese in these; each person may then be helped to a separate pan, and it will keep the cheese much hotter than the usual way of eating it on a cold plate. Obs. — Ceremony seldom triumphs more com- pletely over Comfort, than in the serving out of these dishes; which, to be presented to the Palate in perfection, it is imperatively indispen- sible, that they be introduced to the Mouth, as soon as they appear on the table. Buttered Toast and Cheese.—(No. 541.) Prepai-e a round of toast; butter it; grate over it good Cheshire cheese about half the thickness of the toast, and give it a brown. Potted Cheese. — (No. 542.) To a pound of fine rich mellow Clieshire cheese add two ounces, (if the cheese is dry, three ounces) of good fresh butter, pound well together in a marble mortar, and add by degrees half a drachm of beaten mace or nutmeg, and a large teaspoonful of well-made mustard, (and some add a glass of white wine); beat the in- gredients well together till they are thoroughly mixed, and press it down hard in a small jar, cover it with clarified butter, and tie it down with wetted bladder. Keep it in a cool place.MADE DISHES. 569 RnmcKjuin. — (No. 543.) A quarter of a pound of Gloster or Cheshire cheese pounded in a mortar, with half an ounce of butter, and an egg. Cut a slice of bread half an inch thick, toast and butter it a little on both sides; spread the composition on it half an inch thick, and bake it four minutes in a Dutch oven; it should rise an inch high. JSIarvow Bones.—(No. 544.) Saw the bones even, so that they will stand quite steady ; put a piece of paste into the ends ; set them upright in a saucepan, and boil till they arc done enough ; a beef marrow bone will require half an hour or more, according to the thickness of the bone. Serve toasted bread with them. Eggs fried with Bacon. — (No. 545.) Lay some slices of fine streaked bacon (not more than a quarter of an inch thick) in a clean dish, and toast them before the fire in a cheese- toaster: first ask those who are to eat the bacon, if they wish it much or little done, i.e. curled and crisp, see (No. 526,) or mellow and 3 c 3570 MADE DISHES. soft, see (No. 527); if the latter, parboil it first. Well cleansed dripping, or lard, is better than butter to fry eggs. Be sure your frying- pan is quite clean; when the fat is hot, break two or three eggs into it; do not turn them, but, while they are frying, keep pouring some of the fat over them with a spoon; when the yolk just begins to look white, which it will in about a couple of minutes, they are enough ; the white must not lose its transparency, but the yolk he seen blushing through it: take them up with a tin slice, drain the fat from them, trim them neatly, and send them up with the bacon round them. Ragout of Eggs or Bacon. —(No. 545.*) Boil half a dozen eggs for ten minutes, throw them into cold water, peel them and cut them in halves; pound the yolks in a marble mortar, with about an equal quantity of the white meat of dressed fowl, or veal, a little chopped parsley, an anchovy, an esliallot, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of mush- room catsup, a little Cayenne, some bread crumbs, and a very little beaten mace or all- spice; incorporate them well togetlier, and (illMADE niSMES. 51 \ the halves of the whites with tliis mixture; bake them in a Dutch oven for ten minutes, and serve them on relishing rashers of Bacon or Ham, see (No. 527.) For sauce, melted butter, flavoured to the fancy of the eaters, with mushroom catsup, anchovy, Curry powder (No. 455,) or Zest, (No. 255.) “ Moo ST Aye’s” receipt to Poach Eggs. (No. 546.) The Cook who wishes to display her skill in Poaching, must endeavour to procure Eggs that have been laid a couple of days, those that are quite new laid are so milky, that take all the care you can, your cooking of them will seldom procure you the praise of being a Prime Poacher; but you must have fresh Eggs, or it is equally impossible. The Beauty of a Poached Egg, is to have the yolk seen blushing through the white, which should only be just sufficiently har- dened, to form a transparent Veil for the Egg. Take a stewpnn half full of water; while the water is heating, break the Egg into a cup, and when the water boils, remove the stewpan from the stove, and gently slip the Egg into it; it must stand till the white is set; then put it over a very moderate fire, and as soon as the waterMADE DISHES, &C. 572 boils, the Egg is ready; take it up with a slice, and neatly round off the ragged edges of the white, and send them upon a toast*, with or w’ithout butter; or without a toast, gar- nished with streaked bacon, nicely fried, or slices of broiled beef or mutton, see (No. 487,) anchovies, see (Nos. 434, and 435,) or pork sausages, (No. 87,) or spiuage (No. 122.) Obs.—The bread should be a little larger than the egg, and about a quarter of an inch thick; only just give it a fine yellow colour: if you toast it brown, it will get a bitter flavour; if you do not butter it, it is usual to moisten it by pouring a little hot water on it; and some sprinkle it with a few' drops of Vinegar. To boil Eggs in the Shell. — (No. 547.) The fresher laid the better, put them into boiling water ; if you like the white just set, two minutes boiling is enough ; if you wish the yolk to be set, it will take three minutes and a half. * “ A couple ofpoacliod Eggs, with a few line dry fried collops of pure Hacon, are not bad I'or breakfast, or to hegiu a meal,” says Sir Kenelm Diuhy, M.D. in liis Closet of Cookenj, London, 1669, page 167.r)73 MADE mSIlES, &C. Ohs. — A new laid egg; will not require boiling so long as a stale one, by halt a minute. N. B. “ Eggs may be preserved for twelve months, in a sweet and palateable state for eating in the shell, by boiling them for one minute ; and when wanted for use, let them be boiled in the usual manner; the white may be a little tougher than a new laid egg, but the yolk will show no difference.” See Hunter’s Culina, page 267. Es,S.s Poached zeith Sauce or minced Ham OO (No. 548.) Poach the eggs as before directed, and take two or three slices of boiled ham, mince it fine, with a gherkin, a morsel of onion, a little parsley, and pepper and salt; stew all together a quarter of an hour; serve up your sauce about half boiling; put the eggs in a dish, squeeze over them the juice of half a Seville orange, or lemon, and pour the sauce over them. Pried Eggs and minced Bacon. — (No. 549.) Choose some very fine bacon, streaked with a good deal of lean; cut this into very thin slices, and afterwards into small square pieces ; throw them into a stewpan, and set it over a gentle fire, that they may lose some of their574 MADE DISHES, &C. fat. When as much as will freelv come is thus melted from them, lay them on a warm dish. Put into a stewpan a ladleful of melted bacon or lard; set it on a stove; put in about a dozen of the small pieces of the bacon, then stoop the stewpan and break in an egg. Manage this carefully, and the egg will presently be done ; it will be very round, and the little dice of bacon will stick to it all over, so that it will make a very pretty appearance. Take care the yolks do not harden; when the egg is thus done, lay it carefully on a warm dish, and do the others. *^* They reckon 685 ways of dressing eggs in the Fi'ench kitchen; we hope we have here given sufficient variety for English palates, in the half dozen preceding receipts. Egg Tea — (No. 550.) “The .Jesuit that came from China, A. D. 1664, told Mr. Waller, that to a pint of tea they frequently take the yolks of two new laid eggs, and beat them up with as much fine sugar as is sufficient for the tea, and stir all well together. He also informed him, that the water must remain upon the tea no longer than while you can say the ‘ Miserere’ psalm very tisurcly; you have then only the spiritual partMADE DISHES, TUDDINGS, &C. 575 of the tea, the proportion of which to the water must be about a drachm to a pint.”—Sir Kenelm Digby’s Coo/cerj/, London, 1669, p. 167. Obs.—The addition of the egg makes the tea a more nutritious and substantial meal for a traveller. Suet Pudding, JViggy’s zaiy. — (No. 551.) Suet, a quarter of a pound; dour, three tablespoonsful; eggs, two; and a little grated ginger ; milk, half a pint. Mince the suet as fine as possible, roll it with the rolling pin so as to mix it well with the dour ; beat up tlie eggs, mix them with the milk, and then mix all together; wet your cloth well in boiling water, fiour it, and tie it loose, and put into boiling water, and boil an hour and a quarter. Mrs. Glasses has it tints: “ when you haxe made your water boil, then put your pudding into your pot." Yorkshire Pudding under Roast Meat, the Gipsies' way. — (No. 552.) This pudding is an especially excellent ac- companiment to a Sir-loin of beef, or a loin of veal, or any fat and juicy joint. Six tablespoonsful of fiour, three eggs, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pint of milk; so as to make a middling slid' batter, a little stillerMADE DISHES, PUDDINGS, &C. 576 than you would for pancakes ; beat it up well, and take care it is not lumpy; put your dish under the meat, and let the drippings drop into it till it is quite hot and well greased; then pour in your batter; when the upper surface is brown and set, turn it, that both sides may be brown alike; if you wish it to cut firm, it will take two hours at a good fire. N.B. The pudding should be about an inch thick when done. Plum Pudding. —(No. 55(3.) Suet chopped fine, si.K ounces. Malaga raisins stoned, six ounces. Currants nicely washed and picked, eight ounces. Bread crumbs, three ounces. Flour, three ounces. Eggs, three. Sixth of a nutmeg. Small blade of mace; same quantity of cin- namon pounded as fine as possible. Half a tcaspoonful of salt. Half a pint of milk, or rather less. Sugar, four ounces; to which may be added Candied lemon, one ounce. Citron, half an ounce. Beat the eggs and spice well together, mix theMADE DISHES, PUDDINGS, &C. 577 milk with them by degrees, then the rest of tlie ingredients; dip a fine close linen cloth into boiling water, and put it in a hair sieve; flour it a little, and tie it up close; put it into a saucepan containing six quarts of boiling water; keep a kettle of boiling water alongside of it, to fill up your pot as it wastes ; be sure to keep it boiling six hours at least. Ohs.—Mem.'//' the water ceases to boil, your pudding will become heavy, and be spoiled; but, if properly managed, this and the following, (No. 554,) will be as fine puddings of the kind as art can produce. Puddings are best when mixed over night, as the various ingredients by that means amalgamate, and the whole becomes more rich and fuller of flavour. The stiller they are mixed the better; though the cook who consults her ease will not thank me for this remark, if with it she joins that which is indispensable, that the various ingredients be THOROUGHLY Well stirrcd together. A wine- glass of brandy, is an improvement to this excellent British Pudding; if yon wish it to be most superlative, use fine Muscatel Raisins; and instead of Brandy, Noyeau or Cherry Brandy. A tablespoonful of Treacle will give it a rich brown colour. See Pudding Sauce, (No. 269,) and Pudding Catsup, (No. 446.) 3 D578 MADE DISHES, PUDDINC S, <S:C. Jjncius's Pudding—(No. 554.) Consists of six ounces of suet chopped very fine; three ounces of flour, three of bread crumbs, and three of sugar; beat up three eggs, with as much grated nutmeg as you can lay upon sixpence, and as much salt; mix them well together, with a quarter pint of milk, stir thoroughly together; butter a pudding mould, put the pudding into it, and tie a clean cloth round it; put it into boiling water, and keep it boiling about four hours. If it stops boiling, the pudding will be heavy and good for nothing. N. B. Half a pound of Muscatel Raisins cut in half, and added to the above, will make a most admirable Plum-pudding. Pease Pudding. — (No. 555.) Put a quart of split pease into a clean cloth ; do not tie them up too close, but leave a little room for them to swell; boil them slowly till they are tender; if they are good pease, they will be boiled enough in about three hours ; now rub them up in the stewpau with a wooden spoon, adding to them an egg or two, an ounce of butter, and some })eppcr and salt; when the ingredients are well incorporated together, thenMADE DISHES, PUDDINGS, &C. 579 3 D 2 ])iiss them through a hair sieve, and tie it up again in the cloth, and boil it half an hour longer. It is as good with boiled Beef as it is with boiled Pork. Ohs.—This is a very good companion to cold Pork or cold Beef. N. B. This pudding, stirred into two quarts of the liquor, Pork or other meat has been boiled in, will make very good Extempore Pease Soup, see (No. 218,) &c. Cumberland Pudding. — (No. 556.) Beat four eggs well, mix them with a pint of milk, and four ounces of lump sugar pounded and sifted: raisins stoned, currants washed and picked, apples chopped fine, of each four ounces ; a little grated mitmeg, and a very little salt. Mix all well together: dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring it, and flour it: put your pudding in, and boil it about three hours ; send it up with pudding sauce in a boat; see receipt (No. 268.)MADE DISHES, PUDDINGS, &C. 580 Maccaroiii Pudding. — (No. 557.) Boil a quarter of a pound of maccaroni till it is tender; then stew it in milk, with a little cinnamon, and the rind of half a lemon: when it is perfectly well done, beat together the yolks of three eggs with the whites of two, and a glass of white wine, half a nutmeg, four bitter almonds, and sugar to your taste; line the edge, and half way down the side of your pudding dish, with puff paste, put in the oven; about half an hour will bake it. Pice Pudding. — (No. 558.) Wash and pick half a pound of rice very clean; boil it in a cloth till it is quite soft; then beat it in a marble mortar, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the peel of a lemon ; add to it the juice of the lemon, or a glass of white wine, three eggs, yolks and whites beat separately; spice and sugar to your taste. An hour and twenty minutes will boil it, or it is very good baked.MADE DISHES, PUDDINGS, &C. 581 Ground Rice Pudding. — (No. 55Q.) Put five tablespoonsful of ground rice into a stewpan with a pint and a half of cream or milk, four ounces of sugar, same of butter, and a tablespoonful of orange flour water; put on the fire, stir till it boils ; let it simmer ten minutes in the corner of the stove, keep stirring it all the while; then break six eggs, mix the yolks in your pudding, and beat the whites till they are in snow; mix all together, and put them in a dish, or mould, and put it in the oven; it requires three quarters of an hour to bake it: do not take it out of the oven till it is called for. Custard Pudding. — (No. 5GO.) Boil a pint of milk; put the peel of a lemon into it, with a bit of cinnamon and three ounces of sugar; when it has boiled, break six eggs, rub them through a silk sieve; when the milk is a little cooled, mix it with your eggs, and strain it three or four times through the sieve; then take a plain mould, put a piece of paper to the bottom just to cover it, that the pudding when done may not stick to the bottom, cover it with paper, and put it in a stewpan with some 3d 3582 MADE DISHES, PUDDINGS, &'C. boiling water; as soon as it boils, put it in the corner of the stove that the water only simmer; it will take about forty-five minutes; put your dish upon the top of the mould, and overset it in the dish. Orange Pudding. — (No. 56l.) Grate the peel of three oranges into a pint of milk, with three ounces of sugar and the crumb of a twopenny roll; let it just boil, strain it through a tammis cloth, add four eggs, and the juice of four oranges : bake it thirty mi- nutes. White Wine Whey — (No. 562.) Is made, by pouring equal parts of white wine and skimmed milk into a basin; and after they have stood a few minutes, adding a double quantity of boiling water. In a short time the curd will collect and subside at the bottom: the whey is now to be strained into another vessel, and sweetened with sugar; a sprig of balm, or a slice of lemon, will greatly improve its flavour. Obs.—This a salubrious beverage taken im- niediately before retiring to bed, for those who have undergone severe bodily fatigue, or ex-.MADE DISHES, &C. 583 posure to inclement weather, as it will excite a gentle perspiration, and thus obviate a cold or catarrh. Beef Tea. — (No. 563.) Beef tea is usually made by cutting a pound of lean beef into very thin slices or shreds, and boiling it with two blades of mace in a quart of water. When the scum rises, carefully remove it while it continues boiling, for about a quarter of an hour. A fine strenstheninsr Mutton Broth. (No. 564.) Two pounds of mutton or veal cut small, a quarter pound of pearl barley, two quarts of water; let it simmer slowly till it will rub through a hair sieve to the thickness of cream; while preparing, take care to skim it well, and remove the fat. Barley Water.—(No. 565.) Take a couple of ounces of pearl barley, wash it clean with cold water, and put it into half a pint of boiling water, and let it boil for five minutes; pour off this water, and add to itMADE DISHES, &C. 584 two quarts of boiling water: boil it to two pints, and strain it. The above is simple barley water; to a quart of this is frequently added Two ounces of figs, sliced. The same of raisins, stoned. Half an ounce of liquorice, sliced and bruised ; And a pint of water. Boil till it is reduced to a quart, and strain. Obs.—These drinks are intended to assuage tliirst in ardent fevers and other inflammatory disorders, where plenty of mild diluting liquor is one of the principal remedies; and if not suggested by the medical attendant, frequently demanded by honest instinct, in terms too plain to be misunderstood: as the stomach sym- pathizes with every fibre of the human frame, no part of it can be distressed, without in some degree oflPending the stomach; therefore it is of the utmost importance to soothe this grand organ, by rendering every thing we offer to it as elegant and agreeable as the nature of the case will admit of: the barley drink pre- pared according to the second receipt, will be received with pleasure by the most delicate palate.MADE DISHES, &C. 585 Toothach, and Anti-rheinnatic Embrocation. (No. 567.) Sal volatile, three parts. Laudanum, one part. Mix, and rub the part affected frequently, PERISTALTIC PERSUADERS, (No. 568.) To create Appetite and cure Indigestion. Suavi(er in mode, et fortiter in re. To humour that desire for the marvellous, which is so universal in medical matters, the makers of Aperient Pills, have too often, selected the most drastic purgatives, which operating considerably, in a dose of a few grains, excite much admiration in the patient, and great faith in their powers, in proportion, as a small dose, produces a great effect—not considering, how irritating, such ma- terials must be, and consequently, how injurious, to a stomach in a state of debility, and perhaps, deranged by yesterday’s excess. If the Body or Mind be fatigued, the Stomach invariably sympathizes; and the most robust, find that when they do any thing too much, the Stomach is affronted, and does too little, unless, 3 D 5MADE DISHES, &C. 'ise this mainspring of health, be in perfect adjust- ment, every part, of the machinery of life, will vibrate with languor. In such cases, these Pills, will be found an invaluable acquisition, especially to those Constitutions, that are naturally weak, or have been impaired by intemperance, and luxurious living. The inventor of the “ PERISTALTIC PER- SUADERS,” gave them that name, from the peculiar mildness of their operation ; one or two pills very gently increase the action of that grand organ the stomach, and the other principal viscera, helping them to do their work a little faster, and remove what is offensive into the bowels, thus exciting appetite, accelerating digestion, and almost imperceptibly augmenting the alviue ex- oneration ; if a more speedy and copious evacua- tion is desired, take three, four, or five, according to circumstances. This mild medicine may be taken at any time, by the most delicate Females, and from their agreeable flavour, are an admirable Aperient for Children, whose disorders, most frequently, arise from obstructions in the alimentary canal; and sometimes, it is not a veiN easy task, to prevail on a spoilt Child, to take Physic; therefore, the inventor of this pill, has made it taste, exactly like Gingerbread; for Infants, too young to swallow a Pill, poundMADE DISHES, &C. 587 it. aiul mix it with currant Jelly, Honey, or Treacle. In every disease, the most important point is carefully to watch, and constantly to keep up, a proper action in the Bowels, for want of due attention to this, millions (especially of Children) have prematurely died of medicable disorders. In what are commoly called Bilious Com- plaints, for which, Mercury is now too often administered; if instead of two or three times a week tormenting the Bowels with that corrosive Mineral, one or two of these Pills be taken, twice or thrice a day, they will excite a constant, gently increased, action of the Viscera, and speedily and effectually cure the disease, without injury to the Constitution. *,* These Pills are prepared from a Prescription <\f W. Kitchiner, M. D., and sold by D. G. Midglet, Chemist, near York Buildings, Strand, Stomachic Tincture. — (No. 569.) Cascarilla bark bruised, one ounce. Orange-peel dried, one ounce. Brandy, or proof spirit, one pint. Let the ingredients steep for a fortnight, and decant the clear liquor.588 MADE DISHES, &C. Dose, two or three teaspoonsful in a wine- glass of water twice a day. Obs.—-This is a most agreeable aromatic tonic to create appetite and promote digestion; and when the stomach is in a state of great debility, is much more acceptable to it than any of the simple or compound tinctures of the Peruvian bark, or other bitters. This is a Sovereign remedy to strengthen the stomach; and in most nervous and languid chronic complaints of that organ, will be taken with the greatest advantage. Paregoric Elixir. — (No. 570.) A drachm of purified opium. A drachm of flowers of benjamin. A drachm of oil of anniseed. Camphor, two scruples. Steep all in a pint of brandy, or proof spirit; let it stand ten days, occasionally shaking it up. Strain. A teaspoonful in half a pint of water gruel, taken the last thing at night, is a most effectual medicine to remove coughs and colds. It is also excellent for children who have tlm hooping cough, in doses of from five to twenty drops in a little water.MADE DISHES, &C. 589 Dr. Cullen’s Receipt to make Water Gruel. (No. 571.) The following is the most agreeable manner of making water gruel. One ounce of oatmeal is sufficient to make two quarts of water gruel. Put the oatmeal into three quarts of soft cold water, and set it over the fire. It must be constantly stirred till it boils; then let it boil till a third part of the water is boiled away; then pour it through a linen cloth into a bowl a little larger than sufficient to contain it. In this bowl leave it to cool; when it will be found separated into two parts, one of them a mealy cloud or sediment, and the other a very thin and clear liquor. The latter is to be carefully decanted, or poured off for use. To render tnis more agreeable by the addition of sugar, acids, or aromatics, or to impregnate it with medicinal substances, I leave to the judgment of the nurse or physician. See Cullen’s Mat. Med. vol. i. p. 288. edit. 2 vols. 4to. Edinburgh, 1789.MADE DISHES, &C. 5yo IVuter Gruel immediately. — (No. 572.) Ask those who are to eat it, if they like it thick or thin; if the latter, mix well together, by degrees, two tablespoonsful of oatmeal with a quart of cold water; if desired to be thick, use three or four spoonsful, and a teaspoonful of salt; set it on the fire, and let it boil gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, occasionally stirring it to prevent the oatmeal burning at the bottom of the stewpan : skim it and strain it. Obs.—The yolks of a couple of eggs stirred in, an ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of brandy, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg or ginger may be added, or a teaspoonful of Zest, (No. 2.55,) or Pea Powder, (No. 458,) or some like a Shallot IjTuised and stirred in. In the “ Way to save Wealth” London, 1697, ill the 8th page are directions how to live for twopence a day; the author’s observations on water gruel is, that it makes “ a noble and e.x- hilarating meal.” N. B. This is the only extract the Editor gleaned during a fortnights hunt after Culinary curiosities, in the Libraries of the British Mu- seum !! Imperfect as this work must be in some parts, and perhaps more so than the readerMADE DISHES, &C. 591 expected to find it, it has occupied three years to bring it to what it is, and neither trouble or money has been spared to purchase the best information that could be procured on the several subjects. Anchov}) Toast. — (No. 573.) Bone and wash the anchovies, and pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter; rub them through a sieve, and spread them on a toast, see (No. 435.) Obs. — You may add, while pounding the anchovies, a little made mustard and Curry powder, or a few grains of Cayenne, or a little mace or other spice. It may be made still more savoury, by frying the toast in clarified butter. Devilled Biscuit — (No. 574.) Is the above composition spread on a biscuit warmed before the fire in a Dutch oven, with a sufficient quantity of salt and savoury spice, or Zest, or Curry powder, or Cayenne pepper sprinkled over it. Obs. — This ne plus ultra of high spiced re- lishes, frequently makes its appearance at a tavern dinner, when the votaries of BacchusMADE DISHES, &C. 592 are determined to vie with each other in sacrificing to the Jolly God; at the celebration of such Festive Rites, the following Anacreontic Song, composed by the President of the Com- mittee of Taste, (who presented us with the MS.) may be an acceptable accompaniment. .■r.'t ■ ■ PUINTED BY J. MOVES, Crovllle Slroct, Hatton Garden, London.1Hh9-9- 1 -anacreontic song m • "f -^ff Sf- —^=f='^ 1 'mmu i f m i IF Gold could len^lJien life, IF Gold could len|(lien a ±±: i t gN y,j, “1 life, I &-wfcur7 I sweur^ ^ then should bt; •iiy m234 1 A ••A A f r^ 1 tlA 1 y L • • * ^ ^ ^ w ?-7 • •• “ r ttTT r ▼•J-r 1 I* i-n fT-'WTT. in rr» w ■ •njtJ r_iJ_LJ L_l - ^ - r ^ J.- ^ 7-7^ 1 Piano con exp rcssj_ |. __, — >1 L_i^^ 1 ■ k - ^ ■ Pi.' ■ ■ 1 M p 1-M rr 1 ^0 VTT ij 1 1 But since riches can not su\ - «■• 1 ^ '-J' 'e Alortuls from the fp* 1 rPPr J ^ . m J \ wwr •P « P 1- ■■ r r I \ ^T~ 1 1 1 \ J. _ con spt ^ 1 1 rito * iJi 1 __ m m ^ inz ^ m ^ jt r 1 - 1 ^ i* 1 1 ^ ^ 1 1 • i— oomy ^ruve,Give me 1 • 1*" I ' . T reely while I live - 1 T :r 1 1 i J I J“'"j •! ^*4 T -T-P 1 t' \ T-T———WTW 1 ^ ^ t-, ti i d ^ \ 1 w *1 *1 N. * a a 1 1 ii«! ■ 1 1 , . ^ iM ^.« 1 V m • — n irr ^en’rouswine in 0 V ■ L * A M 1 ■ J / ax a «w —» 1 :ii L.^ Ti > ^TT w-n ^ ^ 1 h’ L ^ k ^—- '^5^ 1 !>■ R - Br^aU,, 1 -f^ ^z__ 1 1 Tb -f— 1 aT7 1 -d" ' plenty ^tve, Grive me Fi •eely while I livXf i-p-^ 1 “T ■ k ^ r ■" j _ ■ 1 1- 1 1 1 ^ MW ■■ 1 1 ■ ’Mill-m 1—ir-a— • J p r H— JJZ 1^-1 ^ r ~ ^ Beauty kind and t'riends sincere, f»— -#— ■ ^ n kJ'iU 1 1"^ r ■ 1 -T~l t u J L iJ_ n Ll2-6* m m ITriends iinccrt and Beauty kind; fT~* — •— —F 1— =z&z = —*—• 'o/' r -1-^ i as j |je< roe while I live en _ twine m tM.78 1 i.y J F ^ • L W F \ 1 • 1 ^ 1 ^ 1 ■ n - J . f ^ ^ P K-t li- i '"1 n 1 ■ " r 1 A^J 7T» ' *~m 1 ft r ^ m J 1 ^ - P ' • J . ^ I Id n ' I - dT 7 U ^ l_/f. Ill T ^ . [!□ 1 • ^ I I : u \ -t \ J'^ 1 ^ "P" * J ^ \* 1 M- 1 1 • 1 1,■•■"■’ ^ r ^ m y\ "1 i \ 71} \ ^ li 1 M ^ M « ' 1 V « L « fr> ■ Liui" • ^ 1 7l ^ S * K h • ^ t d^-L K .JS t wr^. T Z^~T7 T- W V ^ _ w - ■a 1 n ^ 1 : I -r - l~r>. rn -f—T *t 1 1 J M 1 .. J F ^ 1 1—XT —T, - w T-T^ ivirn ^ \ m . m //- T'-'- r— w~~i—■—m—s iT ■ f-n I II« \~ir r — : . s -g -»• jiPi ' 7 p » t • r E ; -1 1 1 "tTr __L • • J* ca_L P ^ ^ II ^ m _ A U i 1 k-TV n AA F -|i i i t- r__L_r r II ii ■ 1 l-g •' =± 1 Ld 1 —r■