!|V« *k* " ' ' *• ..•/.‘Av: ' ■ - V 'S?.,• ' •', ' • •* :-v. ' tv -r n ’ ;/&:v • •-* V «- . -f V.-. , ’ • 1 ♦> i ' VJj5c KOIflSIOi?! •j| •, • .a * \ »w# 1 L V ^ A.\ JL^ .?.<*/ 3 Pd "nnr^xr' fe i Pn Ai/no-v P A A T/ ’ •. "• 1 Ia/IL- i ii//xL v'U'L,i\i-ri.V/ LJ 0Ul^ . ■ \ : . 1 * A- . \ r * A'., /' ■ ./-V:r.';• • 4*1 « > . >. i i v.; • - •'• v;: ■ • i": 1 i 1*jijijJii^ > 1 Xtfc ' /\* ' ’ ** Xf -* ■ • V; * 1:.]^.., ;.• - • ' J*,2? * .jp > « ■ r i i : /•***. .: ;■ •■■ . •■;, :‘Tu’\ i1 !'' HH ’.1 l 1’ .i;\'.\r*;'):'tV.^Ui\:1 •' * ;’*$r } *;«/ • ■■:V*•' * v ’• i i : . . t ; :*•r*i:■:<:r'''1’V; Kl:iv&7;" • */, *• \ i ’.l.y \ hr.A<»: 11: 1:!v• •?•! ■ • f*si'inll t H.• ;*^ ,/->;'fy ,<•» f •/{Sj* *s:ly.clid:*;v!r.* ^• -fy*-ir^r:r-5u. • • ‘ yl ; :-l•1 • yi • • ; »' •': ^ rAujirj< j» ultvl^ ~ v. *.t. r.v ^ • '.t,., v. r.:. rt; nrapF!* c^T::r:r*CT'.TjTtT:>yt'rtt~ r’*i 1/ ^ i ^ :V ‘ v; V: y • i rr;r V • ^ ' r!;!. H: ^'; • •"•'■?'i • rr^rlr^llj IrT^r li^r iHlj SurtS'r rHtr* - • . . ** i .mJj ( a tes 4 /2-~ /—7-tff U o b i-r FROM THE COLLECTION 22101454396 IOOKS ;y jl, F.LS.A PRACTICAL COOKERY BOOKMrs. CHARLES ROUNDELL’S WORKS. COWDRAY. The History of a Great English House. (Out of print.) AGNES JONES; or, She hath done what she could. A VISIT TO THE AZORES, with a chapter on Madeira.MRS. ROUNDELL’S PRACTICAL COOKERY BOOK WITH MANY FAMILY BECIPES HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED LONDON DICKERS & SON, LEICESTER SQUARE 1898 All rights reservedLONDON: PRINTED BY SPOTTISIYOODE AND CO. 54 GRAOECHURCH STREET, E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. When Dr. Johnson dined with his friend Mr. Dilly, the bookseller, late in 1778, he observed : “ I could write a better “ book on Cookery than has ever yet been written ; it should “ be a book upon philosophical principles. Pharmacy is now “ made much more simple. Cookery may be made so too. A “ prescription which is now compounded of five ingredients “ used to have fifty in it. So in Cookery, if the nature of “ the ingredients be well known, much fewer will do. Then, “as you cannot make bad meat good, I would tell you what “ is the best butcher’s meat, the best beef, the best pieces, “ how to choose young fowls, the proper seasons of different “ vegetables, and then how to roast and boil and compound.” Mr. Dilly : “ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery, which is the best, was “ written by Dr. Hill.” Dr. Johnson: “ Well, Sir, this “ shows how much better the subject might be treated by a “ philosopher. I doubt if the book be written by Dr. Hill, “ for in Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery, which I have looked into, “ saltpetre and sal prunella are spoken of as different sub- stances, whereas sal prunella is only saltpetre burnt on “ charcoal, and Hill could not be ignorant of this. How- “ever, as the greatest part of such a book is made by “ transcription, this mistake may have been carelessly “adopted. But you shall see what a book of Cookery IPREFACE IV “ shall make.” Miss Seward : “ That would be Hercules “ with the distaff indeed.” Dr. Johnson : ‘ No, Madam, “Women can spin very well, but they cannot write a good “ book on Cookery.” [Life of Johnson, Gf. B. Hill— vol. iii, p. 285.] Most of the Family Recipes given in this book have been in constant use since 1807. I have to express my gratitude to Colonel Kenney Herbert (Wyvern). who has most kindly looked over my proof-sheets ; and to Mr. Edward Arnold for permission to quote from Common Sense Cookery and from Colonel Kenney Herbert’s smaller books, Fifty Breakfasts, Fifty Luncheons, and Fifty Dinners, which ought to be in every household in which good cooking is valued. The recipes given in these small volumes, like those in his larger works, are all clear, practical, and accurate in the smallest particulars. I have also to thank Mrs. Charles William Earle very heartily for the permission to use some of the recipes given in her delightful Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden. JULIA ANNE ELIZABETH EOUNDELL. Doefold Hall, Nantwich, Cheshire : March, 1898.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE A Chapter of Advice—On Preparing for a Dinner—The Kitchen, Scullery, and Larder—Weights and Measures 1 CHAPTER IE On Soups—Clear Soups—Thickened Soups—Purges—Fish Soups— Garnishes for Clear Soups 29 CHAPTER III. On Fish—Sea Fish—River Fish—Pond Fish—Shell Fish—Rechauffes of Fish 67 CHAPTER IV. Sauces 126 CHAPTER V. Roasting — Boiling — Braising — Steaming — Jugging — Broiling and Grilling—Frying—Some Minor Matters 141 CHAPTER VI. On Meat: Beef, Mutton, Lamb, Veal, Pork-—Hashed and Minced Meat— Rissoles, etc.—Quenelles—Potted Meat—Stuffing and Forcemeat— Salted Meat—Twenty Homely Dishes of Meat—Glaze and Aspic Jelly 163 CHAPTER VII. Meat Pies and Puddings—Special Luncheon Dishes .... 232 CHAPTER VIII. On Poultry and Game—Poultry—Game—Venison and Wild Fowl— Hares and Rabbits 252 CHAPTER IX. On Vegetables—Potatoes—Vegetables, Part I—Vegetables, Part II— Vegetables, Part III—Salads—Herbs 297CONTENTS viii CHAPTER X. PACE Sandwiches—Fancy Butters 305 CHAPTER XI. Eggs—Omelettes 393 CHAPTER XII. Kice and Macaroni 410 CHAPTER XIII. Curries 419 CHAPTER XIV. Beverages 425 CHAPTER XV. Food and Drink for Invalids 430 CHAPTER XVI. French and English Cookery 446 CHAPTER XVII. On Pastry-making 452 CHAPTER XVIII. Tarts and Compotes—Pancakes and Fritters—Jellies and Creams— Cheesecakes and Custards—Puddings—Souffles—Useful Sweet Dishes—lees—Preserves 459 CHAPTER XIX. Hors d’CEuvres—Toasts and Savouries—Cheese 508 CHAPTER XX. Bread, Biscuits, and Cakes—Tea, Coffee, &c 525 CHAPTER XXI. Some Foreign Becipes 549 CHAPTER XXII. The Country House 554/ KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY 13 110 cooking is going on; nor is there any need to let the fire out and then to re-light it. A thoughtful cook will manage so that she has a good clear fire when she requires it. A good pair of bellows (a convenience almost obsolete in these days) will assist her. The fire under the hot-plate can easily be regu- lated by drawing out or pushing in the regulators which control the draught, and of course the heat of a gas-stove can be even more easily controlled. The oven requires attention in several ways. Before putting anything to cook in the oven it is well to see that no pet animal has taken refuge in its comfortable warmth. I have known a treasured monkey and a valuable cat to be accidentally suffocated in this way. The oven should be thoroughly brushed at least once every day, in order to get rid of all dust, after which it should be well wiped round with a cloth wrung out of hot water. In testing the heat of an oven opinions differ as to the best method, and ovens really differ so much that a hard and fast rule cannot be laid down. Some cooks, who know by experience the quality of their own oven, form a perfectly accurate estimate of its heat by their eye and by their hand. Few use the oven thermometer. An old-fashioned custom was to sprinkle a little dry flour on the shelf of the oven ; if the flour turned brown at once the oven was hot enough for bread. Gouffe’s method of testing the heat of an oven with paper is perhaps the best. Have ready several pieces of clean white kitchen paper, and test the oven every ten minutes. If the oven is too hot the paper will blaze up or blacken at once. If the paper turns a chocolate-brown the heat of the oven will be suitable for patties, mince pies, etc. If the paper turns cigar- brown the oven will be ready for tarts, vol-au-vents, etc. When the paper takes a dark yellow shade, like deal, the oven is fit for game pies, or large meat pies, pound cake and bread. Finally, when the paper only just turns colour and is quite a pale yellow the heat of the oven is suitable for sponge cakes, or anything which requires light baking 'without much colouring. The kitchen table should be strong, fixed in its place, and s not too wide. A strip of white oilcloth may be kept for putting £ dishes on, but it must not be fastened to the table, nor must itKITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY be used for any other purpose. It is a convenience if the table has a rail round it close under the top, on which cloths can be hung. There should be at least one other table in the kitchen, strong and firm, on four legs, but not fixed. A Windsor chair with a cushion will be a comfort to the cook. The kitchen dresser should have drawers and shelves, and hooks fixed in convenient places. Besides the dresser there should be at least one cupboard. A marble mortar is a necessity, fitted into a solid wooden stand. It is a great saving of labour if the handle of the pestle is made very long, and passed inside an iron i-ing fixed into the wall at a good height above the mortar. The ring must be large enough to allow of the pestle reaching every part of the inside of the mortar. For the small mortars used for sauces, fancy butters, etc., this is not, of course, necessary. The kitchen screen should be lined with tin, furnished with a hot closet at the top and one or two iron gratings as shelves below. It is an economy to have the screen painted and grained, as if this is done the screen is easily kept clean. A good clock with a clear face is an absolnte necessity in every kitchen. The clock should be regularly wound and kept in thorough order. Great attention must be paid to the kitchen boiler, especially in frosty weather. If the supply of water in it runs shoi’t the kitchen fire must be at once put out, or the boiler may burst with fatal results to life or limb. The chimney and all kitchen flues should be frequently, regularly, and thoroughly swept. The sweep should be engaged to come at fixed intervals, and on a day, say a Monday, when breakfast can be managed without cooking hot dishes, and when time can be allowed for cleaning the kitchen after his departure. Kitchen Requisites. — These of course vary greatly according to the requirements of different families. In these days kitchen requisites are numerous, good, and inexpensive, and it must be recollected that no good cooking can be done unless the cook has the articles really necessary for her work. Requisites can be supplemented by any additions accord- ing to taste or fancy, but certain articles must be pro- vided. I will give a list of requisites, which are generally15 KITCHEN REQUISITES in use in kitchens of ordinary size, with a few desirable additions. Of these, the “ safe-boiling stove mat ” is a very useful thing, to set under a pan on the hot plate. Nothing is more decorative in a kitchen than well-kept coppers. Bat copper pans are very expensive. They not only are expensive in the first instance, but they have to be re-tinned at least once every year to avoid the danger of verdigris poisoning. It is better to provide the pans now made of seamless steel; these are less expensive than copper in the first instance, and need no attention afterwards beyond keeping them scrupulously clean. The modern fire-proof china cooking vessels of different sizes are an immense boon in cooking. Varieties of these fire-proof pans and dishes can be seen at Messrs. Crook’s, Motcombe Street, Belgrave Square, Messrs. Wolff, 119 New Bond Street, and, in lesser variety, at many other shops and stores. Saucepans lined with white enamel do not stand hard wear, and if they are at all carelessly used the enamel cracks and gets discoloured, and the saucepan is spoiled. These saucepans should be kept for cooking vegetables and stewing fruit. Scarcely any green vegetables can be cooked in an iron or steel pan. A Dutch oven and a bain- marie with its set of saucepans are both essentials in a kitchen. The Dutch oven is invaluable for cooking fish and other small dishes in front of the fire, and in the bain-marie any stew, hash, mince, sauce, vegetable, macaroni, or similar cooked dishes can be kept hot in a surrounding bath of boiling water, or can be gently heated up when required, without the least risk. If they were set on the hot plate, even at some distance from the fire, they would certainly dry up and spoil, owing to the bottom heat, and they might even burn at the bottom of the pan. List Of Requisites.—Dripping-pan, ladle, and stand, the pan not fixed to the stand. Fixed mortar and pestle, small mortar and pestle. Dutch oven. Bain-marie, complete with five vessels, a glaze-pot, and a soup-pot. Iron three-quart kettle, and copper or tin one-pint kettle. Gridiron, and hanging gridiron (if liked). Mincing machine. Coffee mill. Frying vessel, called a fish-fryer, with drainer- for frying white- bait, rissoles, fritters, or any kind of “ wet ” or “French ” frying.KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY i6 Wire frying-basket, rather smaller than the fish-fryer. Six stewpans; sizes, four quarts, three quarts, two quarts, quart, pint, and three-quarters of a pint. (More of each size may be needed.) Four enamelled saucepans with lips. Two frying- pans, twelve-inch and ten-inch. Two saute-pans, twelve-inch and nine-inch, with covers. Twelve-inch fricandeau pan. Sixteen-inch braising pan with hollow cover. Bottle-jack with rising spit. Colander. Funnel. Wire pastry rack. Scales and weights. Set of measures. Toasting-fork with long handle. Skimmer. Meat saw. Chopper. Cutlet bat. Rolling pin. Slice, and a perforated slice. Salamander. Small glazing iron, with circular end. Marble slab, 27 inches by 22. Pastry board, 24 inches. Soup straining stand with movable sieve top, so that the straining cloth is kept firm. Jelly bag and stand. Steamers to fit saucepans, used for vegetables, meat, poultry or fish. Jugging tin. Six wire dish-covers in sizes. Flour tub and cover. Chopping board, twelve inches square. Four tin baking sheets. Yorkshire pudding tin (also often useful to catch drippings from poultry or game). Two wire sieves, and two hair sieves. Two tin strainers. Whisk with wooden handle. Set of earthenware bowls for keeping stock, gravy, and sauces, four of the bowls with lips. Bowls for clarified suet and frying fat. Basins of different sizes, all white and all marked K. A few common plates, dishes, and soup-plates, so that the cook need never use anything from the breakfast and dinner services. Common tea-cups, coffee-cups, and breakfast-cups (only two or three of each) and common glasses in sizes. Pudding basins and jugs of different sizes, made of strong white china, will be required. Fire-proof China Requisites.—Three marmites for stock, eight quarts, four quarts, and two quarts. Six casseroles in sizes, ten, eight, seven, six, five, and four inches. Two omelette pans, twelve-inch and ten-inch. Set of scallop shells. Round and oval dishes of various sizes. To these may be added little souffle cases (useful for cold entrees or cold sweet dishes such as custards or creams), little pans for eggs, with or without feet, dishes for stews with edges like criukled paper, dishes for baking apples, and many other tempting articles. Too muchFIRE-PROOF CHINA REQUISITES i7 cannot be said in praise of fire-proof china dishes ; they are abso- lutely clean, they can be used over the fire without injury, and they are quite pretty enough to send to table. By their means food is served thoroughly hot in the dish in which it is cooked. Minor Requisites.—Six cook’s knives, in sizes from five to ten inches long. Palette knife, seven inches long. Filleting knife. Boning knife. Garnishing knife. Onion knife. Two straight forks. Two dishing-up forks. Corkscrew. Apple- corer. Raisin-stoner. Cherry-stoner. Two small French whisks, all wire. Two plated spoons of each size. Twelve wooden spoons in sizes, four with square or Cowmouth ends. Two wooden tamis spoons. Strong medicine glass for measuring spoonfuls of liquid. Set of larding needles. Two trussing needles. Set of meat skewers. Set of poultry or game skewers. Cutlet tongs. Cook’s steel. Vegetable scoop, round, ditto oval. Very small round scoop for cutting pea shapes. Julienne cutter. Paste brush. Softening brush for glaze. Biscuit pricker. Oval and round cutters in boxes. Two small table- pepper mills, one for white peppercorns, and the other for black. Moulds.—In selecting moulds the simplest patterns should be chosen, and all such ridiculous devices as rabbits, ducks, fish, vegetables, bunches of grapes, and bouquets of flowers must be avoided. For a moderately-sized family many moulds are not required. There should be three plain charlotte moulds oval or round, in sizes; three plain round border moulds, one with a flat rim, one with a round, and one with a hollow rim ; two simple moulds for jellies, one plain round mould with a hollow centre, and one pewter mould for dessert ice. Besides these there should be a tastefully chosen assortment of dariole moulds, plain and fluted, bouchee moulds, quenelle moulds, cutlet moulds, and sandwich moulds. Patty-pans in sets of two different sizes will be wanted, and one or two larger patty- pans for baking a cheesecake. The cook should have a plentiful supply of kitchen rubbers and cloths, also cloths for straining soup. Two tamis-cloths will be needed. Tamis (from the French word tamis, a sieve) is a woollen muslin of open texture made specialty for its purpose. A yard and one-eighth of tamis will make one cloth. cKITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY IS The Scullery.—The Scullery must he provided with a sink, and a rack above it for putting up plates after they have been washed. There should also be two washing-up tubs, two wooden pails and a zinc pail. A wire vegetable washer, a root knife, and an onion knife will be wanted. The handles of both knives should be bored, so that they can be hung up by a string to separate nails. The Larder.—The Larder should face the north. The shelves ought to be of slate, the floor of stone, and the walls lined with white tiles. The windows should be so arranged that the Larder is thoroughly ventilated, and the windows should be covered with wire gauze, fine enough to keep out flies. There ought to be an outside Larder for raw meat and poultry, the inside Larder, which often opens into the outer one, being reserved for cooked meat and for stock. A thermometer should be hung in the inside Larder, the temperature of which should never exceed 50° in summer, or fall below 38° in winter. Keep wire dish covers over all cooked meat. It often happens that no outside Larder can be provided; in this case a good meat safe with lock and key can be hung in an underground cellar or an outhouse, or in a shady place out of doors. The refrigerator or the ice-cave must be kept in the Larder, also the earthenware bread-pan with coyer. On the care of the Kitchen, the Scullery and the Larder With their contents.—There are two old proverbs which seem specially applicable to cooks and to kitchens. These are: Cleanliness is next to Godliness. Have a place for everything, and keep everything in its place. The kitchen, scullery, and larder must be kept absolutely clean and sweet, and every article used ought to be put away as bright and clean, inside and out, as when it was new. A thoughtful cook will not dirty a single vessel unnecessarily. It should be a fixed rule in all kitchens that nothing should be put away dirty, even for the night. Vessels of all kinds are much easier to clean before the remains of cooked food has had time to harden and to adhere to them, so that trouble is saved by attending to them at once. A plentiful supply of scrubbing-brushes, house-flannel, soap, washing-soda, house-sand, and silver-sand is required.l9 CONTENTS OF THE KITCHEN Tlie range, hot-plate, and gas-stove and oven must be first attended to. Clear out all the cinders and ashes from the range with a cinder-shovel, and set them aside in a coal-scuttle. Then with a brush sweep the flue as far as you can conveniently reach. Blacklead the range—that is, brush it over with liquid black- lead—and when it is dry polish it Avith the proper brushes. Rub and clean the fender, fire-irons, and any steel about the range, with emery paper. Use Putz’s Brass Pomade for any brass, and polish it well with a leather. Pill up the boiler. Noav lay and light the kitchen fire. Lay with your hand at the bottom of the grate a few small pieces of fresh coal, but do not put them so close together as to prevent the air from passing between them. Lay a small quantity of torn news- paper or shavings on the coals, and upon that a few dry sticks or splintei’s of wood, taking care that the wood does not project beyond the bars of the grate. Now lay upon the wood some of the best of the cinders which you took out with the ashes, and put a few pieces of fresh coal on the top. Do all this befoi'e you light the fire, and be careful to lay cinders and coals Avith your hand, and not to toss them into the grate anyhoAv with a shovel. Cinders cannot be used to mend the kitchen fire during cooking, but they should be kept to bank it up when the fire has only to be kept burning slowly and is not required for actual use. Noav light the fire, drawing out the regulators a little, so that the fire may burn up gradually and steadily. Wash off with a cloth Avrung out in hot water any grease Avhich may have been spilt on the hot-plate or gas-stove. Dry them thoroughly, and then blacklead them. Do not mix blacklead with turpentine, but add a teacupful of cold water to one block of Nixey’s black lead. Brush all dust out of the oven, and wipe the inside round Avith a cloth Avrung out of hot water. Dust and rub the outside of the sci’een and the bars of the shelves. The screen should be Avashed once a week, and the tin lining polished with a little sand. Dust the dresser thoroughly every morning, and wash it once a week Avith soap and water. Wash the dripping-pan and ladle Avith hot water and20 KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY crushed soda, and then polish them with sand and wipe them quite dry. Coppers.—Copper vessels must be kept perfectly clean, and should be thoroughly attended to on a fixed day once a week. Pill the pan with cold water, put in a bit of soda as big as a walnut, and let the water boil up. This will get rid of any dirt or grease. Then thoroughly scrub the inside of the pan with silver-sand and soap. Rub the outside with the squeezed half of a lemon dipped in sand. The used halves of lemon6 should always be kept for this purpose. If you have no lemon, use a rag just moistened with vinegar and dipped in silver- sand and salt. Too much liquid destroys the efficacy of the sand. Be most careful to notice any sign of green colour on the copper. This is verdigris, and a deadly poison. Watch for signs of the coppers needing to be re-tinned. Copper moulds should be thoroughly scrubbed with hot water and soda, and the outsides polished in the same way as the larger coppers. Iron Saucepans.—Put them into hot water and soda, and wash them thoroughly inside and out. Rinse and dry them well. Treat the lids in the same way. If any food has been burnt in a saucepan fill it with hot water and soda and let it boil; then rub the bottom clean with sand. Set the saucepans bottom upwards and without their lids, on a shelf. Let them project an inch beyond the edge of the shelf ; in this way the air will get into them, and they will never be musty, even if long unused. Enamelled Saucepans.—Wash them thoroughly with hot water and soda, boiling soda in them as for iron saucepans if anything has been burnt in them. Rinse and dry them well. Omelette-pans.—These must on no account ever be washed. They must be rubbed clean with soft paper or a cloth, and then rubbed till quite dry with another cloth. If the pan is in the least damp the omelette will stick to it and be spoilt. If any particles of egg adhere to the omelette-pan rub them off whilst the pan is hot with a little salt moistened with vinegar, and rub the pan perfectly dry afterwards. Never use omelette- pans except for omelettes. Frying-pans.—These must be attended to the moment theyCONTENTS OF THE KITCHEN 2 I are done with. Never scrape them with a knife, but rub them clean with salt, and then dry them with a cloth. Use sand and hot water if the pans have become black inside. If onions have been fried put a little oatmeal in the frying-pan after you have cleaned it, and shake it about over the fire till the oatmeal scorches; this will remove any smell of onion. A separate frying-pan must be kept for fish, and should be marked by a tape, or in some way, so that it will be used only for fish. Tins.—Wash all tins well with hot water and soda, putting them into a tub, and scrubbing them. Sand will scratch the tins. It is better to clean tins with powdered whiting mixed to a smooth paste with a little water, and then to polish with dry whiting till the tins are as bright as looking-glass. It is a good plan to boil tins once a quarter in water mixed with soda. Steamers should be cleaned in the same way. Dish Covers. — Wash them with soap and water, dry them thoroughly, and then brush them over with whiting mixed with a little water. When it is quite chy rub it off with a soft cloth, polishing the cover as you rub it. Do not use any pre- paration of paraffin. Mincing Machine.—When this has been used it should always be laid to soak in soda and water, and then be most thoroughly dried. The least speck of rust will ruin a mincing machine. Sieves.—Wash them with hot water and soda, scrub them with a sieve brush, hold them up to the light to see that no particle of food adheres to them, and dry them most thoroughly. After drying the sieves keep them in a dry place. If sieves are allowed to get in the least damp, hair sieves will mildew, copper-wire sieves will be coated with verdigris, and iron-wire sieves will be rusty. There is so much danger in using copper- wire sieves that it is better to avoid them altogether. In using sieves whatever is to be passed through must always be put in at the shallow end, and the sieve must not be roughly used. If this is not attended to hair sieves will soon buls-e, and then burst away from the framework. Wooden Articles.—Scrub kitchen tables and all boards the same way as the grain of the wood, and not round and round. Use hot water and sand for pastry-boards and rolling-pins, forKITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY 22 soap will turn the wood yellow. Rinse them with hot water, dry with a cloth, and if possible set both rolling-pins and pastry-boards in the open air, so as to keep them fresh and sweet. With a pastry-board it is essential to scrub it following the grain of the wood. Paste-brushes.—Wash these first in cold water, and then in warm water. If they are not quite clean and quite dry before they are put away they will spoil whatever they may touch afterwards. Tamis-Gloths, Soup Straining Cloths, Pudding-Cloths, and Jelly-Bags.—All these should be scalded out as soon as used, then rinsed in hot water, and hung up to dry. No soap or soda must be used. All cloths must be thoroughly dry before they are put away, or they will give a musty flavour when they are next used. Just before using cloths the}- should aeain be scalded out, and a quart of boiling water should be run through the jelly-bag. The Scullery.—The sink should be most carefully attended to. Always wipe into one corner all the little bits of fat, gristle, or vegetable which may adhere to the sink, and put them into the pig-tub. If you force them down the sink holes there will be a bad smell and the drain will soon be stopped up. Scrub the sink thoroughly with hot water, soda, and a hard brush. Before washing the dishes after meals sort any pieces of broken meat into separate plates so that they may be used again. Collect any scraps left .on the plates and put them into the pig-tub. Then at once put the plates into a tub half filled with hot water and set in the sink. In this way the remains of mustard or gravy will be prevented from drying and hardening on the plates., When you are ready to wash the plates add boiling water till the water in the tub is quite hot, and with a dish-cloth wash each plate well, one at a time, washing both sides. Do not have too many plates in the tub at once, or they will knock against each other and break. Have a tub of cold water in the sink, partly under the tap, and turn on the tap a little so as to keep the tub full. The reason for this is that any grease from the plates and dishes may swim over into23 CONTENTS OF THE SCULLERY the sink as you rinse them. If this is not done the plates will be greasy after the first two or three are rinsed. Rinse each dish and plate in the cold water as soon as yon have washed them, dry them on both sides with a clean dish-cloth, and set them in the rack above the sink. A fresh supply of hot water will be wanted in the washing-up tab from time to time. Scald pails and tubs, and scrub them with hot water and soda till they are thoroughly clean and sweet. Set them in the open air when it is possible and let them remain there for a few hours. In putting- cabbage water (that is, the water in which cabbages of any kind have been boiled) down the sink, always put it down quite hot, straight from the pan, and pour plenty of cold water after it. In this way all smell will be prevented, whereas if the cabbage water is allowed to cool before it is put down the sink no amount of water thrown after it will prevent the disagreeable smell from spreading over the whole house. The Larder.—-All shelves must be kept thoroug-hly clean and free from dust. The bread-pan and cover must he wiped out every day and scalded once a week, or the bread will become musty and mouldy. Explicit directions are given in other chapters as to the care of the meat, poultry, or game in the larder. If there is not time to clean pans inside and out after a dinner it is a good plan to fill each with hot water and to put a bit of soda into the water. This should be done as soon as the pan has been used. Set it by the side of the stove to keep hot, then rinse it thoroughly out. Silver-sand will clean the inside in a minute or two, and the polishing of the outside can be left till the next day. But, whatever the hour may he, only a slattern will put a pan away dirty. The Kitchen Store-cupboard. — The cook requires several things which should be ready to her hand. Among these are salt, mustard-flour, white and black pepper, mignonette and Nepaul pepper, herb seasonings, breadcrumbs, raspings, grated cheese, mushroom ketchup, French-wine- vinegar, both red and white, anchovy vinegar, glaze, salad oil, sifted sugar, lump sugar, tomato conserve, and Parisian essence24 KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY or caramel for colouring. No great quantity of any of these need be provided, but they should all be conveniently airanged in the cupboard. Spices ai'e sometimes required, and grocers’ sauces may be very occasionally required, but both should be kept away from the cook till needed, and kept under lock and key as carefully as the “ poison cupboard ” in the ward of an infirmary. Herb seasonings are given in the chapter on Herbs. A very useful herb seasoning for soups is made by drying by the fire two ounces each of parsley, winter savory, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme; and one ounce of basil and of lemon peel cut very thin and dried. Pound all in a mortar, pass through a hair sieve, and bottle for use. If celery seed is in the store-cupboard the cook must be careful in using it. The flavour is so strong that one drachm, or a small saltspoonful. will flavour a quart of soup as much as could be done by two large heads of fresh celery. Wyvern suggests as a stock sauce for the cook’s store-cupboard an ounce of melted glaze, a gill of mushroom ketchup, half a gill of walnut pickle vinegar, the same of tomato ketchup, a dessert- spoonful of red-currant jelly, and a gill of marsala. All to be mixed together, well shaken when used, and a teaspoonful to be added to half a pint of the brown sauce used with hashes and stews. Grated cheese must be kept in a large tightly- corked bottle. The least damp will spoil it. A pound or two of Parmesan cheese (or of dry mild Cheddar) should be bought and grated from time to time ready for use. Bi’eadcrumbs must always be at hand and in plenty. It is essential to make them dry, and not spongy, for if the crumbs are moist they retain some of the fat used for frying and become greasy, so that anything coated with them looks most unsightly. For the white crumbs used for the crumbing of fish, cutlets, rissoles, etc., place any slices or remnants of white bread for a short time in the oven. Let them crisp but do not let them colour, then pound them in a mortar, sift them, and keep them in a bottle. For raspings or chapelure, either grate crusts of bread, or put slices of bread in the oven till they have browned well. Pound, sift, and bottle as before. Both these kinds of breadcrumbs should be made from time to time, and not kept too long or they may become musty.25 THE KITCHEN STORE-CUPBOARD It is absurd to buy “ vintage ” wines for cooking. A good sound Sicilian Marsala is quite sufficient when Madeira or Sherry is mentioned in recipes, and an inexpensive Sauterne answers perfectly for the “vin blanc” of French chefs. It is obvious that brandy, rum, and liqueurs should not be kept in the kitchen store-cupboard, but given out as wanted. Weights and measures are given on pages 27 and 28. Bottles of wine can never be depended upon to hold a cei'tain number of ounces, only “ reputed ” pints and quarts. A bottle of brandy, however, must hold exactly twenty-six ounces, and no lesser quantity of brandy can be sold in a bottle. Chutneys, if liked, should be at hand in the kitchen store- cupboard. For Apple Chutney, roast six apples, mash them to a pulp and colour them tomato-red with beetroot juice. Add two shallots, a tablespoonful of Chili vinegar, a salt- spoonful of cayenne and of salt, and simmer very gently till the Chutney is of the consistency of thick cream. When cool, put it into half-pint bottles and cork it well down. For Chutney to be eaten at once, Cucumber Chutney and Mint Chutney are excellent. For Cucumber Chutney “ Wyvern ” advises this method. Cut the cucumber into thin julienne- like strips an inch long. Allow of these three heaped- up tablespoonfuls to a teaspoonful of finely-minced chives, of chopped green capsicum, and of parsley. Moisten with a dessertspoonful of vinegar in which a pinch of sugar has been dissolved, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, and dust over it salt and black pepper at discretion. For Mint Chutney, blanch mint leaves for seven minutes, drain, press out all moisture, and pound them. Allow two tablespoonfuls of mint leaves to a teaspoonful of grated green ginger, half a teaspoonful of minced onion and of Chili, and add a little vinegar, just enough to sharpen the taste of the Chutney. Green ginger is the ordinary root of the tropical herb ginger, only not dried or bleached. It can be bought in London. Tamarind Chutney is uncommon, and is much liked. The West India tamarinds are the most useful, as the pods of the West India tamarind tree are much smaller than those of the East Indian variety. For Tamarind Chutney, pound together a tablespoonful of tamarinds and the same of green gingei'.26 KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY Season with, a little salt, a teaspoonful of minced green chilis, and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed roasted in butter. Mix thoroughly and serve. [Wyvern.'] Mrs. Earle's Chutney. Take equal parts of cucumber, onion, and sultanas, all shred very fine. Add a dust of cayenne and a dust of salt, moisten with a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and press the Chutney for two hours. When wanted, warm up the Chutney in a little gravy, and let it get cold. Chutneys, besides being useful in grill and devil sauces, are often liked with hot roast meat, or with cold meat, game, or chicken. It is a pity to buy them preserved when they can be so easily made at home, fresh as wanted. Chutney is a Hindustani word, Chatni, meaning a strong hot condiment. Indian chutneys, such as mango, are said to be best when imported from Madras. Walnut Ketchup has now as a rule to be bought, but for the benefit of those who possess walnut trees, and who can therefore obtain the fruit before the inner shell has begun to harden, an old recipe for making it may be given. Take one hundred walnuts when a pin may be thrust through them. Beat them in a mortar, and pass them through a flannel bag. Add to the juice three tablespoonfuls of salt, and as much vinegar as will give the walnuts a sharpness. Boil the liquid in a metal pan, and stir it well. Add to it a quarter of an ounce each of mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and a few white peppercorns, all beat together. When it is of the colour of claret the ketchup is done enough. When cold, bottle it, and it will last for years. When the cook has all these ingredients for flavouring at her command it is of importance that she should not use them freely and at her own discretion. The quantities of each ingredient, as given in the recipes, must be faithfully and accurately followed. It cannot be too often impressed upon the cook, especially ■with regard to salt, sugar, and pepper, that although the flavour may easily be increased in the dining room it can never be reduced if overdone in the kitchen, and that many a good dish is irretrievably spoiled by the predominance of one particular seasoning.2? *■ WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Always use scales for dry measure. Never guess at the quantities. For liquids use a medicine-glass for small quanti- ties up to two fluid ounces, and a set of measures for larger quantities. Dry Measure. A pinch. ... ... = one eighth of an ounce. A silver saltspoonful ... = one drachm. A kitchen saltspoonful = two drachms. One tablespoonful, dry = one ounce. A handful. This, for a person not accustomed to hold flour and wearing gloves No. 7 in size, may be reckoned as about three ounces. • A lump of butter or dripping the size of a walnut or small egg will weigh one ounce. Sixteen drachms Sixteen ounces... Twenty-eight pounds... Four quarters, or 112 pounds ... Twenty hundredweight One quart, dry One gallon, dry One peck One bushel A quartern of flour A stone or peck of flour A sack of flour... A sack of potatoes A stone of meat one ounce, one pound, one quarter. one hundredweight, one ton. two pints, four quarts, two gallons, four pecks. three and a half pounds, two gallons. 280 pounds. 168 pounds, eight pounds.28 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES Liquid Measure. One teaspoonfnl or one drachm One dessertspoonful ... One tablespoonful Two tablespoonfuls Five tablespoonfuls ... A sherry glass... A coffee-cup A tea-cup A breakfast-cup An ordinary tumbler ... Twenty ounces Two pints Eight pints or four quarts A bottle of brandy = sixty drops. = two teaspoonfuls. = four teaspoonfuls. = one fluid ounce. = one gill. = half a gill. = one gill. = one gill and a half. = half a pint. = half a pint. = one pint. = one quart. = one gallon. = twenty-six ounces.29 CHAPTEB II. ON SOUPS. Years ago Soups were regarded as very extravagant luxuries, consuming vast quantities of meat with many expensive additions. English cooks did not understand Soup making, and would declare that at least a pound of meat per head was absolutely necessary. The result was that each guest might as well have begun his dinner by eating a whole jar of Brand’s essence of beef. Isinglass was also considered necessary, as well as wine, spices, and various sauces. Even now it is not always recognised that Soup can be made easily and inexpen- sively, and that even in the best kinds of Soup extravagance is not necessary. But care and patience on the part of the cook is needed in the preparation of all Soups. Soups are divided into three classes : 1. Clear Soups. 2. Thickened Soups, in which the thickening is produced by the addition of flour, .butter, cream, or eggs. 3. Purees, in which poultry, game, shell-fish, or vegetables (fresh or dried), have been rubbed through a tamis-cloth or a sieve, made into a pulp, and stock added to them. But all Soups begin in the stock-pot, in which the clear strong broth, or stock, which is their foundation, is produced. Stock is also essential to many gravies and sauces. Much of the success of the stock-pot depends upon the intelligence, as well as upon the care, of the cook. In some hands the stock-pot becomes an expensive luxury ; in others its cost is very small. Again, in old days, cooks could hardly be persuaded to use the 'stock-pot except on those great3° SOUPS occasions when they put quantities of the best gravy-beef into it. Now, some modern cooks look upon the stock-pot as a sort of perpetually simmering pig-tub, into which anything and everything can be thrown. In these cases the mistress must explain to the cook that it is quite impossible to make eatable soup by the boiling down and cooking for uncalculated hours of all sorts of scraps, and that by such a practice materials and fuel are both wasted. Discrimination must be used as to what is put into the stock-pot, and some things must never be put into it at all. These are : 1. Scraps or bones which comeback to the kitchen on plates which have been used at meals. 2. Pieces of fat, which would spoil the Soup, but can be otherwise used. 3. Potatoes and cabbage, whether raw or cooked. Potatoes would poison the water in the stock-pot, cabbage would make the Soup uneatable. 4. Pieces of bread and toast, which should be reserved for making crumbs. 5. Remains of sauces, which, valuable if laid aside and used again, would turn the stock sour. Copper 'stock-pots have been in general use for many years, but they are expensive to begin with and require tinning every year. The seamless steel stock-pots are excellent, and so are the French marmites of glazed earthenware; both are much cheaper than copper, and of course they require no tinning. A family stock-pot should hold eight quarts. It must be kept perfectly clean, and to ensure this it should be well scalded with boiling water in which a lump of soda has been dissolved. This must be done every time before the stock-pot is used. If there is a gas-stove in the kitchen the stock-pot should be placed upon it, as the heat can be easily regulated. This is difficult to manage on the fire, as if the stock-pot has to be taken off whilst the fire is mended the stock will cool and be injured, if not spoilt altogether. It is best to make stock in small quantities for family use. If begun in the morning the whole process of heating, skim- ming, simmering, and straining can be slowly carried on, and the broth can be set aside in an earthenware bowl for use next31 SOUPS day. But in this case no vegetables must be used, or the stock will not keep. They must be added when it is boiled up next day. The proportionate quantities of meat and water must be most carefully attended to : one quart of water to one pound of meat and bone. No stock should be allowed to get cool in the I stock-pot, and the stock-pot should be cleaned out and dried every time it is emptied. All stock-pots must remain either wholly or partially uncovered if clear soup is to be made, for if the stock-pot is covered the stock will become turbid, and no efforts can clear the soup. Stock for clear soup is better made the day before it is wanted, as it takes time to clear. It used to be thought that bones should be left out in making clear soup, for fear of its becoming clouded, but if the bones are broken into small pieces, the marrow removed, and the stock patiently and carefully skimmed, this result need not be feared. But the meat and bones must be covered thoroughly by the water in the stock-pot. To make Stock.—Take one pound and a half of beef, cut from the leg and not from the shoulder, and ascertain that the beef is freshly hilled, not merely fresh. Take half a pound of fresh beef-bones, break them into three-inch lengths, remove and reserve all the marrow. Bones, being nearly half gelatine, give consistency to the stock, but they add no flavour. Cut the meat into two-inch squares. Lay the pieces of bone at the bottom of the stock-pot, put the meat upon them, add a quarter of an ounce of salt, and three pints and a half of cold water. The water must completely cover the meat; but on no account follow the old practice of soaking the meat and bones in cold water before putting them into the stock-pot. Put the stock-pot on the gas-stove or fire, and let it heat very slowly and gradually, going step by step “ from cold to cool, from cool to warn, and from warm to hot.” Whilst this process is beginning, wash the vegetables to be used, cut them up, and leave them in a bowl of cold water. Take five ounces of carrot, of leeks, and of onions, (if liked, a clove may be stuck in the onion), one ounce of parsnip (or an extra ounce of carrot), and one ounce of celery. 'When turnips are young use five ounces of turnip, but old turnips are apt to turn the stock sour. ash and dry a small bunch of parsley,SOUPS 32 fold it over a sprig of thyme and a bay leaf, and tie the little bouquet with twine. Have a net ready for the vegetables. Now watch the stock-pot, increase the fire under it very gradually, and as soon as you see any scum rise skim it off with a wooden spoon. Go on increasing the heat, more at the sides of the stock-pot than under it, but do it as slowly as possible. Skim off the scum as often as you see any, and when the stock is nearly boiling throw in a coffeecupful of cold water. This will check the boil and make the scum rise more freely. Do this again and again till the surface of the stock is perfectly clear. Recollect that if the stock at this period is once allowed to boil it never can become clear soup. Wipe the edges of the stock-pot with a clean cloth. Now let the contents boil, and add the vegetables in their net. They will, of course, reduce the boiling, but it will soon begin again. When it does, reduce the heat, and let the stock-pot only simmer. Try the vegetables with a skewer, and lift out the net as soon as they and the herbs are done. If the vegetables are left to soak in the stock the stock will be spoilt. They must be put aside for further use. The stock-pot must now be allowed to simmer gently for about five hours. The meat will be cooked by that time, and although part of its goodness will have been extracted much nourishment remains. “ Boiling to rags ” is foolish as well as wasteful. When the meat is done, strain the soup into an earthenware basin, leave it to get cool. Then remove any fat, but never put away the broth with fat cooling on the surface. It cannot keep good if you do. As soon as the fat has settled remove the whole of it, melt it, strain it through muslin, and use it for frying. For straining soup a soup- straining stand is most useful, and quite inexpensive. But a kitchen chair turned upside down, with its seat above the seat of a similar chair, can be used. The tamis-cloth must be thoroughly scalded before it is used. If chairs are needed, tie the tamis-cloth round the legs of the uppermost chair, fastening it very tightly to them with string. Let the tamis-cloth bag a little in the middle, but see that it is tightly stretched at the sides. On the seat of the lower chair1 a basin must be put to receive the soup. Use a ladle, not a cup, and let the soup run very gently through the tamis-cloth. If the first few ladlefulsTO MAKE STOCK 33 < look cloudy, pour the contents of the basin very slowly back into the tamis-cloth and let them run through again. There ought not to be any “ eyes ” of fat left on the soup, but, if there are any, draw them off with strips of tissue paper. The above quantities will make clear soup for eight people. For a party of ten or twelve allow two pounds and a half of beef, three-quarters of a pound of broken bones, and sixpenny- worth of fowl giblets. Add two ounces weight to each vegetable, and one ounce of celery. The flavour of the celery would overpower everything else if more were used, and it is important that the taste of no particular vegetable should predominate. If three quarts of soup are needed allow three pounds of meat, one pound of bone, ten ounces of carrots, onions, and turnips, fourteen ounces of leeks, two ounces of parsnip, and one ounce of celery. Use leeks if possible, but if they cannot be got allow five ounces more onion. The usual allowance of soup is a quarter of a pint for each guest, but at home dinners gentlemen generally like half a pint. Clarifying- Soup.—If the soup has been kept simmering- at a temperature of from 170° to 180°—boiling point being 212° —and if it has been thoroughly skimmed and carefully strained, it ought to be clear. But it is often the case that clarifying is needed. It is a great mistake to do this with white of egg only, as the soup loses flavour in consequence. The proper way is to use raw meat mixed with the whole of a raw egg, being careful not to use any of the shell. Take a pound of freshly killed raw beef, chop it up, and pass it through the mincing machine. Carefully remove all fat, gristle, and sinew. Put the meat into a basin, and break the egg into it. Add two tablespoonfuls (one ounce) of the cold broth, and whisk all together to a pulp. Do not add any vegetables or herbs. The meat ought to be very finely minced; it may require to pass through the machine a second time. Now put the cold soup which you wish to clear on the gas-stove, stir in the whisked pulp of meat and egg, and go on stirring till the soup is just beginning to boil. Draw the pan gently, and without shaking it, to the side of the stove, and let the soup settle, whilst simmering over gentle heat for one hour. Then D34 SOUPS scald tlie soup cloth, take the soup off, and ladle it through the cloth as gently as possible, being most careful not to disturb the sediment. The stock ought to be the colour of pale sherry, clear and bright. Good as the above clear soup is, it is not the Consomme required for dinner parties. Consomme, however, is made in just the same way. For the quantity required for eight people boil with the beef one pound of veal cut from the knuckle, and a quarter of a pound of veal bones. For the soups in which two pounds and a half of beef is used, add one and a half pound of veal and half a pound of veal bones. Be most particular about the clarifying. For Fowl Consomme Wyvern recommends the French method of roasting in the oven the carcase of a fowl till it is just coloured. Only the carcase is used, for the white meat has been saved for an entree, and the legs and thighs for a grill. It is a most valuable addition, as it gives a special flavour to the broth. In Fowl Consomme wait till the broth has been strained, and when you boil it up again boil in it the roasted carcase, with a pound of veal, and the uncooked giblets of the fowl. Ho veal is required in Game Consomme, but an old bird should if possible be cut up and boiled in the strained soup. If this cannot be, game bones must be broken and boiled in it. Bouilli.—Most English people look with horror and con- tempt on the beef from which soup has been extracted, recollecting the wretched mess of sodden meat which they have eaten abroad. Beef indeed is seldom tasted fresh by a foreigner, and he is quite satisfied with Bouilli. But when good English beef is used, and not the tough ill-fed meat of foreign oxen, worn out as they are by labouring in ploughs and carts, Bouilli is not to be despised. It makes an excellent dish for luncheon or for a home dinner. But when wanted for this, the beef should not be cut up. Three pounds of the leg should be taken, rolled up, and tied with a string. Care must be exercised that it is not more cooked than is necessary for the broth, and this is easily managed, as the quantity of beef is double that allowed for the broth alone. When it is done, lay the beef on a bed of well-boiled macaroni in a hot dish, and take away tlie string. Rub the vegetables taken from theBOUILLI 35 r net through a sieve, moistening them with a little broth, and arrange them round the beef. Bouilli prepared in this way, and with grated Parmesan and tomato puree added to the macaroni, is excellent, and of course the meat is very tender. It is the Manzo G-uernito of Italian dinners, infinitely improved by the different quality of the beef. Colouring*.—It is difficult to advise on this point. The old-fashioned methods of using burnt onion, Worcester sauce, and such harsh ingredients, must never be followed. The French essence, sue colorant, sold by all good grocers, is the least troublesome to use, and a few drops improve the flavour of the soup. Caramel is a good browning for soups, and it is so often useful in other ways that a recipe will be given for it later on. The new Pastilles de legumes impart a flavour of their own, which is by no means to be recommended. But when English people believe, if they ever do, that clear bright golden- coloured soup can be the strongest essence of meat, no colouring will be needed at all. For vegetable soups “ Greening ” is easily and wholesomely made by boiling and draining spinach, working it through the sieve, and then straining it through muslin. This is useful in all green vegetable purees. Some people add a pinch of sugar to these soups, but others find that the natural sweetness of such vegetables as carrots, peas or artichokes is sufficient, and prefer, on the other hand, that purees of French beans, celery, tomatoes, rice, barley, etc., should not be sweetened. For White Soups the stock must be made of veal and veal bones. For a party of eight, allow two pounds of knuckle of veal, and one pound of veal bones. This stock will not be coloured like that made from beef. “Wyvern’s” Vegetable Stock. —Slice up two pounds of carrots, two ounces of celery, a handful of parsley, a dessert- spoonful of thyme and marjoram blended, and a shallot. [ Wyvern really advises a clove of garlic.] Put them into a stewpan with one pound of well-clarified beef suet or the fat skimmed from the pot-au-feu. Fry till lightly coloured, then add five quarts of water. Boil up slowly and skim. Then add one ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, three cloves, a pinch of allspice, and in the season a quart measure of green D 2SOUPS 36 peas, with their shells also, cut into strips. Boil up again, then simmer over a gentle fire for three hours, and strain the bi'oth into a basin, take off the fat, and put by for use when wanted. Another way, with dried vegetables in part, is to boil one quart of white haricot beans and one quart of lentils in six quarts of water, with five ounces of onion and a bunch of herbs. Simmer for three hours, strain, and use this vegetable broth to moisten the fried vegetables in Vegetable Purees. Add the seasoning only, simmer for three hours, skim the puree, and strain. Take of course half quantities to make two and a half quarts of Vegetable Stock. All the vegetables can be used again as purees in the centre of a dish of cutlets, etc., after having yielded their broth. The above Vegetable Stock is in itself a pleasantly flavoured soup. Mingled with purees it takes the place of meat stock. And, blended with meat, it forms a most strengthening soup for those convalescents who are sufficiently recovered to benefit by strong essences of meat and vegetable. An Invalid's Soup.—Take a fowl or rabbit, if aged no matter, cut it to pieces, bones and all, while fresh, with a chopper, and pound the mass in a mortar. Chop up also two pounds of the best fresh lean gravy beef, season with pepper and salt, mix the two meats together and give them a few turns in a roomy stewpan with enough melted clarified suet and broth to draw the glaze. Now add little by little the whole of the vegetable stock, stirring well all the time. Boil (adding water now and then to make good the loss of liquid by evaporation) for one horn’. Strain off the soup, leave it to get cold, and then remove every trace of fat. This soup can be given to the invalid in small quantities, iced or hot, as may be desired. Clear Ox-Tail Soup.—Divide the tail at the joints, and then chop each piece in half. Blanch them for three minutes in boiling' water, drain and dry them. Melt an ounce of butter in a roomy stewpan, and put in four ounces of chopped onion, three of carrot, three of turnip, one ounce of celery, and a sprig of parsley. Fry the vegetables gently, and put in the pieces of tail. Cook all together till slightly coloured, then moisten with half a pint of warm broth. Continue the37 CLEAR OX-TAIL SOUP r cooking until the liquid becomes almost a glaze, then cover all with warm broth, bring slowly to the boil, skimming carefully. When clear of scum, put into the broth a dessert- spoonful of dried herbs sewn up in muslin, or fresh herbs if they can be got. Simmer slowly till the tail meat is tender and leaves the bone on pressure. This will take three hours and a half. Strain off the broth into a bowl. When cold take off all fat, and clarify with twelve ounces of raw beef and one whole egg, not using the shell. Strain, warm up, and serve garnished with a few pieces of the tail meat cut into squares. Garnish also with a tablespoonful of vegetables, shaped with the pea-cutter, and, of course, separately cooked. Ox-Tail Soup suffers more often than most soups from the addition of the much-to-be-dreaded kitchen sherry. Wine is not in the least necessary, but, if liked, a gill of good Marsala should be added when the meat and vegetables are first moistened with warm broth. Thick Ox-Tail Soup .—This should be made the day, or day but one, after Clear Ox-Tail, using the same meat and the same stock, which, of course, has now become second stock. Boil up the stock, cool it, strain it, and take off any fat. Choose four ounces of the best lean meat from the Ox-tail; to ensure this, three joints should be saved when the Clear Ox-tail is served. Pound this meat to a paste, and pass it through the wire sieve. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir into it half an ounce of flour, and mix well together for three minutes. Then moisten this Roux with a pint and a half of the Ox-tail second stock, passing in the meat puree as well. Bring it to the boil, simmer for ten minutes, and then pass it through the hair sieve. Warm up when required, and, if liked, add one dessertspoonful of Marsala. (Adapted from Wyvern.) Croutes-au-Pot.—This is one of the best French Clear Soups, and has never been superseded by more modern varieties. For eight people take one pound and a half of fresh leg of beef, and three-quarters of a pound of lean veal, one pound of veal bones chopped small, and sixpennyworth of chicken giblets, scalded and cut up small. Cut the meat into inch33 SOUPS squares, lay them at the bottom of a stock-pot, sprinkle with half an once of salt, and cover with three pints and a half of cold water. Put over a very low fire—uncovered—and bring very slowly to the boil, skimming carefully. While this is going on put the bones and giblets in a buttered baking-tin in the oven to brown, and when the broth has been thoroughly skimmed and allowed to come to the boil add them. Add also the same quantities of vegetables as in the recipe for making stock (p. 31) and follow that recipe exactly, clarifying with raw beef and an egg. Cut the bottom crust of a tinned loaf with the same thick- ness of crumb as of crust. Cut it into rounds the size of a florin, soak these in some stock from the soup, and put them on a buttered tin into the oven, where they should remain until crisp and dry. Cut some slices of carrot, turnip, and celery, cook them till tender in some of the stock. Add these vegetables just before serving, and put the crusts into the soup at the very last moment. Slices of onion may be added to the other sliced vegetables, and some pieces of cabbage boiled separately. But these are not generally considered an improvement. Clear Game Soup.—Pluck and draw two old partridges, cut them up, saving the breast meat but using all the rest, and breaking all bones of any size with a chopper. Make beef stock as usual, and when you have obtained as strong a stock as possible (not using vegetables) strain it, let it get cool. Remove all fat, and when quite clear pour the stock into a large bowl. Row take all the pieces of partridge except the breast meat, the bones, and the giblets. Put them into a stewpan with four ounces of sliced onion and of carrot, an ounce of celery sliced, herbs, and seasoning. Pry over a low fire in four ounces of clarified suet, add a gill of the stock and reduce to a glaze, so as to extract all the partridge essence. After the glaze has formed moisten with the stock, add all the stock by degrees, bring it slowly to the boil, and then simmer gently for one hour. Strain, cool, and clarify with beef. Cut the breast meat in neat strips, cook them in some of the stock, and add them to the clear soup. Wyvern adds half a glass of Marsala. Of course any game can be used.CLEAR HARE SOUP 39 Clear Hare Soup.—(Recipes for Hare Soup thickened with the blood of the hare must be sought in other books.) Prepare the hare exactly in the same way as the partridges in the last recipe. But as the whole of the hare will not be wanted, use for the soup only the head, neck, shoulders, and hind legs. The back and loins, called by French cooks the Ruble, should be kept for roasting. Sir Henry Thompson’s Clear Vegetable Soup.—Slice two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, two onions. Put them into a frying-pan with a few sweet herbs and half a pound of butter. Fry until well browned, then put them with three or four cloves, salt and black pepper, into six pints of cold water in a saucepan. Bring to the boil and gently simmer for two or three horn’s, reducing to four pints, not less. Strain off into a basin, and let it stand for use. When required, pour off the clear liquor, leaving the deposit, and you will have a good vegetable stock. If it is to be used as a clear vegetable soup, heat, adding at the close two tablespoonfuls of corn flour previously mixed smooth in some of the liquor, and letting the whole boil. If any scum arises, remove it. Clear Lettuce Soup.—Take as many long narrow-leaved lettuces as there are persons at dinner. Wash and drain them. Fold each lettuce neatly in three, and tie each. Stew in broth with an ounce of butter. Use a wide shallow pan, so that the little bundles of lettuce (like folded gloves) do not touch each other. Have good clear soup in a tureen, lay each lettuce in a hot soup-plate, and pour a ladleful of soup over each. Clear Soup with Poached Eggs.—Poach one egg for each person, and trim them neatly, leaving as little margin of white as possible. Have good bouillon in a tureen, and flavour it with a few leaves of tarragon. Put each egg on a hot soup-plate, and help the soup upon them. This prevents any danger of breaking the eggs in ladling them out of the tureen. Tarragon has a strong flavour, and care must be taken not to use too much of it. Mulligatawny Soup.—The word Mulligatunny, as it should be spelt, comes fx-om two Tamil words Milagu, pepper, and Tannir, water. In Southern India, this broth, eaten with quantities of rice, foims the staple food of the inhabitants.SOUPS 40 Mulligatawny is so often badly made in England that the name “ pepper water” is painfully appropriate. But by following the recipe of Wyvern, himself long resident in the Madras Presidency, an excellent Mulligatawny Soup can be made. The Stock for Mulligatawny can be made on either a meat and poultry, a fish, or a vegetable foundation. For the first any trimmings will do, with a pound of broken bones, some bacon rind, an ounce of glaze, two onions, one carrot, and a bunch of herbs. For Fish, use a cod’s head, or a pound of fish cuttings. For Vegetable Stock weigh, when trimmed and cut up, half a pound of carrots, of leeks, and of onions. If turnips are quite young half a pound of them may be used, but they are apt to be too strong. Add one ounce of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme and another of marjoram. Put all these into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, fry till the vegetables turn red, and then add two quarts of hot water. Boil and skim, then put the broth back and add half an ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper-corns, and half a pint measure of green peas, with their shells cut into strips. If peas are not in season a pint of French beans may be used, or both peas and French beans can be added. Simmer for one hour, skim off all fat, and strain the broth into a basin through a tamis-cloth. Wyvern proceeds : Having prepared three pints of stock, and set it in a bowl 1. Take two tablespoonfuls of scraped or dessicated cocoa- nut, and two of ground sweet almonds, or use almonds only; put this in a bowl and pour over it a breakfast-cupful (two gills) of boiling water, cover the bowl with a cloth, and let the nuts steep till wanted. 2. Now mince up small two ounces of shallots or mild onion (with one small clove of garlic). Melt an ounce and a half of butter at the bottom of a two-quart stewpan, put in the mince and let it fry over a low fire slowly till it begins to turn brown, then add two full tablespoonfuls of mulligatawny paste, and a dessertspoonful of creme de riz. 3. Cook slowly now for seven minutes, still over a low fire, stirring the mixture with a wooden spoon, and if too dry adding a little butter.MULLIGATAWNY SOUP 4i 4. Next put in a coffeecupful of the broth, mix well, increase the heat below the stewpan, and by degrees add the whole of the broth—three pints altogether. 5. Bring this to the boil, skimming off the scum, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour. 6. After this pass the broth through the block-tin strainer to get rid of pieces of onion, etc. 7. If at all lumpy the soup must be again strained, and then the nutty infusion, squeezed through muslin, must be pressed into it. 8. Heat up almost to boiling point and serve. If rice is handed it should be boiled like rice for curry, and tinted (if thought necessary) with a saltspoonful of turmeric. A lemon cut in quarters should always be handed with Mulligatawny. The above recipe is for thin Mulligatawny. If the richer thick kind, or the more difficult clear sort, or Ox-tail and Mulligatawny soup, the queue de boeuf a la Indienne of London clubs, are wanted Wyvern gives excellent recipes for all. Dessicated cocoa-nut and ground sweet almonds can be bought at any good grocer’s ; the nutty milk produced by them is a most important ingredient in Mulligatawny. Mulligatawny paste should be procured from some first-rate shop. In its absence a dessertspoonful of curry powder and the same of curry paste might be used. For purees of haricots, split peas, and lentils, during the winter months it is an excellent plan to work the eau de cuisson, or water in which they have been boiled, with the Mulligatawny paste, just as the stock is used in thin Mulliga- tawny. (Many people dislike the flavour of cocoa-nut, in which case the nutty infusion is easily made of sweet almonds.) Bonne Femme, or Sorrel Soup.—This excellent soup requires some care, but it is well worth careful attention. Fry four ounces of minced onion in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter over a low fire for five minutes, but do not let the onion colour. Next add four ounces of well-picked sorrel leaves, one ounce of chervil, and about two ounces of lettuce- leaves, all shredded, with a saltspoonful of salt and the same ofSOUPS 42 castor sugar. Stir over the fire for five minutes more, and then mix in one ounce of flour. Cook this with the vegetables for another five minutes, after which moisten by degrees with three gills of milk and three gills of warm water; bring slowly to the boil, and simmer for 35 minutes. Break an egg, both white and yolk, into a small bowl, and beat it well, adding an ounce of butter. Take the soup off the fire, put a gill of it into the bowl with the egg, mix and melt the butter. Put four nice slices of French roll (which have been dried in the oven) at the bottom of the soup tureen, pour in the soup, stir into it the liaison from the bowl, and serve. Mind that the egg is thoroughly beaten, or flakes of the white will set when the soup is added to it and spoil the appearance of the whole. Broth can be used instead of the milk and water. [Wyvern.] Soup a la Reine.—This, the best of all French White Soups, used to be thought too expensive for any but great occasions owing to the number of fowls required. But, again, Wyvern has solved this difficulty. For a party of eight his recipe is : The day before the dinner prepare an uncoloured stock of two pounds of veal stock-meat, one pound of well- broken veal bones, and sixpennyworth of chicken giblets. (The giblets of geese and ducks are strong in flavour.) Prepare the stock as usual with vegetables. Remove the meat from a cold partly-roasted rabbit, excluding all skin and browned parts. Add to this half its weight in white bread-crumbs soaked in milk, and pound both together in a mortar with a tablespoonful and a half of ground sweet almonds and the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs. Mash the bones and trimmings of the rabbit and put them into the veal stock, of which there should be two pints and a half. Let this simmer for from two to three hours, adding stock to make good loss by evaporation. Pass the pounded rabbit and crumbs through the sieve to get rid of lumps or gristle, moistening it with stock as you do so. Now strain off your stock from the bones and set it to get cool, removing all fat that may rise to the surface. Melt an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce- pan, stir in an ounce of flour, add a little stock, and work this Roux without ceasing, gradually pouring in the stock and adding the rabbit paste. Now let the Ruree come to the boil,SOUP A LA REINE 43 remove the saucepan from the fire, and as you pour it into the tureen stir into it a coffeecupful of the soup with which the strained yolk of an egg has been mixed. Be careful to clear all white from the yolk, or it will set in flaky pieces and spoil the look of the soup. Should this by any accident occur, the whole should be passed through the strainer before serving. Vegetable Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Fry a little onion (about four ounces) in bacon fat. Cut two carrots, two leeks, and two young turnips into good-sized pieces. Boil the vege- tables in a pint and a half of stock. Then add three table- spoonfuls of rice previously well boiled. Boil all together for twenty minutes. Cold Soup, for very hot weather.—Make a good clear soup, and add three ounces of Gfroult’s Tapioca. Let it stand in a cold place till wanted, and serve when just liquid. Dried Turtle Soup.—Buy Sun-Dried Turtle at a first-rate shop, so that you may be sure not to get conger eel. Half a pound of dried turtle must be allowed for a quart of soup ; and four days must be allowed for making it. Soak the pieces of dried turtle in cold water for three days and three nights, changing the water night and morning. After this soaking the pieces of turtle will be found three times the size that they were when dry. Make an uncoloured stock with knuckle of veal and broken veal bones, and use plenty of vegetables and herbs. Basil is the herb peculiarly suited to turtle soup, and two or three sprigs of it should be used, with a sprig of thyme and of marjoram, and two bay leaves. Add six peppercorns, but no salt, for as the turtle takes so long to cook it would become too salt. Simmer the pieces of turtle in the stock for twelve hours. Strain off the vegetables, remove all fat, cut the pieces of turtle into convenient sizes, and put them back into the heated soup. Add a dessertspoonful of fine arrow- root, a glass of Marsala, and a good squeeze of lemon; boil for a few minutes, and serve. Quarters of lemon should be handed. Dried-turtle Soup should not be much thickened, and should be greenish in colour. Thickened Soups.—In Thickened Soups French people have a method which we might follow with advantage. This is to add bread freely to the soup. The bread is not cutSOUPS 44 haphazard, but in small thin slanting or diagonal slices, and, for some reason as yet unexplained, slanting slices mix themselves with the soup in a way that square slices never will. Another excellent plan at a home dinner is to cut off the bottom crust of a tinned loaf so that there is as much crumb as crust. Divide these into pieces the size of a gentleman’s visiting-card. Soak them till perfectly soft in some of the soup, then crisp them in the oven, lay one in each soup-plate, and pour the hot soup over it. The usual fault of thickened soups is that they are too thick, sometimes more like gruel than soup. The cook can so easily avoid this error that it seems strange that she should commit it at all. But the reason is that she has never been told, and has never observed, that the full effect of the thickening can only be judged when the soup comes to the boil. The ordinary method of thickening soups (when they are not made unwholesome and expensive by the addition of cream and eggs) is to use what is called by French cooks Roux. Roux can be made either white or brown. To make it, melt two ounces of butter at the bottom of a saucepan over a slow fire, and when it is thoroughly melted add, little by little, two and a half ounces of flour. Stir well with a wooden spoon till the butter and flour are thoroughly mixed together. Reduce the heat still more, and let the Roux cook very slowly. White Roux must not be allowed to be more than cream colour, and it generally requires a quarter of an hour’s cooking. Brown Roux should be of a warm reddish-brown colour, and will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes to cook. If it is overdone it will be ugly in colour and bitter in taste. The flour must be added veiy gently, and the Roux slowly cooked. If not, the mixture will be lumpy, and there will be a taste of rawr flour. Roux is so often needed in sauces as w^ell as in soups that it is worth while to make some to go on wdth. If the proportions of one pound of flour to half a pound of butter are used Roux will keep quite well. Prepared Corn Flours should nevei' be used, nor potatoes, but some cooks put into the Roux whilst it is cooking a bouquet of herbs, containing three leaves of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a shallot well pricked, and two bay leaves. The bouquet, tied together with twine, is removed as soon as it has45 THICKENED SOUPS ' given its flavour to the Roux. But, as a rule, it ’is best to use only good dry well-sifted flour and good butter for making Roux. The cook must bear in mind that the Roux must not be added to the soup, but the soup gently poured over the Roux, off the fire. Stir well, so as to avoid lumps, and when the soup and Roux are thoroughly mixed into each other put the soup back on the fire and let it boil up. If the soup is too thin add an ounce of home-made glaze. The soup will be greasy and lumpy if this process is not very carefully followed. Two ounces of Roux will be sufficient to thicken one quart of soup. If anything containing milk, cream, eggs, or butter, has to be added to the soup, the soup must be slightly cooled, and the additions made at the last minute before serving. The soup is easily cooled by taking it off the fire for a few minutes. Roux contains butter, and therefore is too rich an addition to soups in many cases. An excellent thickening of soups can be made by adding arrowroot, or rice-flour. For a quart of soup take an ounce and a half of rice-flour (the French creme de riz). Mix it very slowly and carefully with a little of the soup, putting the rice-flour in a small basin and adding the soup little by little. When the mixture looks like thick cream pour it through a pointed strainer into the soup, which should be hot but not boiling. Stir well, let the soup boil up, and then let it simmer for ten minutes. [Wyvern.] Thickened soups ought always to be passed through a strainer, as lumps cannot be avoided in every case, even by the most careful cook. Thickened soups, as a rule, are made of Second Stock—viz., of the meat and bones which have already been used as first stock for clear soups. But thickened soups require any additions that can be made to them, as they are notin need of clarifying. The additions are varied in kind, but all or any of them are welcome. Fresh vegetables, bones of meat, of poultry, or of game (cooked or uncooked, but far better uncooked), giblets of birds, trimmings of cutlets, a ham bone, rind of bacon, or the brown skin from a roast joint. If the second stock is weak, add an ounce of home-made glaze. If the glaze has been forgotten, a teaspoonful of Liebig or Bovril must be substituted for it.SOUPS 46 Third Stock exists, as bones do not yield their last tribute of gelatine until the third boiling. In London the Little Sisters of the Poor make use of Third Stock in a wonderful way. In the country it should be saved to moisten poultry food. Mock Turtle Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—{Tvom the cook at the “ Black Swan ” at York.]—Take a calf’s head with the skin on, scald it to take off the hair, soak it in cold water to make it very clean. Simmer it for at least four hours in strong stock made of part of the knuckle of the veal, some shin of beef, and the shank end of a piece of ham. Add to this a head of celery, an onion (stuck with cloves if liked), two carrots, marjoram, parsley, thyme, winter savory, and, above all, sweet basil. (If the herbs are dried tie them in muslin.) Let it stand all night. Next day skim off all fat, take out the bones, and cut the calf’s head into pieces each about an inch square. Cook the pieces slowly in the broth for half an hour. Add one or two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a little cayenne, white pepper, and salt (if required, but the ham will probably make it salt enough). Allow half a pint of Madeira to three quarts of soup, and put the wine into the tureen some time before you pour in the soup. If forcemeat balls are liked make them as on page 52, and add them just as the soup is served. Clear Mock Turtle Soup.—[Wyvern.]—Prepare the calf’s head as in the last recipe, put it in the soup kettle, cover it with cold water and let it simmer slowly for an hour, taking off all fat and scum that may rise. Take it up (it will be about half done), remove the bones and set it with a weight upon it on a dish to flatten and get cold. Now throw the shin, etc., into the soup kettle, adding to the liquor already there from the head the bones just removed, sufficient cold water to cover the bone and meat completely, and an ounce of salt. Proceed now as for consomme, skimming very carefully, and retarding the boiling point as much as you can by periodical additions of water; when boiling takes place ease off the fire, add two sliced onions, a head of celery, two carrots, the rind of two lemons, a large bunch of parsley, a quarter ounce of dried basil (sold in bottles), a teaspoonful of dried thyme and of47 CLEAR MOCK TURTLE SOUP ^marjoram (the herbs in a muslin hag), twelve peppercorns, two anchovies dried, washed and cut up, half a wineglass of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of caramel. Simmer slowly now for about three hours, skimming the surface occasionally, and on no account allowing the soup to boil. Now strain very carefully, and set the soup in a bowl to cool and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head into one-and-a-half inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and pour it into a large saucepan, adding the pieces of bread. Let the pieces cook slowly for half an hour, then drain them, and again strain the soup. Clarify if necessary, adding a glass of Madeira and the juice of a lemon. Let this be heated up finally when required, and pour the soup into the tureen over a dozen or so carefully-selected pieces of the head arranged therein. Serve with lemons cut in quarters. The Basil is most necessary, and the whole success of the soup depends upon strict attention to the flavouring herbs and ingredients. Select gelatinous and not meaty pieces of the head for the garnish, as the garnish is to counterfeit the green fat of the turtle. The meaty squares will come in for another dish. Dean of York’s White Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Take cold veal, any pieces of game or poultry, and a rabbit roasted dry. Grate them into a mortar, and rub them through a tamis-cloth. Add some first veal stock, put all into a stewpan, and pay great attention to stirring and skimming it well. Flavour with a little celery, and add a little white pepper and salt. White Soup.'—(Family Recipe.)—Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan, cut a knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton into pieces the size of a walnut, slice in the meat off part of a knuckle of ham. Add three carrots, two onions sliced, four heads of celery washed clean and cut up, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover the pan close, set it over a slow fire without any water till the gravy is drawn out of the meat, then pour the gravy into a basin, let the meat brown in the saucepan, but do not let it burn. Now pour in four- quarts of hot water, and let the soup simmer gently till it is wasted to three pints. Strain it, put the gravy to it, set the soup on the fire, and add two48 SOUPS ounces of well boiled rice, pepper and salt, and serve. Or begin by covering a lai’ge knuckle of veal with water, and simmering it till the gravy is drawn out. If the soup is liked rich, add the yolks of two eggs beat up in a quarter of a pint of cream just before serving, and when the soup is off the fire. Or put into the tureen a French roll cut up, with a little well- boiled and plumped vermicelli laid on each piece. Pour the soup upon this. The Country Doctor’s Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Quantity for one basin. Take one pound of lean beef cut in thin shavings, and put it into two pints of cold water. Simmer very gradually down to half the quantity, adding plenty of all sorts of vegetables, a good bunch of herbs, and just a pinch of pepper and of salt. A couple of sliced onions give it a pleasant flavour. Sir William Farrington’s Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Make strong broth of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, or of lean beef, whichever is most convenient. Add plenty of sweet herbs, but on no account thicken the broth. When strong enough put in two lettuces tom, two cucumbers pared and sliced (but not too thin), and a pint of nice young peas. Simmer very slowly for three-quarters of an hour, and send to table with the vegetables in the soup. Colour the soup a light brown, and shake in a little cayenne pepper if agreeable. Hare Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Take an old hare, wash it in several waters, cut it in small pieces, put it into three quarts of boiling water. Add half a teacupful of washed rice, two onions, a good bunch of herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Let the soup simmer for five hours, when it will be reduced to half the quantity. Strain it off. Melt in a saucepan an ounce of butter, mix with this an ounce of flour, and a glass of p art wine. Pour the soup on this, bring it to the boil, and serve. (The hare will pot or hash afterwards.) Hare Soup made of Cooked Hare.—(Family Recipe.)— Take three pints of water, put all remains of the hare into it, with one sliced onion, some thyme and parsley. Simmer till the soup is reduced to a quart. Strain. Cut off any nice pieces of the hare and chop them small. Thicken with a little49 HARE SOUP MADE OF COOKED HARE flour and butter, give a dust of cayenne, add a gill of red wine, pour in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve. Friar’s Chicken.—Cover a knuckle of veal with either stock or water, and simmer it till all the goodness is out of the meat. Skim off all the fat, and strain the broth through a sieve. Have ready a large chicken (or a couple of rabbits), cut up. Put the chicken into the broth, make it hot gradually, and simmer for another hour. Season only with salt and blanched minced parsley. Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs well together, and add them to the soup off the fire just before serving. Be careful in stirring the eggs in to stir only one way. Giblet Soup.—The giblets of a bird are its liver, gizzard (or muscular part of the intestine), feet, neck, and head. The giblets of turkeys and chickens are much the best, as those of ducks and geese are apt to be strong-. The French name for giblets is properly Abatis, or, the remnants after the demolition, say, of a building. English dictionaries try to derive giblets from the French gibier, or game, but this must be a mistake. Thick Giblet Soup is excellent in winter, and the clear variety at other times, but in both the old-fashioned plan of serving pieces of the giblets in the soup should be avoided. A shillings- worth of giblets is enough to make thick soup for four people, reserving the livers for another dish such as liver-toast; if the livers are included, and another half-pint of stock added, there will be enough soup for six persons. Both Thick and Clear Giblet Soup are begun in the same way. Take the gall-bladder from the liver without breaking it, scald and skin the feet and the gizzard. Open the gizzard, empty it, and stew it by itself for an hour, as it takes much longer to get tender than the rest of the giblets. Chop the beak of the bird from the head, and cut the head off the neck. The feathers come off easily if the head and neck are scalded. Thoroughly wash the giblets in two or three waters. Cut them up small, and put them with an ounce of butter into a stewpan with an onion shredded finely, and fry them a pale golden colour over a low fire. Add a glass of Marsala (Giblet Soup is one of the few soups for which wine is now recommended), and a gill of beef broth, reduce to a glaze. Have ready three pints, or three pints and E5° SOUPS a half, of good stock from the pot-au-feu (see p. 31), and pour it in. Put in a muslin bag with a dessertspoonful of sweet herbs, a shallot, and a dozen peppercorns. Add a little salt if necessary. Simmer for two hours. When satisfied that you have extracted all the flavour of the giblets, stop, strain the soup into a bowl, let it get cold, and skim oft' all grease. Xow, if Clear Giblet Soup is wanted, clarify as usual with beef, strain off carefully, heat up when required, and serve as hot as possible, garnished with very finely shred vegetables separately cooked. If Thick Giblet Soup is required take a pint and a half of the broth, thicken it with three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, bring to the boil, skim, and pass all through the hair sieve. Warm up, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and serve. Additional flavour is given to Thick Giblet Soup by frying three ounces of lean bacon, cut up small, with the giblets, and also by adding, when the muslin bag of herbs is put in, six ounces each of turnips, onions, carrots, and leeks. In this case you must simmer the broth for three hours and a half instead of two hours. Excellent and most nourish- ing soup can be made by following this recipe, which is adapted from Wyvern. Kidney Soup.—This winter soup is much liked by gentle- men, and, once more, Wyvern’s method is the best. It should always be remembered that in whatever way kidneys are to be cooked they must be washed, dried, split in halves, skinned, plunged immediately into fast boiling water, for one minute only, and then gently dried in a napkin. In this way the dis- agreeable taste which kidneys are apt to have is entirely got rid of. For Kidney Soup take a pint and a half of good stock, and two sheep’s kidneys blanched as above. Simmer them gently in half a pint of stock, with a bag containing a dessert- spoonful of dried thyme, marjoram, and bay leaf, till they are very tender. Take the kidneys out, mince and pound them in the mortar, with one well-drained and washed fillet of anchovy. When sufficiently pounded pass the paste through a wire sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, etc., then pound again and pass all through a hair sieve. When ready, place the stock in a bowl handy, straining into it the broth in which the kidneys were stewed, and keep the kidney paste ready in a soup-plate. Take5i KIDNEY SOUP a quart saucepan, melt half an ounce of butter at the bottom of it over the fire, and stir in half an ounce of flour. When it is nice and creamy add a cupful of the stock, stirring vigorously, and continue to add stock and kidney paste by degrees, working them well together, till you have used them up. Now let the puree come to the boil, skim, and add a tablespoonful of claret, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, half a teaspoonful of French vinegar, and sufficient Parisian essence to give the soup a warm bi’own colour. Stir it well for a minute over the fire, and serve with croutons of fried bread. This kidney puree is one of the best ways of using kidneys. Of course it is only suitable as a winter or early spi'ing soup. Thick Soup from Sunday’s Sirloin Bone.—(Family Recipe.)—Cut off the red part of four or five carrots (leav- ing out the hard core inside each), slice six onions and two sticks of celery, and add a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Put the vegetables into a stewpan and cover them with water, but be careful not to drown them. Break your cooked sirloin bone into several pieces, and add it to the vegetables. If possible, put in two ounces of lean ham or knuckle of bacon, cut into little bits. Let the soup simmer from two hours to two hours and a half. Then strain it through a tamis-cloth, and return it to the stewpan to warm up, adding one lump of sugar and one tea- spoonful of salt, but no pepper. Before taking it off the fire the addition of a dessertspoonful of cream is a great im- provement. Scotch Mutton Broth.—Soak a neck of mutton in cold water for one hour. Cut off the scrag end and put it into a stewpan with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim well, and then let it just simmer for an hour and a half. Trim the fat from as many cutlets on the best end of the neck as you require and add them to the broth. Skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and continue to skim every quarter of an hour. When the fresh meat has been once skimmed add four tablespoonfuls of well-washed pearl barley, 5 carrots, 5 turnips, 3 heads of celery, and 3 onions. The vegetables should be sliced, but not cut too small. The broth should stew altogether for three hours and twenty minutes.52 SOUPS Another Mutton Broth.—Boil 21 lbs. scrag in two pints of water with, three or four tablespoonfuls well-washed pearl barley for four hours, as slowly as possible. Strain and remove all fat. Add 3 lean chops, 3 turnips, 3 carrots, 3 onions. Cut the vegetables very small. Boil till tender. When nearly done add some well-drained and blanched greens, boil 10 minutes more, add salt, and serve. The vegetables should look quite thick in the broth. Hotch Potch.—Cut a breast of mutton or the scrag end of a neck into small square pieces, and put on to boil in two quarts of water. When it boils skim well, and add vegetables, salt and pepper. You can use almost any kind of vegetables, and variety is a great improvement. Begin with 6 carrots sliced, 6 turnips cut in dice, 7 young or 3 old onions, 3 heads of celery, a cauliflower cut into shreds, and a quart of oldish peas shelled. Now let all simmer for eight hours over a very slow fire. You cannot cook Hotch Potch too slowly, for it requires so much time to extract the juices and goodness of the meat. One hour before serving add a pound of mutton cutlets from the best end of the neck. You should have them ready cut and free from fat. Some people like the original pieces of mutton taken out when the cutlets are put in. Loin chops can be used if more convenient. Half an hour before serving add a pint of young peas. Pick out the bones before serving. If any of the Hotch Potch is left pass it next day through the tamis-cloth, and serve as thick soup. Beast’s Head. Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Remove the brains from half a beast’s head, and put the head into five quarts of water with a stick of celery, three carrots and four onions sliced, three turnips cut up, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of sweet marjoram, and a teaspoonful or more of peppercorns. Let all stew till the meat is quite tender, and the soup is reduced to four quarts. Let it get cold. Now cut the cheek part into very small bits, like dice, add a little salt, and boil up the soup. Serve with forcemeat balls in the soup. Either the brains from the beast’s head, or their equal weight in raw veal, can be used for the balls. If veal is usedBEAST’S HEAD SOUP S3 it must be well pounded in a mortar. Add from two to four ounces of stale breadcrumbs, two tablespoonfuls of stock, a little finely minced lemon peel, a dessertspoonful of finely minced thyme, and the same of parsley. Season with pepper and salt. A teaspoonful of essence of anchovy may be added. Mix all up with an egg, and fry a nice brown. If the thyme and parsley are dried and not green, a tablespoonful of each will be required. Of course the brains can be boiled in the soup if liked. Coek-a-Leekie.—Put four pounds of leg of beef and one old fowl into a gallon of cold water. As soon as it boils throw in four dozen leeks. The leeks must be sliced, and plenty of the green part left on. Add a teaspoonful of pepper and a salt- spoonful of salt. Let all boil together for four hours. Then put in half a pound of prunes, and let it boil for another hour. Now take out the meat and the fowl, cut off the breast and wings of the fowl and add this to the soup. Leave the prunes in the soup. The beef and the carcase of the fowl will come in for stock. Of course the number of leeks can be reduced, but the above is the allowance in Scotland for the amount of beef and fowl. Leek Soup.—Chop np six leeks rather small, using both the green and the white part. Boil them in broth for one hour. Thicken the soup with half an ounce of oatmeal rubbed into half an ounce of flour as a Roux. Boil up, strain, and serve at once. If pea-shells, double in weight to the amount of leeks can be used; they are a great addition, and should be boiled with the leeks. Onion Soup.—Onion Soup is considered to be most whole- some, and is often liked in winter. Foreigners think most highly of Onion Soup. Rossini, the musician, said that the man who did not like it when served with grated cheese was a phenomenon as yet unknown; and in France it is called Soupe a VIvrogne, or the Drunkard’s Soup, because it is as stimu- lating as wine or spirits. To make Onion Soup, take six mild Spanish or Portugal Onions, blanch them in boiling water, peel off three or four coats, and slice them from top to bottom. Fry them in two ounces of butter (three ounces may be needed), but do not let them brown. Simmer the Onions in a quart of broth54 SOUPS or second stock. When they are soft add a little pepper and salt, rub then through a hair sieve, put the Puree of Onion back into the broth, let it boil up and add by degrees a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. This soup will take an hour and a half to prepare. Soak some small oblongs of bread in the stock, crisp them on a buttered tin in the oven; either lay one in each soup-plate and helj) the soup upon them, or hand them dry. Haricot Bean Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—If the cook has time to prepare the Beans they need not be soaked. Put one pint of Beans just as they are into three pints of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt. Bring to the boil, simmer for half an hour, stop the boil by pouring in a coffeecupful of cold water. Repeat this every half hour again and again till the Beans are tender. Beans vary much in cooking, and the shop- man never knows if they are one year or six years old. Some Beans are cooked in half the time that others will require. But for soup the above method is far better than soaking them. As soon as the Beans are quite tender add a pint or more of white stock. Let the Beans boil in it till they are quite a pulp. Pass them through a hair sieve. Add a little more stock, and let it boil till a scum rises to the top. Just before serving add half a gill of cream. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Haricot Soup with Fresh Vegetables.—Prepare the Beans as above. When tender add a quart of boiling water, an onion sliced, two turnips and three potatoes cut up, an ounce of butter, and a good sprinkling of pepper and salt. Boil slowly till all the vegetables are tender. Add moi'e boiling water if the soup is too thick. Split-Pea Soup for Winter.—Take a pint of split peas and prepare them exactly as is recommended for Haricot Bean Soup. Split peas suffer from soaking more than haricots. Boil with them one three-ounce onion, a sliced carrot, a turnip, and a potato cut up, a head of celery sliced, and six pepper- corns. If possible add a bacon or ham bone. Try when the peas are done by pressing one between your finger and thumb. When they are quite soft, drain them from the broth (which must be kept hot). Pass the peas and other vegetables through55 SPLIT PEA SOUP FOR WINTER a "wire sieve, catching the puree in a soup-plate as you do so. Melt half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour at the bottom of a stewpan, mix them over the fire till quite smooth. Then gradually add the puree and the broth together until the soup is of the right thickness. Just before serving, and off the fire, add a little cream, or the raw yolk of one egg, or the yolk of an egg beaten up in warm milk. Fried sippets of bread and powdered dried mint should be handed, also fried minced lean bacon. The fresh vegetables may be omitted except the onion. A saltspoonful of celery seed does as well as the head of celery. Dried lentil soup can be cooked in the same way, using only the onion. Tongue Root Soup.'—(Family Recipe.)—Clean the tongue roots very well, put them into a deep pan with all sorts of soup herbs, and leave it till all the gravy is drawn out. Then fill the pan with boiling broth, or, if that cannot be, with boiling water. Season the soup with pepper and salt. Then take out any nice pieces, cut them small, and when the soup is strained add them to it. Boil up and serve. Soup for a Soup Kitchen.—This soup has been much approved of, so the recipe may be of use. Take three ox-cheeks, and three sheeps’ heads, and put them to soak in cold water all night. In the morning wash them thoroughly, and put them into the copper with fifteen gallons of water. Add two pounds of pearl barley, six carrots, six leeks or onions, four heads of celery, and a couple of turnips, if they are not old. Cut all the vegetables into inch pieces. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Bring to a gentle boil, and then let the soup simmer for seven hours. About half an hour before serving out put into the soup four quartern loaves that have been cut into pieces about an inch and a half square. (It is a mistake to soak the meat in cold water all night. It should be put on in cold water, slowly brought from cold to cool, cool to warm, warm to hot, and the vegetables added when the soup comes to the boil.) Soup for the Poor.—(Family Recipe.)—To each pound of neck of beef allow a quarter of a pound of rice, the same quantity of dried split peas, three onions, three carrots, any sort ofSOUPS 56 herbs, seasoning of salt and pepper, and one loaf of bread. Wash the rice and the peas, wash and cut up the vegetables, and cut the loaf up small. Stew for at least five hours in eight quarts of water. Strong1 Broth.—(Family Recipe.)—Put three pounds of gravy beef and one calf’s foot into three quarts of water. Just let it boil up so as to skim it clean. When skimmed add one onion, one carrot, and one young turnip, also three spoonfuls of washed rice or pearl barley. Put in also a very little browning of sugar and water, which makes the taste softer and rather darkens the colour. Now let the broth simmer for five hours. Before it is done the calf’s foot becomes quite a pulp, almost like hasty pudding. When the simmering is done, the meat, bones, and vegetables are taken out with a spoon, but the rice or barley is left in. The strength of the broth is judged of wdien cold; if right it will be quite a jelly. Heat up enough for a broth basin as wanted, and do not add salt till then. PUREES. Purees are among the best of soups, as they are among the easiest to make. But, as with most things, time and patience are needed if a satisfactory result is to be obtained. Tough game and old poultry can be made into excellent Purees. Shell-fish make a better Puree than other fish. A good broth is essential to a Puree. This, in the case of game and poultry, must be made from the crushed bones, giblets, and scraps of the birds. Por vegetable Purees vegetable stock, or second stock, must be used, and for Purees of fish the broth must be made of the trimmings and bones of fish. All Purees must have a liaison—that is, a thickening or binding together of the materials used. If this is omitted the Puree will look like a wretchedly thin soup with all the pulp soddening at the bottom of the tureen, because the stock aud the pulp have never been incorporated with each other. French cooks use cream, eggs, and milk as a liaison for Purees,57 PUREES but in the more wholesome English cookery the simple Roux already given is best. Or half an ounce of rice or tapioca can be boiled with the broth. If Roux is used the broth must be added to it, as in the case of thickened soups, and the broth must be constantly stirred till it comes to the boil. Game and poultry should be boned, passed through the mincing machine, then pounded in a mortar, a little broth or butter being used to lubricate them. After that the pulp must be rubbed through a wire sieve, and finally through a hair sieve. In using sieves they should be held slanting over a large basin, and the pulp rubbed through with a wooden spoon, reversing the sieve now and then and removing any pieces which adhere to the bottom with a second spoon. Many cooks hold the sieve over far too small a basin. Hair sieves must be gently treated, for, if the cook works the Puree hurriedly and roughly through, the hair will very soon part from the wooden framework. But for boned birds and for vegetables the tamis-cloth is far quicker and better than a sieve. For this two persons are needed. Each must twist up a comer of the tamis-cloth firmly in her left hand, and hold in her right a long-handled square wooden spoon. The spoons are worked together, to and fro, and the Puree pressed through the tamis-cloth into a basin below. The tamis-cloth hangs like a little hammock, firmly held at each end. When the Puree has been smoothly rubbed through add to it sufficient broth to make it rather thinner than the soup is intended eventually to be, stir constantly till it comes to the boil, and, if necessary, skim it. The Croutons to be handed with Purees are dice-shaped pieces of bread which have been well soaked in the proper broth for the Puree and then crisped on a buttered tin in the oven. They are far more palatable when treated thus than when merely fried in butter. Wyvern’s Vegetable Stock, already given, made without meat, is excellent, and most nourishing as a Puree. Purees, as I have just said, are not only Soups. But all Purees, whether Soups, or vegetables arranged in the middle of a dish of cutlets, or vegetables made into a thick sauce, are58 PUREES cooked in tlie same way. Quenelles, and such entrees as Creme de Volatile, are Purees in another form. Wine is generally recommended for game Purees. It is not necessary, and is indeed disliked by many people. If it is used, a small quantity, from one to two tablespoonfuls, will be sufficient, and good Marsala is quite the best wine to select. In many Purees of game it is a great improvement to add a tablespoonful of red currant jelly and a teaspoonful of lemon juice to the soup just before it comes to the boil and whilst it is being thoroughly stirred. VEGETABLE PUREES. Vegetable Purees ought not to be the tasteless gruel so often sent up. The cook must have plenty of time in which to prepare them. I have chosen recipes for several kinds of Vegetable Purees, and if the directions are carefully followed excellent results cannot fail to be obtained. Croutons of crisped bread should always be handed with Purees. Puree of Green Peas.—Shell enough peas, not old ones, to fill a pint measure to the brim. Slice up the pods, wash them and put them into a stewpan with one average sized lettuce shredded, four ounces of onion, a bunch of herbs, a good bunch of parsley, and seasoning. Cover with fresh milk, boil up slowly, and then simmer until the pods are soft. Drain off the eau de euisson, pick out the bouquet of herbs and the parsley, and press as much as you can of the rest through a hair-sieve, saving- the pulp. Now put the shelled peas into another stew- pan, pour the euisson over them, boil, and when the peas are soft drain them. Pass them also through the sieve, and add the Puree thus obtained to that got from the pods. Blend the Puree and the euisson by working them into a Roux of half an ounce of butter mixed into half an ounce of flour. Or make a liaison as on p. 45. A good colour is secured by boiling a handful of fresh spinach-leaves with the peas, and passing them with the peas through the sieve. [Wyvem.] Puree of Jerusalem Artichokes.—Having washed, peeled and boiled one pound of Jerusalem Artichokes, pass them through the sieve ; save the pulp so obtained, measuring a pintPUREE OF JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 59 of common stock for tlie Puree. Melt half an ounce of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, mix into it three-quarters of an ounce of flour, and then add by degrees the artichoke pulp and the stock. Boil up and pass again through the sieve. Put the pan back on the fire, and when it boils serve. It may be made richer, if wished, by a tablespoonful of cream stirred in, off the fire, at the very last moment. Or boil four ounces of onion, an ounce of parsley, and a bunch of sweet herbs, in a pint of milk. When thoroughly flavoured, strain the milk, add the artichoke pulp to it, and boil up. If liked, add, off the fire, at the last moment, either the yolk of an egg stirred into two tablespoonfuls of fresh milk or a tablespoonful of cream. [Wyvem.] Puree of Carrots and Tapioca, or Velvet Soup.— Prepare a pint and a half of good white broth with sixpenny- worth of chicken giblets, half a pound of lean veal stock meat, and the usual vegetables. Cut eight ounces of the red part only from the carrots, using the light-coloured part in making the broth. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter with the slices of red carrot, two ounces of the white part of a leek or the same weight of onion, and a saltspoonful of salt. Fry for five minutes, then moisten with half a pint of the broth ; bring to the boil, and simmer till the carrot pieces are done ; then pass the whole through a hair-sieve. Set this Puree aside. Now put the remaining pint of broth on to boil, and when boiling stir in half an ounce of tapioca, which should be crashed beforehand into evenly-granulated particles about the size of a pin’s head. Stir the tapioca into the broth for five minutes ; theu cover the pan, and simmer for twenty minutes, gently skimming every now and then. To finish, put the Carrot Puree into a fresh stewpan, set this on the fire, and gradually stir into it the broth with the tapioca. Bring to the desired degree of heat and serve. [Wyvem.] This soup is infinitely superior to the usual Puree of Carrots. Puree of Pearl Barley, or Creme d’Orge.—Boil and simmer five ounces of pearl barley in a quart of water and half an ounce of butter till it is quite soft. Then drain, pass it through a hair-sieve, put it into a stewpan, and add by degrees three pints of uncoloured stock. Bring the Puree to6o VEGETABLE PUREES the consistency of thin cream ; let it come to the boil once, then simmer for fifteen minutes. Skim, stirring into it off the fire the yolk of an egg, thoroughly freed from the white, and beaten up with a gill of hot milk and an ounce of butter. Garnish if possible with four tablespoonfuls of cooked green peas. Serve with croutons soaked in the stock and then crisped in the oven. [ Wyvern.] Puree of Tapioca can be made in the same way, using from three to four ounces of tapioca. Groult’s French preparations of tapioca, pea-flour, pearl barley, sago, potato-flour, and chestnut-flour, can always be got at any first-rate shop. They make excellent Purees with the addition of eau de cuisson, second stock, or common stock made from scraps and trimmings. Celery Soup.—(American Recipe.)—Take the white part of two large heads of celery, and grate it. If you cannot grate it, chop it very fine. Set it to boil in a quart of milk, and throw in from three to four ounces of rice. Let the celery and rice slowly stew till they can be rubbed through a coarse sieve. Add more milk if they get two thick. Then add an equal quantity of good chicken or veal broth, with white pepper and salt to taste. Be careful not to use too much pepper and salt. Potag’e Paysanne.—Cut one large onion into dice, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and fry a nice golden colour. Then take a half-inch-thick slice of bread, toasted to the same colour; break it into small pieces, and put them into the stewpan with a pint of good stock. Simmer gently for thirty-five minutes, then serve. Quantity for four persons. [Mrs. C. W. Earle.'] FISH SOUPS. Sir Henry Thompson’s Fish Soup.—Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan; add two carrots sliced, one onion and a shallot in thin slices, three cloves, a little thyme, and some parsley. Fry them gently till of a reddish tint, then add three pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming occasionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones and all, cut up into pieces,+■ SIR HENRY THOMPSON’S FISH SOUP 61 and the head and bones of two whitings, reserving the fillets. (A cod’s head, or that of a turbot, or the fresh bones, head, and fins of two large soles, the fillets of which are required for another dish, may take the place of the foregoing.) Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for two hours gently at the corner of the fire; take out the bones and pass all the rest through a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into two or three small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green parsley and chervil chopped, not too finely, and serve all together in a tureen. [Food and Feeding.'] Sir Henry Thompson wisely considers that Eish Soups do not require clarifying. Captain Marryat’s Fish Soup.—(Recipe given by him to the Countess of Blessington, February, 1833) :— Split a cod’s head, and put it, with two haddocks, into a kettle containing two quarts of cold water, and an onion chopped fine. When it has boiled a quarter of an hour, take out all the fish, cut off the heads, trim and fillet the haddocks, pick out the best part of the cod’s head, such as under-jaw, tongue, etc., and lay them aside. Put back into the kettle the remains of the cod’s head and trimmings of the haddocks, and let them boil until the liquor is reduced to a pint and a half, and then strain off. Thicken the soup with the yolks of two eggs well beaten up. Add some chopped parsley and a little salt. Then put in the fillets of haddocks (each cut into four pieces), with the portions of the cod’s head. Boil till sufficiently done, and you will have not only a capital soup but a very good bargain. “Baars,” the Dutch Water Souehy.—The much-vaunted Bouillabaisse of Southern France with its “ hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes,” its garlic, oil, capsicums, wine, spices, and saffron, is not always suited to English palates when at home. But the Dutch Baars, cooked in the same way but omitting the rich seasoning, is excellent. The English name of this dish. Water Souehy, is misleading, and the weak broth served under that name is distasteful. Baars can be made of any small fish ; those too small to cook in other ways answer perfectly. And it can be made of either sea or fresh water fish. For a Baars of sea fish use the small soles called slips, and whitings, orFISH SOUPS 62 flounders. A fresli water Boars can be made of small trout or gudgeons. Eels and perch can also be used. Wyvern's recipe is: Fillet tbe fisli neatly in small fillets; set these aside, and put the whole of the remnants, heads, skin, bones, fins, and trimmings, into a stewpan, adding for each pound weight of such stock-stuff four ounces of onion sliced thinly, a handful of curled parsley shredded, a dessertspoonful of horseradish shavings (a tablespoonful of parsley roots about an inch long), twelve peppercorns, a good teaspoonful of salt (a pinch of mace or mixed spice) ; cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, skim, then simmer for half an hour, and strain. Into this hot broth, using another stewpan for the purpose, put the fillets of fish, with six freshly-cut pieces of parsley blanched for three minutes in scalding water, and cook gently for about ten minutes until the fillets are tender. Now empty the contents of the pan into a deep dish (for the Boars is both soup and fish), and serve with thin brown bread and butter. Boars is eaten -with a fork and spoon, and served in soup-plates. What is wanted in a Boars is a strong fish broth, quite apart from the little fillets afterwards served in it. Probably the horseradish will be found sufficient without the parsley roots, and the spice may be omitted if not liked. If the fish broth is not strong enough the head of a cod will greatly improve it.* Shrimp Puree.—I have chosen this recipe as a model of fisli Purees. Make two pints of uncoloured broth from a shillingsworth of chicken giblets, or from veal and veal bones. Clear this of fat, and partly thicken it with half an ounce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour. Set it aside. Pick a pint measure of shrimps, saving the shells but not the heads. After washing the shells empty them into a stewpan, pour the partly thickened broth ovei' them, bring this to the boil, and simmer for 25 minutes. Skim, and strain into a bowl. Divide the picked shrimps into three portions, reserve one of them for garnish, and take the other two for the Puree, O 7 * It is a mistake to suppose that the Dutch word Zootje has anything to do with fish or cooking. Zootje merely means a little thing.SHRIMP PUREE 63 pounding them to a paste with the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, and half an ounce of butter. Pass this through a hair-sieve. Now to blend—put two ounces of white breadcrumbs that have been well dried in the oven into a clean stewpan, set this on a low fire and gradually stir in with them the cooled broth, adding the shrimp Puree as you do so; bring to the boil, skimming off any scum that may rise, then cool, and pass all through the sieve into another stewpan, stir in the shrimps that were reserved for garnish and heat up. To finish the soup, add, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs that have been well mixed with a coffeecupful of the soup. Stir well, and serve. Croutons of crisped bread must be handed. [ Wyvern.'] This quantity is enough for six people. The soup will be rich enough for most digestions, but it can be made richer by beating up the two eggs in a good tablespoonful of cream, or an ounce of butter. Oyster Soup for a Party of Four.—With two penny- worth of fish cuttings make a quart of good broth, assisting it as usual with vegetables and herbs. Take a dozen sauce oysters, put them with their beards intact into a saucepan, strain their own liquid over them through muslin, for it often contains some atoms of shell. If this is insufficient to cover the oysters add as much broth cold as will suffice for that purpose. Put the pan over a low fire, and heat up gradually; the moment signs of boiling show themselves stop. Strain off the liquid from the oysters, add it to the rest of the fish broth and thicken it, using three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour to three pints of broth. Trim the beards off the oysters, and divide each one in halves. Boil up the soup, skim it, and strain it into a bowl. Warm it up again, and finish with the yolk of an egg beaten up in a coffeecupful of the soup, adding all the oysters. This simple and excellent recipe of Wyvern s is far less rich and far more wholesome than those generally given. The quantities can be easily increased for a larger number of persons. Cream is out of place in oyster soup ; it is quite rich enough without. Cockle Soup may be made the same way, also Mussel Soup if the Mussels are carefully prepared as on p. 111.64 FISH SOUPS Lady Bruce’s Fish Soup.—Take two or three trout, clean and well wipe them, cut them in pieces, put them in a stewpan over a slow fire with half a pint of white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let them simmer for half an hour. Take off the pan and take the fish out. Add good strong fish stock, and thicken the soup a little. When done put the fish back into the soup, and serve it very hot. Pike can be done the same way. GARNISHES FOR CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS. It is most important to recollect that whatever the Garnish may be it must be cooked, and that it must on no account be cooked in the soup which it is to garnish. If this rule is neglected the garnish will either he raw, or the soup will become cloudy, however bright and clear it may have been before. The French Vegetable Cutters are indispensable, as they stamp out all sorts of little shapes for garnishes, and the English Pea Cutter, which scoops tiny balls out of vegetables, is also most useful. The names of many soups are given to them by the shape or material of the garnish used. For Julienne Soup cut carrot, turnip and celery into little strips, the thickness of a wooden match, and one inch in length. To do this, cut the carrots across, slanting, in the thickest part, and about two-thirds of an inch thick. Shape these pieces into thin even ribbons by turning the slice round and round till you reach the centre of the carrot, which is not used; then cut these ribbons again into very fine strips. Cut the turnips and celery into squares, and divide these into smaller squares two-thirds of an inch thick ; then form the strips. In Brunoise Soup the same vegetables are used, only cut into dice or little squares less than a quarter of an inch across. For both these soups two ounces of the red part of the carrot will be wanted, the same of turnip, and half an ounce of celery. The soup is already sufficiently flavoured with onion. Toss the vegetables lightly in two ounces of butterGARNISHES FOR CONSOMMES & CLEAR SOUPS 65 over a brisk fire for five minutes. When they are just coloured cover them with a pint of broth from the stock-pot, and let them just simmer for an hour and a half. French cooks add a little finely-shredded lettuce, and either chervil or sorrel minced fine, during the last half-hour. Skim off every particle of fat, and keep the vegetables hot in the bain- marie. When wanted add the vegetables to the soup, boil up again and skim. In winter the French preserved Julienne is useful. Allow one ounce to a quart of soup, simmer it in broth for three-quarters of an hour, or until the vegetables swell. Then skim, and pour the broth through a strainer into the soup. Macaroni makes one of the simplest garnishes, and the round pipe macaroni is much better than the alphabets and fancy shapes called Italian paste. Blanch two ounces of macaroni in boiling water, cool it, drain and simmer in broth for fifteen minutes. Drain again, cut the macaroni into thin rings with a sharp knife, lay it at the bottom of a hot tureen, and pour the soup boiling hot upon it. Clear Soup a la Boyale is garnished with pieces of custard. For a party of eight mix the yolks of four eggs into a gill of broth, adding a tiny pinch of salt. Strain the custard and pour it into well-buttered dariole or any small moulds. Set these in a pan with hot water one-third of the height of the moulds. Cover the pan and steam the custards till firmly set. Let them get cold, turn the custards out on a plate and cut them into dice-shapes or rounds with one of the vegetable cutters. Add them to the soup at the last moment. These custards should never be made with milk. Very small Quenelles are often used as a garnish for clear game or other soups. They are, however, troublesome, and take a long time, as to ensure lightness they need a great deal of pounding. They must be made of the same material as the stock—that is, poultry or veal, game or fish. When Peas are in season an excellent custard for Clear Soup is made by mixing one gill of Green Pea Puree with two beaten eggs and a tablespoonful of cream. Pour it into a well- buttered shallow mould and steam it till set. When cold cut it into dice or other shapes for garnish. F66 GARNISHES FOR CONSOMMES & CLEAR SOUPS Wyvern’s Boules de Neige garnish is excellent, pretty, and uncommon. Cut as many tiny round balls as possible out of a root of celeriac and a seven-ounce turnip—an equal number of each. Simmer them in melted butter, drain and cook them gently till tender, being careful not to overdo them. Do the turnip balls first, as they will take longer than the celeriac, drain, and set them aside. Add this garnish at the last moment before serving the clear soup.67 CHAPTER III. FISH. In buying Fish one important matter is to see that you get all that yon have paid for, and that you have not unwittingly made the fishmonger a present of half your purchase. Sir Henry Thompson was the first to point out that the “ cuttings ” left with the fishmonger after he has cleaned and trimmed the Fish amount to half its weight. Thus, in buying a sole at eighteen- pence a pound, if you let the fishmonger keep its skeleton, -with its head, tail, fins, liver, and skin, you have really paid at the rate of three shillings a pound for the portion which you get. These “ cuttings ” are most useful as stock, either for fish-broth or as the foundation of fish-sauces, and they contain some of the most nutritive parts of the Fish. Poor people are well aware of this, and flock to the fishmongers’ shops when the “ cuttings ” are sold in the evening. A cook ought to be able to clean, trim •and fillet Fish ; if she is not, the fishmonger should be desired to send home all the “ cuttings ” with the Fish. One word as to choosing Fish. If it is really fresh the eyes will be quite bright, and the gills a clear red. The eyes of a Fish show want of freshness sooner than any other symptom, and no art can restore their brilliancy ; therefore never buy Fish from which the Fishmonger has removed the eyes. They should, however, always be removed at home, for cooked eyes have a revolting appearance. Never buy a Fish with sunken eyes. Herrings, if they have been long out of the water, become suffused with blood about the eyes, and the whole face F 2FISH 6S looks reel. Whitings ought to have a pinkish-fawn-coloured skin, changing to pearly-white underneath; if the skin looks dull and yellow, have nothing to do with them. The spots on a fresh Plaice are bright reddish-orange ; if they are of a dull yellow colour the Fish is beginning to get stale. In buying a flat Fish always look at the grey side. This side, which first shows want of freshness, is often placed underneath by the fishmonger. The skin ought to look tight and smooth ; if it is flabby and wrinkled, reject the Fish. In Salmon and Trout the flesh should be bright yellowish-pink, and the scales silvery. But, as a general rule, the colours in all really fresh Fish are beautifully bright and clear. In choosing a “cut” of Fish, such as salmon, cod, or turbot, look closely at the grain of the flesh. This should be quite firm and close ; if it looks loose, or watery, or fibrous, do not buy the Fish. In selecting a boiled Lobster, tweak the tail sharply ; if it goes back with a spring the Lobster is fresh. Crabs feel heavy when quite fresh. On Cooking Fish.—Sir Henry Thompson does not approve of boiling Fish. He has found by experiment that the fish loses much of its nutritive matter in boiling. Sometimes this loss amounts to as much as thirty per cent., and when Sir Henry has evaporated the water in which the fish was boiled he has obtained from it in solid deposit no less than four per cent, of the original weight of the fish. This alone shows the wasteful- ness of throwing away the eau de cuisson in which fish has been boiled. If Fish, other than shell-fish, is boiled at all, it must be put into absolutely boiling water with plenty of salt, and the water must only just cover the fish. Rub the fish with a little lemon-juice, put it on the drainer of the fish-kettle, and let it boil hard for from three to five minutes. Then reduce the heat, and let the fish simmer till done. It is impossible to go by the rule of ten minutes per pound for Fish, for some kinds of Fish are much thicker than others. Test the Fish now and then with the point of a skewer. When the flesh parts easily from the bone it is ready. Wyvern truly says that overboiled Fish is nasty to eat and ugly to look at, whilst underdone Fish is not fit for human food. Drain the fish the moment it is done, or it will be woolly, and be careful to drain off every drop of water. If you have no fish-kettle you can boil the fish in aFISH 69 stewpan by laying it on a piece of open-textured material large enough to hang over the sides of the pan, and kept in place by the lid. In this way you can lift the fish out when done with- out breaking it; it having been slung as in a hammock during the process of boiling. Most cooks allow an ounce of salt and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to every quart of water, as they consider that this makes the fish white and firm. But, as Sir Henry Thompson points out, Steaming Fish is far better than Boiling it, for in this way all its nutritive properties are preserved. If the cook has not a proper steamer the fish, if small enough, can be laid between two plates on the top of a saucepan of boiling water; or, if larger, it can be set in a well-buttered baking-dish in a moderate oven with another baking-dish above it. These methods, however, are but make- shifts, and as steamers are not only inexpensive but almost a necessary part of the furniture of the kitchen, it is far better to have one. The cook must be careful that the water under the steamer is kept at a steady boil, even at a hard boil. If this is not done, whatever is cooked in the vessel above will not receive sufficient force of steam, and the result will be a tasteless and sodden mess. Steamers can be bought of various sizes, so as to fit the saucepans in use. Wyverns method of Poaching Fish is also excellent. For this he advises the choice of a haddock, gurnard, or sea- bream, the fish to be sent home without being trimmed. Then carefully take the flesh off the bones on each side of the fish in two large fillets, to be afterwards divided into four. Set these aside. Put all the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with four ounces of onion, two ounces each of carrot and turnip, and one ounce of celery if in season, all sliced; a good bunch of parsley, a sprig of marjoram or thyme, a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, and two of salt. Cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil; then lower the fire and simmer for half an hour, or until the vegetables are cooked. Strain off the broth, and pour it into a shallow pan with upright sides. Set it on the fire, when it boils put in the fillets of fish; they will check the boiling, but when it comes on again lower the heat and let the fish simmer till done. Take out the fillets with a slice, arrange them on a well-buttered fire-proof dish, and coverFISH 7° tliem up while you thicken the broth. Pour it over the fillets, and shake over them a slight layer of finely-grated cheese. Slip the dish into the oven, and let the surface take a light golden colour. Set the dish on a napkin in a larger dish. It is an excellent French fashion to surround such dishes of fish with a chain of steamed potatoes, shaped like plovers’ eggs. Boiled potatoes crumble. Other flavours, such as shrimp, anchovy, etc., can be used instead of cheese. In this way the whole value of the fish is secured, without any water, and w'ith an excellent sauce of its own. Fish, whether whole, in slices, or in fillets is excellent when baked. For this use a fire-proof dish, and see that it is well buttered. Minced mushrooms can be added to the fish, but finely-minced parsley and herbs are quite sufficient. Shrimps make an excellent garnish. Pack your dish neatly, and then pour gently round the fish a broth made of the “ cuttings.” This broth should not come quite up to the level of the top of the fish in the baking-dish. The oven should be moderate. No better way than Broiling has been discovered for Fish, either whole when it is small like a trout or mackerel, or sliced or filleted. The bars of the gridiron must be thoroughly well oiled, or the fish will burn. As an example I give Wyvern’s recipe for broiled salmon. Cut a piece of salmon into three slices half an inch thick. Divide each into two pieces accord- ing to the naturally marked divisions of the salmon. Remove the skin, and let the prepared slices soak all night (when the Fish is wanted for breakfast), in this marinade or pickle; four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of red wine vinegar, a dessert- spoonful of chopped chives (if liked), a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a sprinkling of spiced salt. In the morning lift the slices from the marinade, wipe them, and wrap them in well-buttered papers, twisting the ends to secure them firmly. Lay the slices on the well-oiled gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them frequently. They will take about twelve minutes to cook. If the slices are three-quarters of an inch thick, and not -wrapped in paper, they must be buttered before they are put on the gridiron, and they will take five minutes longer to cook. It is to Sir Henry Thompson that we owe the valuable ideaFISH 7i of Roasting Fish in the Dutch oven. For this, the Fish must be placed in a well-buttered fire-proof dish large enough to hold it, and a little deeper than the Fish, so as to retain all the juices which by exposure to the heat will flow out. The Fish is whole, having only been cleaned. Pour a little melted butter over the Fish, or butter the Fish lightly and add a morsel or two of butter round it. Put the dish in the Dutch oven before a clear fire. In this way, as Sir Henry Thompson points out, the Fish is cooked entirely in its own nutritive juices, and it receives “ that appetising flavour which is known as ‘ tasting of the fire.’ ” Great care must be taken to prevent the Fish from burning, and it must be constantly basted either with its own juices or with fish broth. Serve in the dish the Fish has been cooked in. A block-tin dish may be used, but it is not nearly so nice as fire-proof china. For Frying Fish see special directions as to Frying. What- ever the frying medium may be, it must imperatively be used for Fish alone. SEA FISH. French cooks make a mistake in practising elaborate cookery on the Sea Fish caught on British coasts. In France, at a distance from the sea, it is no doubt necessary to make use of all sorts of adjuncts, from truffles to mussels, and from wine to spice, in cooking Fish. But when, as in England, a supply of the best fish in the world can be obtained only a few hours after they have left the water the plainest and simplest methods of cooking will be found the most satisfactory. Our British Fish, with a few exceptions, are not beautiful in colour, but even Lady Brassey, when fresh from the gorgeous fish of Bermuda and the Tropics, was obliged to admit that “ the grey uninteresting mass ” bought from the first fishing-boats she met in the English Channel was much better to eat than the lovely Angels, Rock-fish, and Groupers she had lately been admiring. The Sea Fish generally eaten in England may be divided into two classes—flat fish and fish which swim back upwards. To the first of these classes seven kinds' of fish belong. O72 SEA FISH Turbot.—Turbot is one of the best of fish, if not quite the best, and is never so good as when quite plainly dressed, and served without the ridiculous patterns in lobster coral so often strewn over it by cooks. Turbots may be had all the year round, but are considered to be at their best in May. Thev are often very large, but a Turbot weighing from five to ten pounds will be found the best. If a “ cut ” of Turbot and not a whole fish is ordered it should be taken from the middle of the back. Six pounds is the general allowance for a party of eight if sent in by the fishmonger, but half that quantity is quite enough. A “ cut ” of Turbot should never be boiled, or it will be woolly and tasteless ; it should be gently poached in fish- broth (see page 69). The fins of Turbot are considered a great delicacy. Turbots have no scales, but a series of bony excrescences on the back. Lobster Sauce or Dutch Sauce is served with Turbot. Brill.—Brill belongs to the same family as Turbot, but is a longer, narrower, and much smaller fish. A Brill has scales on both sides. Brill is always in season, and the best weigh about a pound. They can be boiled or steamed, but are much the best when filleted. Fillets of Brill au bleu.—Cut a fillet off each side of the Brill, and then make a good broth with the bones and trimmings, assisted by two ounces each of shredded onion and carrot, a bunch of parsley, a dessertspoonful of blended thyme and marjoram, a saltspoonful of salt, twelve peppercorns, and a joint and a half of water. Bring the broth to the boil once, simmer it for half an hour, strain it off into either an enamelled pan or a fire-proof earthenware pan (on no account use a tinned saucepan), set this on the fire, and as soon as boiling begins add the fillets. This will check the boiling ; as soon as it recommences modei'ate the fire to simmering, cover the pan, and add a large claretglassful of sound light claret. Let the fillets cook very slowly in the broth for about eighteen minutes. When done, drain them and place them in a very hot dish, carefully covered up. Strain the broth in which they were cooked, thicken it, stir in half an ounce of glaze, bring to the boil once, and pour over the fish through a pointed strainer. The claret gives the fish a bluish tint, “ au bleu." \_Wyvern.'\SOLES 73 Soles.—Soles are among tlie best, and tlie most expensive, of fish. They are to be had at all times, but lose much of their flavour in February, March, and April. Soles used to be found a foot or eighteen inches long, but owing to their wholesale destruction by trawlers it is now rare to find a Sole on our coasts more than twelve inches in length and eight ounces in weight. Soles like a sandy shore, and four out of the forty species of this fish are found on our coasts. These are Common Soles, Lemon Soles (coarser and yellow in colour), Variegated Soles (found on the South Coast), and Small Soles (which are only five inches long). “ Slips ” are young Soles. The skin of a boiled Sole is considered to be very nutritious and digestible. But it must be boiled in fish broth, not in water. Fried Sole.—The Sole must be well dried after it is cleaned, and a dredging of flour will complete the drying. Crumble some stale bread as small as you can in a napkin, set it in the oven to crisp but not to brown, pound the crumbs in a mortar, and pass them through a stiff wire-sieve. Put them on a plate in the oven to dry thoroughly. Beat up an egg with a teaspoonful of water and a teaspoonful of salad oil. Coat the Sole with this mixture of egg, laying it on with a brush like varnish, and then roll the Sole over and over in a napkin containing the dry crumbs. Let it rest and dry. When the Sole has become dry, crumb it a second time, using now pale yellowish-brown raspings of crust, sifted and pounded. Fry in plenty of really boiling oil or fat, or the Sole will be limp. It will take from ten to twelve minutes to fry. Drain it well. By following this method the Fried Sole will be found as different as possible from the flabby greasy object, covered with lumps of various sizes, which generally represents the “ Nice Fried Sole, Sir,” proffered as a matter of course by the hotel waiter. All fish to be egged and breadcrumbed should be prepared in this way. The best sauce for a Fried Sole is the real Dutch sauce, or beurre fondu, not to be confounded with melted butter or Hollandaise. For this, put two ounces of fresh butter into a small saucepan with half a saltspoonful of salt. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till the butter is half melted. Then take it off the fire, and let the butter sro on meltiner of o OSEA FISH 74 itself in the hot pan. Empty it into a very hot sauceboat, metal if possible, and add either a dessertspoonful of lemon juice or the same quantity of anchovy vinegar. Sole a la Colbert,—Skin the Sole, make an incision along the backbone on the under or dark side, from an inch of the head to within an inch of the tail. Slip a knife under the flesh on each side of the cut, and loosen it from the bones; snip the backbone with a pair of nippers in three or four places, so that it can be easily removed afterwards. Egg and breadcrumb twice as above, and fry with the cut side upper- most. The edges of the incision will curl outwards in the process of frying, and the opening thus made should be filled at the time of serving with an ounce of maitre d’hotel butter (p. 75), the Sole being sprinkled with fine salt. To do this while the Sole is being drained, after the frying, the backbone should be carefully removed, and the butter, ready melted, poured into the cavity. [ Wyvern.] Or fill the cavity with an ounce of green butter, and call the dish Soleau beurrevert. For green butter Wyvern s recipe is: Weigh a quarter of a pound of the best butter. Boil two good handfuls of spinach, drain thoroughly, squeeze through a piece of muslin, and save all the spinach greening so obtained in a bowl. Scald and cleanse four anchovies from oil, pick out their spines, pass them through a hair-sieve, and save the pulp. Mince as finely as possible sufficient blanched curled parsley to fill a tablespoon. Mince also as finely as possible, and pound, capers enough to fill a teaspoon. Now colour the butter by working into it, as lightly as you can, enough of the spinach greening to make it a pale green. Then add the other things by degrees, and incorporate them thoroughly with the butter. Trim the butter into neat shapes or pats with the butter bat on the butter board, and set on ice till wanted. N.B.—For all fancy butter’s it is best to have a separate small Wedgewood mortar, pestle, small hair-sieve, butter board and bat. Fillets of Sole. —These should be about three inches long, and an inch and a half wide. They can then be egged and breadcrumbed and fried, or dipped in batter D Orly and fried, or poached in broth, floured, and fried, or steamed and served cold with mayonnaise sauce.75 FILLETS OF SOLE WITH SHRIMPS Fillets of Sole with Shrimps.—Fillet a large Sole, and make a good broth with the bones and trimmings. Mince, not too finely, half a pint of picked shrimps, and season them with pepper and a very little salt. Lay the fillets on a board, brush their upper sides with white of egg, and spread over each a coating of the mince after having moistened it with a quarter of a pint of white sauce made with the fish broth and thickened with a raw egg. Roll up the fillets and poach them in the remaining broth to set the farce. Let them get cold. Then lightly flour them, fry them, and serve with pats of shrimp butter. (See page 116.) [Wyvern.~\ Fillets of Sole D’Orly.—Anything cooked D’Orly is dipped in batter before frying. Let the fillets soak for two hours in a marinade made of the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Turn them now and then. Drain and wipe the fillets, dip them in frying batter, and fry in plenty of boiling oil or suet till they are a nice golden colour. Drain and dry the fillets, dust over with salt, and serve piled on a hot napkin. Many people dislike sauce with batter, but Wyvern recommends this sauce, to be handed in a boat. Break up all the bones and trimmings of the Sole, and with them make half a pint of good fish broth. Thicken this with half an ounce of butter and the same of flour, stir in a four-ounce tomato cut up small, boil up with the fish broth, season with pepper and salt, and pass the whole through a hair sieve. Warm up and finish with the yolk of an egg, and a dessertspoonful of finely-minced chervil. Boiled Sole.—A pat of maitre d’hotel butter is a great addition to a Sole boiled in fish broth. For this, take two ounces of the firmest and best butter to be had (in warm weather it must be iced), add to it the juice of one lemon, one dessertspoonful of minced parsley which has been pressed free from all moisture, a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form into pats with the butter bat, and then set on ice. When the Sole is served send up a pat of this butter melting upon it. Sole au Four, or Sole from the Dutch Oven. —Remove the dark skin from the underpart of the Sole, and on that side make an incision a quarter of an inch deep down each side ofSEA FISH 76 the backbone. With a pair of scissors trim off the small bones all round the lish, flour it, and egg and breadcrumb it. Do this once, and let the Sole dry. Then place it in a well- buttered fire-pi'oof dish and cook it in the Dutch oven, basting it well with the butter. Serve in the same dish. Add a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and the squeeze of a lemon to the butter, and pour over the fish. Baked Sole, or Sole au Gratin.—Butter a flat gratin dish, sprinkle it with minced parsley, lay the Sole on this, and moisten the upper side with melted butter. Bake for eight minutes in the oven, then turn the Sole, baste again with butter, and six minutes afterwards it will be done. Lift the Sole with a slice on to a very hot dish. Add to the butter in the gratin dish a tablespoonful of minced parsley and the juice of a lemon, pour this over the Sole, and serve at once. \Wyvern.~] In all cases where butter is used in cooking fish great care must be taken to have everything as hot as possible, in order to pi-event greasiness. Plaice.—Plaice is a tasteless fish, and generally served in fillets. Cream of Plaice is a better way. For this, take eight ounces of Plaice without bones or skin. Pound in a mortar, adding two ounces of panada and two of butter. Pass it through a hair-sieve, adding a tablespoonful of cream, two whole eggs, and the yolk of a third. When well mixed put it in a well-buttered half-pint mould, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for an hour, or until done. Turn the cream out, and serve with shrimp sauce. Plaice is in season except in February, March, and April, but it is at its best in May. Flounders.—Flounders, or Flukes, as they are called in the North of England, are a small flat fish, caught in abundance in Lancashire, and on other sandy coasts. They are generally used as water souchy with other fish, but Flounders are excellent fried, and served with quarters of lemon and beurre fondu. They are not in season in May, June, and July. Skate.—Skate is rather a coarse fish, weighing from five to forty pounds, but when quite fresh it is not unpalatable. The cut chosen must be carefully skinned, and laid in marinade. It should then be steamed, and served either with cold tartare sauce, or with a sharp, hot sauce called Black Butter. To makeSKATE 77 this, put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, let it brown slightly, but do not let it burn. Take it off the fire, and let it cool. Put two tablespoonfuls of Fi’ench vinegar into another stewpan, and x'educe it to half. Strain the butter into it, add pepper and salt, and make the sauce as hot as you can without boiling. This sauce is generally poured over the piece of Skate. Skate is a winter fish, in season from October to May. Halibut.—Halibut, or Holibut, though not much used in England, is not to be despised if a cut of it can be bought fresh fi’om the fishing boat. The Halibut is the largest flat fish known, often weighing a hundred pounds and being five feet in length. Ho young Halibut has ever been seen. The flesh is rather coarse in texture, but very firm and white. Halibut is best in May, and out of season in February, March and April. Halibut can be cooked in any of the ways recommended for Cod. It is very good in fillets au bleu like Brill, making the fillets of two pounds of Halibut, and adding with the herbs a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and the same of tomato sauce. Halibut Steaks with Oysters or Mushrooms.—Have two or three rather thick slices cut from a very fresh Halibut, wash them in salt and water, dry and flour them, and put them into a fire-proof dish. Squeeze a little lemon juice over the fish, add pepper and salt, and dust with Nepaul pepper. Melt from two to four ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix in this the liquor from twelve oysters, and pour it over the Halibut. Set the dish in a brisk oven. It will be done in about half an hour. Serve in the same dish, and five minutes before taking it out of the oven lay the twelve oysters upon the Halibut. The outside of the slices of fish should be brown, crisp, and dry, and the inside tender and flaky. The quantity of butter must be decided partly by the taste of those who are to eat the Halibut. Mushroom ketchup can be substituted for the oyster liquor, and nicely broiled mushrooms can be added instead of the oysters. I now come to the most generally used varieties of those sea fish which swim with their backs uppermost. They are eleven in number. Cod.—The Cod is by far the most important fish of Northern Seas, and the Cod Fisheries,whether British, American7§ SEA FISH or Scandinavian, are most important industries. For, besides its flesli, the Cod supplies a valuable medicinal oil from its liver, and isinglass little inferior to that of the Russian Sturgeon is furnished by its sounds, or swimming bladder. Isinglass, or fish glue, was formerly an important ingredient in many dishes, but its cost is so great (Russian isinglass costs a shilling an ounce) that gelatine, which is made from bones and hoofs, has taken its place. Cod is in season from September to April, and a fish weighs from five to twenty-five pounds, or more. Cod is best bought in slices or cuts, according to the number of those who are to eat it—a pound and a half is enough for a party of six. The old-fashioned dish of a huge Cod’s head and shoulders is not to be recommended, although the head of a Cod is most valuable in making fish broth or stock. A slice of Cod is sure to be woolly if boiled in water, and likely to be so even if boiled in fish broth, as the flesh is thick. It is much better to steam or bake the slice, or to use it as fillets. A good way is to cut two slices of Cod into fillets three inches long. Dip them in frying batter, and fry in oil to a golden brown. Fry enough oysters to allow one for each fillet, and put them on the fish just before serving. Oyster sauce is generally served with ■Cod. But, valuable as Cod is when first cooked, it is even more appreciated when served up a second time. (For these dishes of previously cooked fish see page 120.) Cod’S Liver.-—The liver should never be cooked with the Cod. It must be put into boiling salted water, and boiled till tender; this will probably take ten minutes. Serve the liver whole on a large piece of dry toast. Those who have not been saturated with cod liver oil in their youth enjoy this dish. Cod Sounds.—These must be soaked in salt and water for some hours, and then boiled in milk and water till tender. Change the milk and water half way through the boiling, replacing it with a fresh supply boiling hot. Cnt np the Sounds into small pieces, make some veloute sauce hot and serve them in it.- Hand quarters of lemon with the Sounds. This dish is said to be very nutritious. Salt Cod with Potatoes and Egg- Sauce.-—Steep a pound .and a half of Salt Cod for six or eight hours in lukewarm water,SALT COD WITH POTATOES AND EGG SAUCE 79 changing it three times. Then leave the Cod in cold water for three hours longer. Put the fish on to boil in cold water; as soon as it boils ease off the fire, and let the Cod simmer for five minutes. Drain the fish, and set it on a hot dish on a bed of nicely mashed potato, and pour a pint of well-made hard-boiled egg sauce over it. The potato should be worked more as a puree in the French way, that is, diluted with stock or milk until it can be poured out of the saucepan about the consistency of porridge. [_Wyvern.~\ For the Egg Sauce make some melted butter, using the water in which the Cod was simmered (the water in which it was soaked would be too salt). . Boil three or four eggs hard, cut up yolks and whites into small pieces a quarter of an inch square, or into dice, and stir them into the melted butter. This way of serving Salt Cod is infinitely superior to that generally seen. In former days a puree of parsnips was always served with Salt Cod. Herring’S.—Herrings are the most abundant of all Sea Fish, and exist in incredible numbers in the German Ocean and the northern parts of the Atlantic, as well as in the seas north of Asia. These are the true Herrings which are eaten when young as Whitebait, when fresh as Herrings, and when cured as Bloaters. Sprats and Pilchards (or Sardines) belong to the same species of fish as Herrings. There are in all sixty different species of Herring in various parts, of the world, but the true Herring can always be known by the oval patch of little teeth on the centre of its palate ; a peculiarity which is not found in the other species. The Herring Fishery is of enormous importance, not only as providing a valuable article of food and of commerce, but as giving employment to thousands of persons either in catching the fish or in curing them. Herrings when in perfection are generally about twelve inches long. The fishery begins off the West Coast of Scotland in April, and lasts till July, when the herrings migrate to the East coast, and move gradually southward as the season advances. The fresh Herrings from Loch Fyne are said to be the best, and are considered to be at their best in May. Herrings are excellent when plainly boiled (if possible in fish broth) as soon as they are taken out of the sea. The Herring among Sea Fish, like the Trout among FreshwaterSEA FISH 8o Fisk, dies sooner than other kinds when caught. To boil them, put them when scaled, cleaned, and washed, into boiling water, and boil for ten or twelve minutes. Or Herrings can be laid in a dish overnight, with a lemon squeezed over them and a sprinkling of salt, and fried in the morning. Or they can be just cleaned and trimmed, and baked in the Dutch oven. In this case, shake raspings of crumbs over the Herrings, add a tiny bit of butter to them, keep the Dutch oven rather away from the fire, and baste with more butter if required. Push the oven nearer to the fire for the last minute, so as to crisp the Herrings, and serve in the same dish. Or Herrings can be broiled over a clear fire after having been slightly buttered. Some people like the roe to be taken out, and separately cooked in the oven. Mustard Sauce is generally liked with Herrings. For this Wyvern’s excellent recipe is: Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan and stir into it an ounce of flour. When thoroughly mixed add, slowly, off the fire, a dessertspoonful of French mustard, incorporating it thoroughly with the roux. Add half a pint of fish broth (or water if you really cannot get fish broth), let it come to the boil, and pass through the pointed strainer into a hot sauce-boat. At the seaside Herrings when in season, or any common fish, are sold so very cheaply that fish broth is always obtainable. When Herrings are plentiful it is a good plan to fillet them, taking one long fillet from each side of each fish. This plan to a great extent does away with the only fault of a Herring—its many bones. The fillets can be fried at once, or left to marinade all night in lemon juice or salt. Take out the roes carefully, just fry them, and set them aside for a savoury. (See chapter on Savouries.) Baked Herring’s in a Crust.—[Gountess Munster.]— Make a shape of good paste just the length and breadth of a Herring. Scale, wash, and clean a fresh Herring, and lay it in the crust, with a bit of butter, some minced chives, pepper and salt. Cover with paste, and bake the Herrings in the oven for from twenty minutes to half an hour. They are excellent. (Fillets of Herrings, being free from bones, are even better.) Grated horseradish, or horseradish sauce, is good with baked or boiled Herrings.BLOATERS Si Bloaters.—The Yarmouth saying about the right method of cooking Bloaters is: “ There was never a Herring spake but the one Who said: Toast my bacli before my bone." This intelligent Herring meant that when he became a Bloater he must be split open, and not grilled as a whole. A Bloater will take from five to eight minutes to grill. Some cooks put a little butter on the fish, hut Bloaters are generally preferred dry, although they must not he allowed to burn. (See also chapter on Savouries.) Whitebait.—It has now been conclusively proved that Whitebait are the fry or young of Herrings. From some cause, as yet unknown, the Whitebait caught at the mouth of the Thames (and which have always been reckoned the best) are en- tirely young herrings, whilst the supplies from other parts of the coast contain the fry of sprats and of other fish. Whitebait is in season from the beginning of February till early in August. The fish should not exceed two inches in length when at their best, and Whitebait, like all immature creatures, will not keep. Whitebait are often spoiled by careless frying, but very little attention is needed in order to serve them perfectly crisp, as they should be. One great point is never to touch them with the fingers. Whitebait are always sent in in a pail of iced water (it should be iced salt and water), and they must be lifted out with a perforated slice. Flour a cloth with fine flour, as this is more absorbent than coarse flour. Lay the Whitebait on the cloth, and with a fork gently separate them from each other. Sprinkle more flour over them, so that they may be floured all over, and let them rest and dry. Turn them out on a wire-sieve, shake it to remove superfluous flour, but do not let the Whitebait touch each other. Have ready a bath of boiling clarified suet at least three inches deep, and see that it is at a fierce heat, 400 degrees. (See Frying1.) Put the Whitebait into the frying-basket with a slice, and be careful to put in only as many as can be thoroughly immersed at once. Fry them for three minutes, lift up the basket, drain the Whitebait over the hot suet, shake them, and turn them out to dry on a hot sieve, or a hot cloth, or on blotting-paper. Do this two hour’s before the Whitebait are wanted. When time to serve them fry themSEA FISH S2 a second time for two minutes, dust a little salt over them, and drain and dry as before. The Whitebait must not be allowed to turn brown. Whitebait are much best when fried “at twice” in this way, as they are sure to be crisp. But if it is not convenient to fry them twice let them remain motionless in the boiling suet for three minutes, then shake the basket or stir the Whitebait apart, leave them quiet for two minutes more, and then give another shake or stir. Five minutes ought quite to cook the Whitebait. Be most careful as to the heat of the suet, or the Whitebait will be flabby. Serve with quarters of lemon, brown bread and butter, and cayenne pepper. If any Whitebait are left they can be again fried for a minute, and served at breakfast. It seems a pity to devil Whitebait, as to do so destroys their flavour. But if liked, prepare the Whitebait as above, drain and dry them, and when very hot dust them well with black pepper and Nepaul pepper, and sprinkle them with salt. Sprats.—Sprats are in season from Lord Mayor’s Day until April. They are seldom more than five inches long, and are often mistaken for young herrings. However, Sprats can always be recognised by their having no teeth on their palate. Fresh Sprats are very good, cooked like whitebait, and served in the same way. They will take ten minutes to fry, and must be scaled before they are cooked. Or Sprats can be threaded on a skewer and broiled over a clear fire, turning them occasionally. Unlike whitebait, Sprats must be cleaned, and this is done by pulling out the gills and what comes with them, as with smelts. Dried Spi'ats are sometimes liked. To cook these, rub them with a soft cloth, cut off the heads and tails, and fry them. Fry one side for two minutes, then turn and fry the other side. Serve very hot. Potted Sprats always taste of garlic (see Garlic), and few people like them. Pilchards or Sardines.—Pilchards, as they are called in England, and Sardines, as they are called in France, are a species of Herring. Sardines are young Pilchards. Pilchards are found in immense quantities in the English Channel (where the Pilchard Fishery in July, August and September, is ofPILCHARDS OR SARDINES 33 great importance), but they do not come further north. A Pilchard is full grown at three years of age, and is then ten inches long; it is distinguished from the herring by its tooth- less palate, and by several other characteristics. Fresh Pilchards are cooked like Herrings, but they are very oily. Salted Pilchards are a necessary of life in Cornish households during the winter. Cornishmen now do a large trade in Cornish Sardines, having learnt the French method of preparing them. Vast shoals of Pilchards visit Japan, and the coasts of Otago in the Southern Island of New Zealand during the early spring. There is no reason why both these countries should not have valuable Sardine manufactories of their own. (For Sardines see chapter on Savouries.) John Dorey.—The colours of this fish are beautiful, although it has a large and ugly head. It is also called St. Peter’s Fish, as the prominent dark spot upon its side is supposed by the Mediterranean fishermen to represent the piece of tribute-money which Peter took from the mouth of a fish. Northern fishermen, however, say that it was the Haddock, which has a round black spot near its head, which Peter caught. The name John Dorey is a corruption of Janitore, or Janitor, St. Peter’s title as the keeper of the gate of heaven. It is a mistake to suppose the name to be taken from the French words Jaune Doree,'on account of the golden yellow colour of the fish. Jobn Dorey is not a very abundant fish in northern seas, although it is frequently met with off the coast of Cornwall and Devonshire. It sometimes weighs twelve pounds, but the flesh is then coarse. The Dorey is best when under eight pounds. It is in season from July to the spring, but is best in February and March. John Dorey is best plainly cooked. It can be boiled in a broth made of its own bony head and other trimmings, and will take about twenty minutes. Serve Dutch sauce with it. Or it can be filleted. For this make a strong broth of the bones and trimmings, with three ounces of onion, some parsley, and plenty of pepper and salt. Simmer this for half an hour, cover with milk and water, and strain it. Heat the broth again, pour it boiling hot upon the fillets, and simmer them in it for fourteen minutes. Take out the fillets, put them84 SEA FISH on a fire-proof dish, which has been buttered and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Either thicken the broth and pour it over the fillets, or for a more elaborate dish use oyster sauce (page 109). Set the dish in the oven for three or four minutes, and serve in the same. Hand quarters of lemons if you use oyster sauce. Haddock.—Haddock is one of the most valuable food fishes of Europe. It is plentiful on the British and Irish coasts, as well as in the North Sea and the North Atlantic. It often weighs fifteen pounds, but is much better when only weighing five pounds or less. Haddock can generally be got, but are best in the winter. They are a variety of Cod, and as the liver is very oily it is best taken out when the Haddock is cleaned. If liked, the liver can be fried or boiled separately. Haddock Stuffed and Baked.—This is a good old- fashioned dish. Season the inside of the Haddock well with pepper and salt. Make a stuffing of two ounces of butter (or, if preferred, two ounces of finely chopped suet), three ounces of sifted breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of minced thyme, and the same of marjoram and parsley, season with pepper and salt, mix in two raw eggs, and work all well together. Put this into the Haddock, sew up the cavity, or fasten it with a small skewer. Truss the Haddock with string, putting its tail through its eyes, or fasten it into shape with two skewers. Butter a flat gratin dish, put the Haddock on, add a few bits of butter, and bake it in a moderate oven for from twenty minutes to half an hour. When the Haddock is served take out the skewers, or remove the string. Baste it well while in the oven. Mustard Sauce is good with baked Haddock. Or a Haddock can be laid on the drainer of a stewpan, just covered with fish broth, brought once to the boil, and then simmered for ten minutes. Egg sauce is best with boiled Haddock. Or fillets of Haddock can be fried either D’Orly in batter, or merely floured and served with a pat of inaitre d’hotel butter on each. “ Wyvern’s ” Haddock.—Carefully remove the flesh from each side of the backbone of a good-sized fresh Haddock, thus obtaining two long fillets. Put these aside. Break up the bones, tail, and head, and make a broth with them. For this put them into a stewpan with a saltspoonful of salt; cover with85 “ WYVERN’S ” HADDOCK cold water, bring slowly to the boil, then add three ounces of onion, one of celery, a bunch of parsley, some herbs, and mignonette pepper; simmer till the broth is good, then strain and skim it. Choose a saute-pan with an upright rim, put in the broth with a claretglass of chablis or sauterne, and bring it to the boil. Now put in the two pieces of fish, let the broth return to the boil after their immersion, and then reduce the heat to simmering. In about eight minutes they will be done. Take them out with a slice, and lay them upon a hot dish, covering them up. Make a roux in a saucepan of half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to half a pint of broth, pour the broth on it, and, as it is working, add by small pieces at a time half a gill of freshly made shrimp puree. For this, pick, pound and pass through a sieve a quarter of a pint of cooked shrimps, and simmer them till tender in broth. Reduce to the quantity required. When all is thoroughly amalgamated and skimmed, pom’ it over the pieces of fish through a pointed strainer, mask- ing them nicely. Haddock in a Mould.—Make the broth as for Wyvern’s Haddock, adding to it, off the fire and after it has been thickened, the yolk of a raw egg. Pound the flesh of the Haddock in a mortar, moistening it with a spoonful or two of the broth. When well pounded, pass the fish through the sieve, and add to it half its bulk of white breadcrumb that has been soaked in milk. Pound all together, moisten slightly with the broth and two well-beaten eggs, seasoning with spiced pepper. When well mixed, butter a plain pudding-mould, fill it with the mixture, and poach it “ au bain-marie,” that is, place it one-third deep in boiling water, watch it come again to the boil, then lower the fire and steam as you would a pudding, closely covered, for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour over the mould any remains of the broth. Or shrimp sauce may be added. Dried Haddocks.—There are three sorts of Dried Haddocks —Pale Haddocks, Smokies, and Finnan Haddocks. Pale Had- docks are split, and very slightly smoked. Smokies are only half split, tied in pairs by the tails, and thoroughly smoked. “ Finnan ” Haddocks were originally cured at Findon, a small village lying at the head of a rock-bound creek eight miles86 SEA FISH soutli of Aberdeen. It is said that Haddocks were cured at Findon as early as tlie twelfth century, but the industry lias now passed from Findon to Aberdeen, where the Findon method of curing is exactly followed, although of course on a very large scale. Large works with every modern improvement as to lighting and sanitation have been erected on the Albert Quay, Aberdeen, by Mr. Andrew Christie, and from him the true Finnan Haddocks (or any Dried Haddock) can be obtained. As soon as the fish reach the quay at Aberdeen they are thoroughly cleaned, split, and every particle of blood is removed. The Haddocks are then put into salt pickle for fifteen or twenty minutes, and hung in a drying shed for a certain number of hours, generally all night. During this drying process the Haddocks become broadened out. They are then placed in the kiln (which has a pyramid-shaped chimney with a swinging hood) and hung over slow fires of peat mixed with a little white-wood sawdust. Originally peat only was used; but a fisherwoman, who, when her stock of peat ran short, tried sawdust from a sawmill, made the discovery that the mixture creates a larger and purer volume of smoke, and gives a brighter tint to the fish when cured. Her accidental discoverv has been followed by Finnan Haddock curei’s ever since. After the Haddocks have been smoked they are again washed to free them from dust, and are ready for sale. In the height of the curing season five or six tons a day of Dried Haddocks are sold by Mr. Christie, and his Finnan Haddocks are cured to perfection. Finnan Haddock for Breakfast.—{Family Recipe.)—Soak the Haddock in cold water for one hour. Take it out, dry it, skin it, and put it into a buttered saute-pan. Pour over it, according to the size of the fish, a tablespoonful or two table- spoonfuls of thin cream. Put the pan on the fire, let it come to the boil, and then let it simmer with the lid on till the Haddock is cooked. This will probably be in half an hour. Take out the fish, lay it on a hot dish, reduce the sauce till you have to scrape it out of the pan. Put it on the Haddock; it gives just a browning look and a nice flavour. Add no season- ing of any kind. Serve the fish very hot. Or, having soaked the Haddock, broil it ou the gridiron.FINNAN HADDOCK FOR BREAKFAST 87 Then remove the skin and bones, break np the flesh with two forks, lay it on a fii’e-proof dish, and add an equal quantity of sifted breadcrumbs. Take an ounce of buttei’, put some among the fish and the crumbs, and the rest in little bits on the top. Dust with cayenne, and set the dish in the oven to get slightly brown. Or the Finnan Haddock can be laid on a buttered dish, and cooked in the Dutch oven. Or it can be plainly toasted on a toasting-fork before a clear fire, and served in a hot, -well- buttered dish. For these recipes do not skin the fish. (See also chapter on Savouries.) Whiting. —The Whiting, “that chicken of the ocean,” as Lord Beaconsfield called it, is a very favourite and a very delicate fish. It can always be had, but is best from May to January. Whitings are abundant in our seas, and vary in weight from half a pound to two pounds. This fish suffers more than any other at the hands of the fishmonger, for he has a time-honoured custom of skinning it and curling it round with its tail in its mouth. This custom no doubt originated with unscrupulous fishmongers, for haddocks, a cheap fish, can easily be mistaken for the more expensive Whitings when the latter are skinned. The fishmonger should be induced to send Whitings in just as they are, merely cleaning them if wished. The Whitings can then be filleted and plainly fried, or fried in batter D’Orly. Or they can be cooked as in Paris; that is, laid flat in a deep dish, strewed with minced parsley, set in the oven—-or, better, the Dutch oven—for eight or ten minutes, and well basted with either butter or fish broth till they are done. Squeeze a lemon over the Whitings before serving, and hand brown bread and butter. Another way is to score the Whitings down one side, each cut being an inch and a half from the next, then sprinkle a buttered fire-proof dish with two tablespoonfuls of rasped and pounded crust of bread (the chapelure of French cooks), and lay the Whitings on it, with the scored side uppermost. Moisten the fish with butter or fish broth, sprinkle over them two more tablespoonfuls of raspings, with a little minced parsley and minced mushrooms, bake in the oven for from ten to twelve minutes, and serve in the same dish. This way may be varied, according to Wyvern, bySEA FISH 88 brushing the scored Whitings over with a coating of melted butter, and sprinkling over that a layer of finely-grated Parmesan. Let this rest while you flavour a gill of milk by boiling it up with a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, a pinch of salt, one of pepper, and one of mace, if liked. Use this for moistening and basting the Whiting, put the dish in the Dutch oven, pour a tablespoonful of melted butter over the fish, and set the oven in front of the fire. Reverse the dish after five minutes, baste freely, and finish in ten or twelve altogether. Serve in the same dish. Ho sauce is needed, but lemon and bread and butter should be handed. In Italy, Whitings are skinned and filleted, and laid for four hours in a marinade of oil, lemon juice, slices of onion, and whole parsley leaves. Then they are drained, dried, egged and breadcrumbed or floured, and fried a golden brown in oil. Soused Or Scalded Whiting’S are very easily digested. The old-fashioned method of cooking them has been much improved upon by Wyvern. Put three or four Whitings, which have merely been cleaned, on a dish over-night, squeeze a lemon over them, and sprinkle them with salt. Next day put a fish-kettle with drainer on the fire with as much water as you think will cover the fish nicely, and add to it a dessertspoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt. Wipe each fish, and when the water boils put them into the kettle. This will stop the boiling. Let it come to the boil again, then draw back the kettle, and let it simmer for from five to eight minutes according to the size of the fish. Drain as soon as tender, and drain off every drop of water from the fish. Serve with lemon and brown bread and butter. Small fresh haddocks can also be “ soused.” The heads and bones of Whitings will generally yield as much fish broth as may be required for any dish in which they appear. But the broth must be made according to the instruc- tions given in the following recipe. Little Fish Creams.—Petits Cremes a la Dieppoise. —These can be made of any white fish, and are excellent. Have a sixpenny Whiting sent home intact. Take the flesh off in two fillets and set them aside. Chop up the head, bones, and skin, put them into a stewpan, moisten89 LITTLE FISH CREAMS with half a pint each of cold milk and cold water; season with salt and pepper, and bring slowly to the boil over a low fire. Then add two ounces of minced onion, half an ounce of celery, a sprig of parsley, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs. Simmer forty-five minutes and strain. (This is the Whiting fish broth just referred to.) Put the strained broth into a saute-pan with an uprig’ht rim, boil, put in the two fillets, reduce to simmering, and as soon as soft take them out. Put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste. Weigh, and for every six ounces of Whiting allow two ounces of butter or fat of cooked ham, and two ounces of bread panada. Mix, and pass all through a wire sieve. Now add to the puree thus obtained two whole eggs and the yolk only of another. Beat well together, season, add a tablespoonful of cream, put the mixture into buttered dariole moulds, tap each smartly on a folded cloth laid on the table to cause the filling to be even, and poach very gently about thirty-five minutes. The steaming should be done in this way : Choose a roomy stewpan, lay a sheet of paper folded in four at the bottom of it, pour in hot water about an inch deep, set it on the fire, and when nearly boiling slip in the darioles. Let boiling begin, but at once reduce to gentle simmering, keeping the pan covered. Whilst this is going on turn the fish broth into a sauce, thicken- ing with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. Bring to the boil, pass through a hair sieve, add three penny- worth of picked shrimps finely minced, and a tablespoonful of cream. When the creams are ready, turn them out of the moulds, dish in a circle on a hot dish, and mask with the sauce. A pile of cooked fillets of cucumber may be arranged in the centre. This dish may be made of previously cooked fish, but in that case it would be advisable to get a few fish-cuttings to make a broth for the sauce. The creams can also be served cold, masked with the sauce reduced to such a consistency as to coat them. Put cucumber or other salad in the centre, dressed with mayonnaise sauce. To get a smooth masking in this case omit the shrimps in making the sauce, and use them in the salad. [ Wyvern.] Mackerel.—Mackerel exist in immense “schools” in the tropical and temperate oceans, only coming near the coastSEA FISH 90 periodically. They appear in the English Channel in spring, going on to the southern part of the North Sea in summer. In May and June thousands of tons of Mackerel are landed at Plymouth and Penzance. Mackerel are at their best in May, and should be about ten inches in length. This fish will not keep, and when fish were “ cried ” in London streets Mackerel only were allowed to be “cried” on Sunday. The skin of a Mackerel is beautifully coloured, but it is thin, papery, and useless, and must be thrown away. Mackerel is best broiled. When the fish is cleaned, washed, and wiped dry, split it open, so that when laid flat the back bone will be in the middle. Sprinkle lightly with salt, lay the Mackerel on a well-oiled gridiron over a clear fire, with the inside of the fish downwards, until it begins to brown, then turn it over. When quite done lay the fish on a hot dish, butter it, turn another hot dish over it, and let it stand for two or three minutes before serving. Or the Mackerel can be filleted, and the fillets broiled. Or it can be split down the back, grilled or broiled for ten or twelve minutes, and an ounce of maltre d’hotel butter put inside it. Then close the fish and serve at once. When Mackerel is boiled it must be put on in cold water, on account of its very thin skin, and gently brought to the boil. Then let it simmer for ten minutes, and drain thoroughly before serving. Fennel Sauce is liked with Mackerel. For this mix half an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter in half a pint of fish broth. Flavour this with a dessertspoonful of blanched and chopped fennel sprigs. The fennel will make the sauce sharp enough for most people, but if liked very sharp indeed add a tea- spoonful of vinegar which has been reduced by boiling from a tablespoonful. Avoid “ decorating ” the fish with sprays of the fresh grey-green fennel, however pretty they may be. Mackerel is very good served cold in TVyvern’s way. For this luncheon dish, boil one large or two medium-sized Mackerel in a liquid made of half water and half vinegar. When done take them out, lay them in a deep earthenware dish, pour the liquid over them and let them soak in it all night. Next day fillet the Mackerel, lay them in a dish over ice, and mask the surface of the fillets with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and, if olives are liked, add chopped and turned9i MACKEREL olives, or cold cooked fillets of cucumber. For these see chapter on Vegetables. Mullet.—Red Mullet and Grey Mullet belong to different families of fish. The Red Mullet is infinitely superior in flavour. It is abundant in the Mediterranean, and tolerably plentiful on our southern coasts. Fifty years ago gourmands used to spend the summers at Weymouth, on purpose to eat Red Mullet, and would give as much as two guineas for a fine fish. Red Mullet lose their colour when they die in the water, so that fishermen are apt to scale them whilst alive, as this causes the cells holding the red pigment to expand, and the colour is then preserved after death. Red Mullet are in season from the end of June to October, and weigh from half a pound to a pound and a half ; they never come near the shore. These fish must be eaten when absolutely fresh, and are not drawn ; they are cleaned by pulling out the gills, when all that need be removed will come away. Red Mullet should not be washed, only gently wiped with a clean soft cloth. Sir Henry Thompson’s method is by far the best for cooking Red Mullet. This is to set the fish in a high well-buttered fire-proof dish in the Dutch oven, and bake it. It must be protected for the first five minutes by a buttered paper, and after that is removed it must be basted with its own liquor. In this way, Sir Henry Thompson says, the gravy of delicious flavour which issues abundantly from the fish (chiefly from the liver) is secured and forms its only sauce. Red Mullet will take from fifteen to twenty-five minutes to bake. Hand lemon and brown bread and butter. Red Mullet en Papillotes.—Fold half a sheet of white foolscap paper in two, cut out of it a pocket large enough to hold one Mullet. Double the edges firmly over at each end. Butter a fire-proof dish, and bake the Mullet in the papers. Or, instead of the pocket, fold the paper over the fish so as to wrap it up entirely. Serve in the papers, very hot. Grey Mullet.—These fish are in season at the same time as Red Mullet, and are much larger, often weighing five pounds or more. Grey Mullet prefer estuaries and brackish water to the open sea, and as they swallow quantities of mud and dirty food it is best only to use those which one knows toSEA FISH 92 have been caught in clean water. Grey Mullet abound on almost every coast in temperate and tropical regions, and in hot countries often reach twelve pounds in weight. It is a good and useful fish when its food has not been foul. Grev Mullet may be cooked in any of the ways suggested for fresh haddock. It is very good baked and stuffed in Wyvem's way. Choose a nice Grey Mullet, and threepenny worth of shrimps. Fry the shrimps, and if very salt plunge them into hot water for half a minute and then into cold ; do not soak them or they will lose their flavour. Drain the shrimps dry, and pound them thoroughly with half an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs soaked in milk. Pass this through the sieve and season it with a teaspoonful of finely- minced parsley, one of chervil, and one of chives, or the green stem of a young onion; give this a dust of pepper, salt, and mace if liked, and work it thoroughly together with a well- beaten egg. Now lay the Mullet on a board, wipe it dry, fill it with the shrimp stuffing, and sew it up securely. Put the Mullet on a buttered fire-proof dish, pour a breakfastcupful (ox- half a pint) of fish broth round it, shake a thin layer of cx-ust- raspings over it, put a few morsels of butter on it, and bake it in the Dutch oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. If possible pour a spoonful of sauteme over the Mullet whilst it is baking. Baste during the cooking, and serve in the same dish, with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on the top of the fish. (Haddock is excellent cooked in this way with shrimp stuffing.) Smelts.—Smelts ought to be pei'fectly fresh, as they are not cleaned, only drawn from the gills like Red Mullet, They are in season from October to May, and should be about seven inches long. Smelts are good fx-ied, either egged and bread- crumbed, or rolled in milk and oatmeal. To be crisp they should be fried “at twice,” xiot letting them colour the first time. Do not have the suet too hot at first, but increase the temperature (see Frying’). If the Smelts have to be fried at once they will take six minutes. Many cooks roll and pat them gently befoi’e fiying to make them look round and plump. Or Smelts can be baked. For this dish cut the heads off the Smelts, lay them side by side on a well-buttered fix*e-pi’oof dish, sprinkle them with minced pax-sley, and shake over them someSMELTS 93 x’aspings. Coat the Smelts with beaten egg before you add the layer of raspings. Baste with fish broth or a little melted butter, and bake in the oven for six minutes. Serve in the same dish. Or cook them in this way after preparing the Smelts as in the following recipe. “Wyvern’s” Stuffed Smelts .—Choose large Smelts, and remove the flesh from the bones of each in two long fillets. Take out the roes, pound them with a fillet of anchovy and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to a paste, and season witb salt and white pepper. Brush over each fillet of each Smelt with beaten egg, spread a layer of the roe farce over it, lay the other fillet over it sandwichwise, and do the same with the rest. Let them rest awhile to set, then brush them over with egg, breadcrumb with finely-sifted crumbs; let this dry, egg and crumb again, and fry in plenty of boiling suet. Drain, dry, and serve on a hot napkin with lemon and parsley garnish. Butter melted, sharpened with lemon juice, should be the only sauce. In this way the only defect in a Smelt, the bones, is got rid of. Sea Bream.—This is a handsome reddish-coloured fish, weighing from half a pound to five pounds. It is in season from July to November. It is best filleted, simmered in fish broth, and served with the brotb thickened into sauce, flavoured with a gill of tomato puree and sharpened with lemon juice and a little minced pickled gherkin. But Sea Bream is a more popular fish in Spain and Greece than it is here. Gurnard.—-This also is a reddish-coloured fish, with a very ugly head. It weighs from half a pound to six pounds, and is very good eating. The Grey Gurnard, called in Scotland the Hardhead, is thought to be better in flavour than the red variety. Gurnards can be had nearly all the year round. They are good when cooked like haddock, and are best when not exceeding two pounds in weight. I have now mentioned all the Sea Fish generally seen in fishmongers’ shops, but there are many other kinds known to seaside residents. All our British Sea Fish are fit to eat when fresh, and many form most valuable food. We have none of the poisonous fish which exist in southern seas, nor have we to contend with the tastelessness of those tropical fish which,SEA FISH 94 although they are so beautiful to the eye, need all the genius of a negro cook, or all the skill of a French chef, before they can be made acceptable to the palate. The one fault of fish in this country is its price. When fish is bought from a fishmonger there is no doubt that, taking weight for weight, it is more expensive than butchers’ meat. Most people would not grudge this expense if the money went direct to those whose “brave daring ” has brought the fish to shore. There is truth in the words of that fine old song, Caller Herrin'— “ Wives and mithers, maist despairin’, Call them lives of men.” And everyone who buys the fish which has been caught with so much toil and risk must regret the line of middlemen which keep much of their well-earned money from the fishermen. British fish will have reached perfection when it can pass with- out intervention from the fisherman’s boat to the purchaser’s kitchen. On Cleaning1 Fish.—Cleaning and trimming fish is so entirely the province of the fishmonger that a cook is often at a loss what to do with fish when it is brought straight from the sea, the loch, or the river. A wise mistress will give her cook a lesson from a good fishmonger in cleaning and in filleting fish, but for those who have not had this advantage I will men- tion a few general rules : Flat fish are cleaned through the gill openings ; or, if these are not sufficiently large, make a small cut across the dark side of the fish close to the gill covers and remove what is necessary through that. Fish which swim back uppermost are cleaned by opening the stomach, taking care to go far enough back towards the tail. The whole of the entrails of the fish must be removed, and the gall bladder taken out without breaking it. The sound and liver should be left as they are. Now wash out the cavity thoroughly and carefully. Just below the backbone of the fish there is a stout membrane which contains a good deal of blood. This membrane must be broken, and every particle of blood removed. Wash, and, if necessary, scrape or scrub the backbone, and wash the sound and liver gently. Leave the roe in small fish. In large fish the roe takes longer to cook than the fish, and must be taken out and cookedON CLEANING FISH 95 separately. Dry the inside of the fish with a clean cloth. If there is any slime on the fish rub it over with salt and then wash it vexy thoroughly. Izaak Walton thought it best to scale fish with his nails. But in these days a knife is used. Hold the fish fii’mly by the head in your left hand, and scrape off the scales with a knife, working from the tail towards the head. Salmon and Ti-out are not scaled, but most freshwater fish are so difficult to scale that it is better to dip them first into boiling water-. This loosens the scales. If the freshwater fish is a muddy feeder like Tench or Carp or Perch, wash it well, rub salt down the backbone, and lay it in strong salt and water for a few hours. In skinning Sea Fish it must be remembered that Haddocks and Whiting and all similar fish are skinned from the head to the tail; if this were not done the flesh would come of in flakes. For a Whiting, slit the skin down the middle of the back, and the skin will come off in two halves. For Haddocks and other such fish, cut off the fins, and having dipped your finger and thumb in salt slip the finger under the skin close to the head of the fish and draw off the skin downwards towards the tail. The fins of all fish except Turbot and Skate must be trimmed neatly off with a pair of scissors kept expressly for the purpose. The thick glutinous fins of Turbot and Skate are thought a great delicacy, and are therefore left on. It is almost impossible to skin a Plaice, as the skin adhei’es so tightly to the flesh. It is better to leave it on if the Plaice is to be baked or fried, but, when it must be skinned for filleting, fillet it first, lay the fillets on a board with the skin downwards, and peel the flesh off with the point of a sharp knife. The skinning of a Sole, or any flat fish except a Plaice, must be done from the tail and not from the head. When yon have trimmed off the fins take a sharp knife and make a cut aci'oss the root of the tail. Then put your thumb in between the skin and the flesh of the Sole and run it all round the edges of the fish, thus loosening the skin. Now either hold the tail of the fish firmly in a cloth with one hand and pull the skin off with the other, or dip both your thumbs and both your forefingers in salt to prevent slipping, hold the tail of the fish in one hand and the skin in the other, and draw the skin firmly but gently off towards the head.96 SEA FISH Filleting Fish requires nicety, and a lesson or two will be found valuable. However, a neat-fingered person will soon manage tlie fillets skilfully. Flat fish are generally filleted in four, other fish in two ; that is, the flesh is taken from the bones in four strips, or in two. A sharp filleting knife must be kept solely for this work. To fillet a flat fish, we will say a Brill, first cut off the outside fin close to the body. Then with the knife make a deep cut quite into the bone all along the line, which marks the middle of each side of the fish. Work the point of the knife backwards and forwards close to the bone till you have raised the flesh on either side and can get the fillet off whole, leaving the bone clear. Take the other two fillets off in the same way. For fish which swim back upper- most, and from which you can only get two fillets, make one long cut down the middle of the back, and work the strips of flesh off downwards over the ribs. Anchovies and Sardines are preserved in oil, and it often happens that this oil is not properly removed before the fish are served. Merely wiping them is not enough. The fish should be laid one by one on a dish in a row. Tip the dish up slightly and pour a little hot water gently over the row of fish. This will make the fishy oil drain away to the bottom of the sloped dish. Now wipe the fish thoroughly with a soft cloth, and either scale them or carefully scrape off the skin. The Anchovies or Sardines can then be filleted, either in four strips or in two, as required. Fresh Haddocks, or Codling’s, Toasted Whitby Fashion.—(Family Recipe. 1830.)—Clean and skin the fish. Put it into a very clean dripping-pan free from all grease. Sprinkle a little flour over the fish, and leave it in the pan till done, turning it over and over very often. (In these days a baking-tin and Dutch oven might be used.) Fresh Brill, Smoked.—Wyvern recommends a Brill for this excellent dish, as a Brill resembles the Indian fish Pomfret. But any flat fish, or slices of fish, can be cooked in this fashion. Choose a fish of about a pound and a half or two pounds. Fillet it, and dry the four fillets in a cloth. Now prepare a fire of Treloar’s Cocoanut Fibre, damp it, and it will make a great volume of smoke. Put the gridiron over the fire, but well inFRESH BRILL, SMOKED 97 the smoke, butter the fish fillets on both sides, lay them side by side on the gridiron, covering them, as they are cooking in the vapour, with the lid of a tin fish-kettle, to concentrate the smoke. In about ten minutes the fish will turn a rich warm brown on the side nearer the fire; then turn it, and smoke the other side, which will take about five minutes. The fillets can now be served with any plain sharp sauce. The process can be managed in an ordinary fire grate if the kitchen range is a closed one, and in smoke produced from damp clean straw, or shavings laid on a wood fire. [ Wyvern.] Russian Salmon Pie.—Either make or get from the bakers such dough as they use for making milk rolls. Take half a quartern of dough ; beat up two eggs with from a quarter to half a pound of butter, mix this well with the dough and let it rise. When sufficiently risen spread it out on a baking sheet. Take rice which has been well boiled the day before, and add to it a little butter, one hard-boiled egg chopped small, and a little boiled and minced onion. Spread the rice pretty thickly on your crust, leaving a sufficient margin uncovered all round. On this bed of rice lay a pound of Salmon. Cover the fish with another layer of rice, and turn over the margin of dough so as to completely enclose the whole. Make a little hole at the top. Bake the pie (it will probably need an hour), and before serving pour in a teacupful of good fish broth through the hole. Cod or haddock can be cooked in the same way. If cod is used, a few sauce oysters are a great improvement. RIVER FISH. River Fish, such as Salmon, Salmon Trout, and Trout are unrivalled in flavour, and other sorts, such as Grayling and Gudgeons are very good. But all these Fish should be cooked as soon as possible, for, as Izaak Walton says in his “ Compleat Angler,” published in 1653, “ These kinds of Fish, a Trout “ especially, if he is not eaten within four or five hours after he “ be taken, is worth nothing.” Sir Henry Thompson in Food and Feeding speaks of the astonishment with which a Frenchman tastes for the first time a Severn or Christchurch Salmon taken from the water in the H98 RIVER FISH morning, crimped on arrival in London in the afternoon, and served at dinner in the evening. He continues, “ The fine nutty “ flavour of the very delicate oil of the Fish, and the crisp “ brittle quality of the flakes which the flesh offers after “ crimping are wholly unknown wherever the Salmon has to be “ carried by a transit approaching in length to a duration of “ twenty-four hours.” The oil very soon acquires a certain flavour, which is in fact the first sign of the approach of decomposition. Salmon therefore ought to be eaten as fresh as possible. As soon as the Fish is quite dead the keeper should clean it at the water-side, leaving only the liver inside. It will be all the better if he can wipe the inside dry with a cloth. Before the Salmon stiffens it should be crimped. The keeper should do this by scoring the fish across the body with a sharp knife, working from head to tail, and making the cuts about two inches apart and nearly down to the bone. After this the Salmon should be held for a few minutes in running water, or under falling water, or plunged in a cool shady pool for a quarter of an hour. It should then be sent off at once to the cook. As the Salmon has been some time dead crimping cannot inflict pain, and there is no doubt that it makes the flesh of the Fish firmer and crisper. Much as Sir Henry Thompson objects to boiling Fish, he says, “ To cook crimped Salmon in perfection, a slice should be “ plunged into an ample saucepan of boiling salted water, and “ allowed to boil for eight minutes only.” I have already given an excellent recipe for Broiled Salmon. Salmon Steaks.—Out the Steaks an inch thick, roll them in oatmeal or flour, and lay them on a well-oiled or buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Turn them with a slice slipped under them and a broad-bladed knife held above them, lest the Steaks should break. When they are a light clear brown, lay them in a hot dish, butter each Steak as you do so, and season each well with pepper and salt. Serve in a hot closely-covered dish. Hand Dutch sauce, finished with finely-grated horseradish, a dessertspoonful to half a pint of sauce. Salmon Rag’out.—Remove the skin from half a pound of cold boiled Salmon, cut the fish into neat fillets, and dust with99 SALMON RAGOUT pepper and salt. Prepai’e an equal quantity of cold cooked Vegetable Marrow or Cucumber neatly trimmed in small fillets. Slice finely two ounces of onion and the same of carrot, and fry them without colouring in an ounce of butter. Now add a pint of fish broth (or milk and water, two-thirds milk to one-third water), the fish bones and trimmings, one pennyworth of fish cuttings, a blade of mace and a saltspoonful of salt. Boil this up and simmer it afterwards till you have extracted all the flavour. Now strain off the broth, skim, thicken it, add a good tablespoonful of minced herbs—parsley, tarragon, chives, and chervil; heat up the fillets of fish and vegetable in this, give a squeeze of lemon, and serve in a hot dish. [ Wyvern.] Salmon Steaks, Served Cold, Jewish Fashion.—Cut the Steaks three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay them in slightly salted water for ten minutes. Dry them with a clean cloth, dredge on both sides with flour, and roll them in beaten egg. Fry in really boiling oil for twenty minutes, turning the Steaks so that they are equally cooked on both sides. Drain on blotting-paper laid on a cloth, and set the Steaks aside till quite cold. Hand iced tartare sauce in a boat. Slice Of Salmon Poached.—Choose a slice of Salmon weighing about a pound and not more than an inch thick, make a pint and a half of fish broth from a pennyworth of fish cuttings. Strain the broth, add a glass of chablis, and pour it into an eight-inch saute-pan with an upright rim. Bring to the boil, then put in the Salmon, let it boil a minute, and then simmer it for eight or ten minutes till it is tender. Drain off all the broth, leaving the Salmon in the dry pan, covered with a hot cloth, while you turn half the broth to sauce. For this, have ready a roux of three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour in a different saucepan. Boil rip and skim, passing the sauce rapidly through a hair sieve, and finishing with the yolk of an egg, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Divide the Salmon into nice pieces, dish on a small flat dish, mask with the sauce, and serve. [ Wyvern.] British Salmon is in season from February (when the Irish rivers open) till the beginning of September. Dutch Salmon can be had during the five months in which the English fish is out of season. The same rule as to season applies to Grayling. H 2RIVER FISH IOO Trout.—Trout, when taken from the water, die sooner than any other fish. The best way of cooking a cleaned fresh Trout is to split it, spread it open, and then grill it over a clear fire. Have the gridiron well buttered, and see that the fire, though hot, is not fierce. Set a little pat of maitre d’hotel butter on the Trout just as you serve it, and butter the Trout before it is grilled, or it will burn. Boiled Trout.—Izaak Walton preferred trout boiled in what we should now call a Court Bouillon (see page 102), with the addition of a handful of sliced horseradish root, the rind of a lemon, and “ a handsome little faggot of rosemary, thyme, and winter savoury.” Trout Cooked Highland Fashion.—Clean, scale, wash, and dry each fish. Dust each with salt, but use no pepper. Roll each Trout in fine dry oatmeal, and broil them one by one on the hot gridiron. Drain the Trout on clean white blotting- paper, and serve side by side in a hot dish. The bars of the gridiron must be well buttered or oiled. Or the Trout can be fried singly in boiling suet, allowing from six to eight minutes for each, according to size. Sea Trout.—Never boil a Sea Trout. Grill it, dusted with pepper and salt, as above. Or cook it in the Dutch oven, according to Sir Henry Thompson’s method. If sauce is liked, use mayonnaise. Grayling.—The Grayling is found in the same rivers as the Trout, but it is a smaller fish. Grayling should be cooked like Trout, except that the scales must be removed, which is not done with Trout. Izaak Walton thought most highly of the Grayling, considering it to be “ very medicinable.” He says that “ the Salmon, the Grayling, and the Trout, and all “ fish that live in clear and shai’p streams, are made by their “ mother Nature of such exact shape and pleasant colours “ purposely to invite us to a joy and contentedness in feasting “ with her.” Gudgeons.—Gudgeons do not live, like Trout and Grayling, on flies, but find their food among the stones at the bottom of clear rivers. Izaak Walton commends Gudgeons as being “ of excellent taste and nourishment, and very wholesome.” Gudgeons are best when rather small. They should beGUDGEONS iox lightly rolled in flour or oatmeal, and fried. Before flouring, dip each Gudgeon in milk. Or Gudgeons can be split open, buttered, seasoned with pepper and salt, and either broiled on the gridiron or cooked in the Dutch oven. Fried Gudgeons were a special dish at the celebrated York House Hotel at Bath, and at the Pavilion Henri Quatre at St. Germain, near Paris. Lampreys and Lamperns.—The best Lamperns are caught in the Severn at "Worcester, and do not exceed fifteen inches in length. Lampreys are much larger, sometimes twenty-eight inches long, and are found in the sea as well as in rivers. Both fish are most indigestible, but some people con- sider them great delicacies. They should be thoroughly cleaned in boiling salted water, dried, and gently rubbed over with mixed white spices. Let the fish lie for twenty-four hours. Then put them to simmer very gently in the liquor which has run from them. If this is not enough, add some strong fish broth. When the fish are nearly done add a glass of port wine to the broth. Lamperns are served whole. Lampreys are cut up like eels. They are bluish in colour, and very rich. Henry the First died after eating freely of Lam- pems. Carp.—River Carp are infinitely superior to the muddy, sleepy Carp of Ponds. They are best baked like a Pike, and will take an hour. Or the Carp may be filleted and fried, or plainly grilled. The roe should be taken out and used separately as a savoury. POND FISH. French people, partly on account of the distance of many parts of France from the sea, and partly on account of the preservation in France of the fish-ponds and moats which disappeared in England with the abbeys and monasteries, make much more use of Pond Fish than we do. They are apt to hide the tastelessness of Pond Fish by all sorts of stuffings and garnishes, and even by larding, but French cooks have two excellent rules which we should do well to follow. One of these is never to boil Pond Fish (or indeed any Fish) in plain102 POND FISH water, but in a vegetable brotb called a Court Bouillon. For this, take four ounces of carrots and the same of onions, one ounce of parsley, a teaspoonful of thyme and the same of basil, one ounce of butter, and the same quantity of salt. Stir over the fire for ten minutes, and then add two quarts of water, and either half a pint of French vinegar or a quarter of a pint of white wine, such as sauterne or hock, and a quarter of a pint of water. Simmer all for one hour, strain and set aside till wanted. Then bring the Court Bouillon to boiling point and pour it round the fish to be cooked. If claret is used instead of white wine the fish is said to be cooked “ au bleu.” In the case of Pond Fish such importance is attached to the Court Bouillon that the Fish is boiled in it the day before it is wanted, and left to get cold in the bouillon. In any case, the Fish is boiled early in the morning and left in the bouillon till just before dinner, when it is gently heated up. The Fish is drained, and served with the thickened bouillon as sauce, tinless a special sauce is preferred. The other valuable rule with French cooks is to marinade, or soak, fillets of Fish which they wish to fry. For every pound of Fish they allow four tablespoonfuls of oil, the juice of one lemon (or a tablespoonful of anchovy vinegar), a few sprigs of parsley coarsely chopped up, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. The fillets are left to soak in this mixture for an hour, then wiped dry and fried. Pond Fish are so full of bones that filleting is recommended for most of them. As Pond Fish is cooked in England many people would say that Canon Kingsley’s * recipe for cooking a Chub might be applied to every variety. “ You may make a most accurate “ imitation of him by taking one of Palmer’s patent candles, “ wick and all, stuffing it with needles and split bristles, and “ then stewing the same in ditch-water.” But if Pond Fish is cooked French fashion the result will be very diffei'ent. Izaak Walton gives many recipes for cooking Pond Fish, as well as directions for catching them. Some of his hints may well be followed now. Perhaps the most important is that the Fish should be cleaned at the tvater-side as soon as it is dead (it is to be feared, however, that the Compleat Angler did not always wait for the death of his prey), and sent at once to the * “ Prose Idylls. Chalk Stream Studies,” p. 86.POND FISH 103 cook with only the liver remaining within it. The Fish was to be cooked at once, and on no account to be soaked in cold water. The speedy cleaning obviates the muddy or weedy taste which is due to the food which the Fish has lately been enjoying. Perch and Tench should be filleted, as this method removes many of their troublesome bones. Of course all bones and trimmings must be kept to make the fish broth in which the fillets are subsequently cooked. This broth, with scraped horseradish and chopped parsley, will also make the sauce. A Jack is a small Pike, and both Jack and Pike should be stuffed. Boiling spoils them: if under four pounds’ weight they should be baked; if heavier, they should be roasted in the Dutch oven. The amount of stuffing must of course be regulated by the size of the Fish. The simplest stuffing is made of crumbs bound with egg, moistened with suet and seasoned with herbs. See that the Jack is clean and quite dry inside, and calculate what quantity of crumbs will be necessary to fill the cavity without cramming it. Then put the crumbs in a basin, add as many eggs as will bind them thoroughly, allow a teaspoonful of thyme and the same of marjoram to three ounces of crumbs, add salt and pepper in proportion, and allow enough finely minced suet to represent one quarter of the whole mixture. Blend all together, put it into the Jack, and sew up the cavity. Put the Jack into a well-buttered baking-dish. The Fish can be coiled round as Izaak Walton advises, “ with the spit through his mouth and out at his tail,” or, as in these days, with the tail fastened to the mouth. A Jack will take twenty minutes to bake. It must be moistened two inches deep with a fish broth made of other Freshwater Fish, and must be continually basted with the same. The broth should be strong, and can be made of any Freshwater Fish; even dace can be used for it. About a pint and a half of broth will be wanted, and an onion and some herbs should be simmered in it. A baked Jack is best served on the fire-proof dish in which it has been cooked. Eels.—Sir Henry Thompson and other authorities attach great value to the nutritive properties of Eels. Eels should be killed by a heavy blow on the back of the head, and the head should then be at once cut off. It is neces- sary to skin them after death, as Eels are covered with an oily104 POND FISH substance between the skin and the flesh. The skinning is easily managed by turning the skin of the Eel down after the head is cut off and drawing the skin off like a stocking. Then clean the Eel thoroughly, wipe the inside well, blanch it in boiling water for five minutes, and remove the oily coating with a clean cloth. As Eels are rich it is better to cook them as simply as possible. They should be divided into fillets, and the fillets simmered in fish broth, rolled in oatmeal or flour, and fried a golden-brown ; or wrapped in buttered paper and broiled on a gridiron. Tartare sauce should be served with Eels. Collared Eel.—Many people prefer this way of serving an Eel cold. Stew the skinned Eel in strong fish broth till it is tender enough for you to take out the backbone. Roll up the Eel, and tie it with tape into shape, add the backbone to the broth, and stew slowly till the Eel is quite cooked and tender. Then put it between two dishes with a weight on the top. Reduce the broth to a jelly. When the Eel is cold remove the tape, and garnish with the jelly. A sliced onion, and plenty of herbs, with two sliced carrots, should flavour the broth. Hand tartare sauce in a boat. Eel Jelly. —This is most nutritious, and suitable for an invalid. Skin and clean three small or two large Eels. Cut them in pieces, and put them in layers into a jar with a few morsels of butter on each layer. Sprinkle each layer with cayenne, salt, and pepper. Cover the jar closely, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water. Keep the water boiling round it for two hours. Then set the jar in a cool place for the jelly to get cold and firm. Spitchcock Eels.-—(Family Recipe.)—Strip the skin of the Eels down to the tails, but not off. Clean, wash, and dry the Eels. Make seasoning with pounded mace and nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a little shred thyme. Rub the Eels well with the seasoning, and slip the skin back over them. Roll up each Eel, and between each rolling put a few bay leaves. Butter your gridiron, lay the Eels on it a good distance from the fire. Half an hour will broil them. When done cut the Eels in such pieces as you like. (N.B.—This recipe is meant for small Eels. No sauce is mentioned).STEWED EELS io5 Stewed Eels.'—(Family Recipe.)—Cut the Eels into pieces about three inches long. Have ready some good broth, into ■which you have put a bunch of sweet herbs tied up in muslin, two anchovies, and a teacupful of white wine, such as Madeira. Take out the herbs before you put in the Eels. Let them stew gently fox' three-quarters of an hour in the broth. Just before yoxx serve them up put in a little cream, and thicken the broth a very little. I give these two x'ecipes exactly as they were written nearly a century ago. But in these days they might be modernised with the same excellent results. For, to quote from the “ Knight and the Lady Jane ” in the Ingoldsby Legends— “ If you chance to be partial to Eels, then—crede experto— trust one who has tried— Have them Spitchcock’d or Stew’d, they’re too oily when fried.” Conger Reis are sea fish, and range in size from twenty pounds to a very great weight. The turtle soup of many a restaurant and hotel is really made from Conger Eel. SHELL-FISH. The great drawback to the enjoyment of all kinds of Shell-fish is that it is impossible to kill them without cruelty. Lobsters, indeed, can be killed by running a long narrow- bladed knife diagonally into the tail at the third joint from the end, thus severing the spinal cord; and fishmongers have some method of killing Crabs. But as a rule all kinds of Shell-fish are either boiled alive or roasted alive. An ex- perienced and humane cook told me that she always put a good dash of vinegar into the boiling water with the Lobsters, for it “took their breath,” and, as she believed, killed them at once. All Shell-fish are best boiled in fresh sea-water, but if this cannot be had Lobsters and Crabs must be put into a quart of fast-boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and cooked for twenty or twenty-five minutes. (If cooked longer the flesh will be stringy.) To put “a fine lively lobster” into wai’m water and boil it up gently, as some cookery books advise, is revolt- ing barbarity, although the authors may salve their consciencesio6 SHELL-FISH by tlie fancy that molluscs cannot feel pain. For Shrimps and Prawns the water must be fiercely boiling, and as the putting in of the Shrimps lowers the temperature the water must be stirred with a red-hot poker. In this way Shrimps will be cooked in six minutes, Prawns in eight minutes. Oysters, Scallops, Mussels, and the American Clams all belong to the same family of Shell-fish, and are attached to the rocks on which they live. Clams only come to England in a bottled or tinned state, either by themselves or cooked with fat pork as “ Clam Chowder,” but when eaten fresh they are considered a great delicacy. When the Pilgrim Fathers landed on the New England coast in 1620 they learnt from the Red Indians the art of roasting Clams on the shore in ovens made of hot stones, and this method is universal at American “ Clam bakes,” or picnics, now. Oysters attach themselves to the rock by a muscular pro- jection called a foot. The “ beard ” of an Oyster is its row of gills, and, by stewing, a good deal of valuable liquid may be extracted from “ beards.” In following American recipes for the cooking of Oysters it must be recollected that their Oysters are very much larger than our Natives. American cooks do not use breadcrumbs for their gratins, but substitute powdered “crackers ” or biscuits— a method which might often be adopted with advantage here, using the plainest Captain’s biscuits. Oysters.—All over the world Oysters rank highest among Shell-fish. In this country Natives are in season from the first of September to the first of May. Natives, which are small Oysters with delicate shells, have been cultivated at Whitstable and Colchester from very early times, and the natural Oyster-beds still remain. On other parts of the coast there are establishments for Oyster culture. An Oyster grows at the rate of one inch in diameter every year till the shell is three inches broad. After that period its growth is much slower, and an adult Oyster is believed to be from seven to ten years old. Oysters for sauce are generally foreign, and can be obtained all the year round. There are countless ways of cooking and serving Oysters, but the simplest methods are generally the best. Perhaps107 OYSTERS Oysters are most enjoyed in the numerous creeks and inlets of Sydney Harbour, where it is the custom for residents to take out a small hammer, a supply of bread and butter and of freshly gathered lemons, and to make their luncheon of the oysters on the rocks. One of the best methods of eating Oysters belongs especially to England, viz., the serving of uncooked Oysters before the soup at dinner. From four to six Oysters are allowed to each person. They should be skilfully opened the moment before dinner (a badly-opened Oyster is tasteless), and opened on the hollow or deep shell, not on the flat shell, so that the liquor of the Oyster may be preserved. The Oysters are arranged on plates in readiness for the guests, and brown bread and butter and quarters of lemon are handed. Pepper and vinegar spoil the flavour of Natives. Fried Oysters.—This is a favourite dish at Delmonico’s celebrated restaurant in New York. Dip each freshly-opened Oyster in flour, then in beaten egg, and then in very finely powdered biscuit or “ cracker ” crumbs. Fry in very hot suet for four minutes, drain the Oysters well, and serve in a hot dish on a hot folded napkin. A very little salt should be sprinkled over the Oysters. Roasted Oysters.—With a small pair of tongs put un- opened Natives between the bars of the grate, mouths out- wards, and deep shells downwards. They will be cooked as soon as the shells open wide. Pull them out with the tongs, lay them, a few at a time, in a large hot fire-proof dish, and serve at once. Repeat the process as often as required. At bachelors’ parties Oysters are often cooked in this way in the dining room, and handed straight from the fire to the plate. Scalloped Oysters.—The great secret of this dish is to use plenty of Oysters, and to use Natives only. Open carefully two dozen Oysters, give them a scald in their own liquor over the fire, wash them in the same liquor free from grit, and beard them carefully. Cut each Oyster in half. Butter the scallop- shells, and shake some fine breadcrumbs into them. Fill them with alternate layers of Oysters, breadcrumbs, and tiny bits of butter. Strain the oyster liquor and pour some gently into each shell. Grate a thick smooth layer of breadcrumbs overio8 SHELL-FISH tlie top of each shell, and put a little hit of butter upon that. Place the shells in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn them till the tops are lightly browned all over and all round. This should be in a quarter of an hour. Serve as hot as possible. Scalloped Oysters are more easily cooked in a fire-proof dish, following the above recipe. It is quite as good and much less rich than the recipes which add cream, flour, anchovy- essence, eggs, wine, lemon-juice, parsley, shallot, cayenne, and even nutmeg, to the simple mixture of Oysters, breadcrumbs, and butter. Stewed Oysters.-—This is an American dish, and in America it is sent up in a tureen, and helped into soup-plates. Open two dozen Oysters as carefully as possible, and save all the liquor. Strain the liquor, and wash the Oysters in it till they are free from grit. Lay them in a very clean stewpan, strain the liquor a second time and heat them slowly in it. When the Oysters are just beginning to simmer take them out with a slice, and take off the beards. Add to the liquor a quarter of a pint of cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a saltspoon- ful of salt. When this boils stir in from one to two ounces of butter smoothly mixed with at least a teaspoonful of flour. Continue stirring till the sauce is thoroughly smooth and all the ingredients well mixed together. How put in the Oysters, and let them remain by the side of the fire till they are very hot. On no account let them boil. The Oysters require so little cooking that if kept for four or five minutes nearly, not quite, simmering, they will be ready to seiwe. If too much stewed, or if allowed to boil, they will be hard. Stir a little lemon-juice quickly into the stew as you take it from the fire. Seiwe at once in a hot tureen, and hand croutons of fried bread -with the stew. Oyster Patties.—Sauce Oysters can be used for these, and two should be allowed for each patty. Line some small patty- pans "with puff paste rolled thin, fill each with raw rice to preserve the shape, and either make covers of the paste or leave the patties open and cover the Oysters at the last with fried breadcrumbs. Bake the empty patties in a brisk oven. Beard the Oysters, blanch them in boiling water, taking careOYSTER PATTIES 109 that they do not boil. Cut them in small pieces and keep them hot. Make as much sauce as you can with the liquor and beards. Mix very smoothly a teaspoonful of flour and an ounce of butter, put it in a saticepan, shake it round and round over a gentle fire for two or three minutes. Add a dust of cayenne, a very little salt, and by slow degrees half a gill of cream. Give this a boil up, add the Oyster liquor strained through muslin, then the Oysters, and keep almost at a boil for two minutes. Fill the patty-cases with the Oysters and their sauce, and either replace the covers or grate breadcrumbs over the top. Oyster Patties can be served hot or cold. Oyster Sauce.—In this, again, plenty of Oysters should be used, so that no guest should have to search the sauce-boat for one in vain. The right allowance is eighteen Sauce Oysters to a pint of sauce, nine to half a pint. Put the Oysters with all their liquid and their beards into a small saucepan, and add enough fish broth to cover the Oysters with liquid. Heat over the fire just to boiling point, but on no account let it boil, or the Oysters will be as hard and as tasteless as bits of white leather. Keep the pan at the side of the hot plate for two minutes only. Drain the Oysters, take off their beards, and divide each in half. Strain the liquid, and thicken as usual with butter and flour for the sauce. Some cooks add cream, but this makes the sauce too rich; milk and cream together is even worse, and fish broth is much better than the chablis sometimes used. Another way to determine the quantity of Oysters is to allow one, if small, to each person; if the Oysters are very large half of one may be enough. Scallops.—These, although not Oysters, belong to the same family. They are somewhat coarse in flavour, but are said to contain a great deal of nourishment. They may be scalloped like Oysters, first removing the beards and black paid;. Or they may be simmered in fish broth for twenty-five minutes, drained, and cooled. Make a white sauce with part of the broth, and with the rest moisten as much breadcrumb as there is of Scallop meat. Cut up the Scallops, put them with the crumbs in a well-buttered fire-proof dish, moisten with the sauce, and scatter crumbs over. Bake in a moderate oven till thoroughly heated, and brown the surface before serving.SHELL-FISH I ] o Scallops are much tougher than Oysters, and take a much longer time to cook. They are sometimes simmered in milk and Avater and used as a garnish for such fish as cod. Or Scallops can be cooked, mixed with bechamel sauce, and used for patties. Or they can be dipped in butter and fried like Oysters. The great thing in cooking Scallops is to do them slowly (as they are naturally tough), and never to let them boil (or they will be unbearably tough). Scallops make a good cold mayonnaise. For this, warm them in fish stock till it is nearly boiling, then let them simmer at the side of the fire for tAventy minutes. Be careful that they simmer as gently as possible. Set them to get cold. Then arrange the Scallops round a pile of celery Avith one or two Tomatoes sliced at the last moment. Serve mayonnaise sauce in a boat. Scallops are in season from October to May. Mussels.—Mussels have sometimes been found tmwhole- some, and even poisonous, but as yet experts have not succeeded in discovering the reason. May one who is not an expert suggest that the cause lies in the food of the Mussels ? Oyster’s and Mussels, unlike Lobsters and Crabs, cannot forage for their food, but must depend on what is brought to them, either by the tide or by other means. On a rocky shore, Avhere Mussels are closely wedged together in large beds below high-water mark, they may be seen as the tide rises opening their shells Avide in expectation not only of the food Avhich the breaking Avaves Avill bring them, but of the fresh supply of sea-water on which they depend for the aeration of their blood. Such Mussels as these, living far from human habitations and impure rivei’s or estuaries, cannot surely be unwholesome. But Avhen Mussels are cultivated in the brackish waters of estuaries, or where rivers flow into inlets of the sea, they may very probably feed on decomposed vegetable matter instead of the fresh seaweed brought in by the tide. In this case Mussels must be unfit for food. Mussels are used as bait by fishermen to an enormous extent, for it is said that there is no fish in the sea Avhich cannot be tempted by a Mussel. Tons of English Mussels are thus used, and the home supply is supplemented by great quantities of Mussels “ made in •Germany.” These imported Mussels, as Avell as the EnglishMUSSELS ixi Mussels cultivated for bait, are very large, often nine inches in length, and are thus easily avoidable. English sea Mussels, when fit for eating, at three years old, are not more than two inches long. The shells should be thoroughly scraped and scrubbed, changing the water several times to get rid of all sand and grit. The Mussels must be opened with an oyster knife, for it spoils them to put them in a warm place in order to make them open. The so-called beards of Mussels are the horny threads, looking like seaweed, by which the shell is attached to the rock ; these are not edible, and must be carefully removed. Mussel Soup may be made like Oyster Soup, and Mussel Sauce like Oyster Sauce ; indeed, it is said that much of the sauce served at restaurants has more to do with Mussels than it has with Oysters. Lobsters, Crabs, Prawns, Shrimps, and Crayfish all belong to the same family of Shell-fish. Lobsters.—English Lobsters are not in season during the months of January, February, and March, but Lobsters can always be had, as enormous quantities are imported from Norway. These Lobsters travel alive, packed in wet seaweed, and arrive in perfect condition. The largest English Lobsters weigh from eight to twelve pounds, but the great American Lobsters exported to England in tins often weigh as much as twenty-five pounds. Excellent Lobsters are caught off the north coast of Ireland, and these, by arrangement with a friendly fisherman, can be sent freshly-boiled by Parcel Post. It is a great pity that there is not a close time for Lobsters during May and June, for during these months the female Lobster is full of eggs or “coral.” This coral is only used for decoration of dishes, and might well be dispensed with in view of the fact that each bead of coral represents a future Lobster. But such is the demand for coral that a female Lobster is more valuable than a male, although the flesh of the male is better in flavour. The eggs of the Lobster, like those of all this family of Shell-fish, are not fully developed when hatched ; they adhere for a time to the fine hairs with which the “ swimmerets ” or paddles of the mother are fringed. In this state the Lobster is said by fishermen to be “berried,” and commands a good price.11 2 SHELL-FISH Lobster Sauce.—In making this simple sauce two things only are necessary—that is, to use plenty of Lobster, carefully made melted butter, and nothing else. But there are several faults, too often seen in Lobster Sauce, which must be avoided. One is chopping the Lobster too small, or, worse still, pounding it. Another is using the contents of the head of the Lobster. A still more common fault is the addition of anchovy sauce, flour, and milk or cream. Lobster Sauce should taste of nothing but the Lobster, softened and moistened by the melted butter, and it is quite rich enough without milk or cream. It should not be a half solid mass, nor a thin wretched liquid with scanty morsels of Lobster floating in it, but a creamy bed in which the pieces of Lobster are plentiful and distinct. To secure this result, chop the meat of the tail and claws of a good-sized boiled Lobster into pieces, but not too small. Half an hour before dinner make half a pint of melted butter; put the Lobster into the saucepan with the melted butter, add a pinch or two of coral, a dust of cayenne, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Set the saucepan in the bain-marie till wanted, and then turn out the Lobster sauce into a hot sauce-boat. Lobster Cutlets.-—This is one of the few ways in which Lobster is good when hot. Pick out the meat from the Lobster, and put the cream and the coral into a basin by themselves. Cut up the meat as small as possible, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, working in half an ounce of butter. Add the Lobster cream and the coral, season with pepper, a little salt, and a dust of cayenne, and mix all together with two tablespoonfuls of cream. Form into cutlets (some cooks stick in a bit of the claw or feeler to look like bone). Egg and breadcrumb the cutlets twice, and fry a golden-brown. Dish on a folded napkin, with a garnish of fried parsley. If the Lobster paste is not sufficient for the number of cutlets required, or if it is thought too rich, a little panada may be very thoroughly worked into the mixture after pounding the Lobster. These cutlets are good cold, coated with aspic jelly, and dished on chopped aspic. Lobster Salad.—Pick the meat from the body and claws of the Lobster, and cut it in pieces. Lay the pieces of LobsterLOBSTER SALAD ”3 round a dish, and fill the centre with crisp fresh lettuce leaves. If for luncheon it is much better to hand the sauce in a boat, but if the sauce has to be mixed with the Lobster and lettuce only do so at the very last moment, or the lettuce will look sodden and flabby. For the sauce : Put a dessertspoonful of unmade mustard into a basin with a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and the very hard-boiled yolks of two eggs (twenty minutes will not be too much to boil them). Add drop by di’op, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, bruising all well to a paste with a clean wooden spoon. Throw in the yolk of one raw egg, and work vigorously, adding oil little by little till you have a couple of gills (or two cofEeecupfuls) of sauce. Finish now with a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, pass the sauce through a perforated strainer, and keep it in the basin on ice till wanted. Lobster Butter.—Lobster Butter is most useful for spreading on canapes, or even on sandwiches for afternoon parties or suppers. A Lobster, as Wyvern points out, pays a double debt in this way, for one quantity of butter may be made with the meat, and another with the pounded shell, as the shell of a Lobster is quite enough to flavour the butter as well as to colour it. To make Lobster Butter in Wyvern s way first pound the meat to a paste in a small mortar, mixing a little butter with it. Pass it through a hair sieve, and see that this as well as the pounding is thoroughly done, so that there will be no granulated pieces of meat in the butter. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan over a low fire, mix the pounded meat in it, and as soon as it appears to have absorbed the butter (having been well stirred during the process) take it out, let it get cold, and mix it with cold fresh butter in the proportions of about half and half. Wyvern adds to the Lobster paste whilst in the saucepan a very little powdered mace. For the shell butter proceed as above, and when the shells are thoroughly pounded mix them with an equal quantity of butter. Melt the mixture in the bain-marie, and pass it through a fine sieve or tamis-cloth into cold water, in which it at once congeals. It is then skimmed off, and mixed with as much fresh butter as it will colour nicely. Of course, if some of the coral is pounded also, both these Lobster Butters will be brighter.SHELL-FISH ii4 Lobster Canapes.—Cut some thin slices of stale brown or white bread, prepare the Lobster Butter as above, reserving some nice pieces of meat unpounded. Cut out of the bread some neat oblongs two inches long, and one inch and a half broad. Spread them with the Lobster Butter, putting a piece of Lobster meat on each. Dust with pepper (Nepaul pepper is best), and dish in a ring with mustard and cress in the middle. Or cut your slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out rounds two inches across, and fry in butter. Spread the rounds with Lobster Butter, put a piece of Lobster meat on each, garnish with sliced gherkin or a row of capers round the Lobster, and dust with Nepaul pepper. Crabs.—A Crab is excellent when baked in Wyvern's way. Baked Crab.—Take all the flesh from a medium-sized Crab, tear it to shreds with two forks ; put this into a stewpan over a low fire, and moisten with a gill of good sauce made upon a fish-broth foundation. Cut up an ounce and a half of butter into small squares, and add these by degrees, mixing in lastly one-third of the whole bulk of nicely-mashed potato. Work altogether smoothly, and season with salt and pepper. Butter the shells, fill them with the mixture, smooth over the surface with a palette-knife dipped in hot water, dust over with grated Parmesan, baste with melted butter, and bake for a few minutes in a moderate oven. Serve when the surface has slightly browned, the shells laid on a hot napkin. This recipe can be carried out in a fire-proof dish instead of shells. And two ounces of well-boiled rice, with about four ounces of sifted breadcrumbs, may be substituted for the mashed potato. Dressed Crab.—Pick out all the meat of a boiled Crab, and wash and dry the shell. Mix well with the meat a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of either oil or cream, and a little pepper aud salt. Put the meat in the shell, and serve cold, garnished if liked with the claws of the Crab. Partan Pie.—This is a Scotch dish, Partan being the name for a Crab on the east coast of Scotland. Pick the meat out of a boiled Crab, clean out the shell, and mix the meat with a little salt and pepper and a pat of butter. If tooPARTAN PIE IT5 liquid, add breadcrumbs. Put all back into the shell, strew breadcrumbs over, brown before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake for a few minutes in the oven. Dust with cayenne, and serve hot. Of course several small Crabs can be used, and some people like the addition of a little vinegar. Crab Salad. —Have a medium-sized boiled Crab sent in untouched by the fishmonger. Dress it yourself as follows : Crack the claws and pick all the meat out of them and the breastplate, shred it, put one-third of this on one side, and mix with the other two-thirds in a bowl the liver and cream of the back. Add sauce exactly like that given for Lobster Salad, only with the addition of a teaspoonful of minced chives. With a pint of aspic jelly fill a round border mould, setting it in layers over ice with hard-boiled egg-yolks, balls of green butter (see Fancy Butters), and turned olives alter- nated therein. Finish by turning out the border, fill the centre with the dressed Crab masked with the shredded meat that you saved, garnish over all with a fine lace-work of garden cress, and a ring of golden lettuce-leaves round the outside of the border. Hand the rest of the sauce in a boat. [ Wyvern.] Mayonnaise Souffle of Crab.—This is intended for a summer luncheon dish. Slightly butter the lining of a souffle- case, pin a buttered band of paper round rather high, and season the eatable part of a boiled Crab with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Whip some aspic jelly, and put a little in the bottom of the lining. Make a bed of Mayonnaise Sauce on the top of the aspic, put in the Crab, then some more chopped aspic; it should be about three inches above the limner. Stand it in the ice-box till wanted. Put the lining in the case, sprinkle with fried breadcrumbs, and serve with a plate of chopped aspic jelly apart. [Mrs. C. W. Earle.] Prawns and Shrimps.—Prawns and Shrimps should never be bought picked, as a great deal of flavour can be extracted from the pounded shells. It is easy to arrange with a fish- monger on a shrimping coast, such as Messrs. Leadbetter, of Fleetwood, to send “ rough ” Shrimps or Prawns (as those which are unpicked are called) freshly boiled by Parcel Post. Shrimp Croustades.—Choose small round dinner rolls which have been baked in tins and will stand upright. Scoop i 2n6 SHELL-FISH out all tlie crumb, and fry the cases so obtained a golden yellow colour in melted butter. Drain them. Now pick enough cooked Shrimps to fill them, cut them into quarter-inch pieces, toss them in melted butter, with pepper and salt, and a pinch of mace if liked. Then pound them in a mortar, moistening them with sufficient white sauce to bring them to the consistency of thick cream, seasoning as before. Now fill the cases, shake a little breadcrumb over the surface of each- place them on a buttered baking-tin, and heat them for five minutes in the oven. Serve as soon as the tops take colour. The shells, roughly chopped and boiled in water -with an ounce of onion, seasoning, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs, will provide a good liquid for the white sauce. [Wyvern.] Lobster, Crab, or Prawns can be seiwed in the same way. Shrimp Patties are excellent, if the Shrimps are prepared as above, and so are Shrimp Rissoles if the Shrimps are minced. Prawn or Shrimp Butter.—Take twelve Prawns or half a pint of Shrimps, and pick them, saving everything but the heads. Pour a jug of cold water over the shells and meat, and when quite clean pound meat and shells together in a mortar, using an ounce of butter to assist the pounding. When thoroughly pounded pass the paste through a hair sieve, being careful that no hard particles remain in it. Pass it from the sieve into a bowl of cold water. Skim the paste off the water, drain it, and add it to another ounce of butter with the butter bat, seasoning it with a very little salt, white pepper and mace if liked. Make the Prawn Butter into little pats, and set it on ice. [Wyvern.'] Poached eggs at breakfast are very good if a pat of this butter is sent up melting over each. The eggs should be placed on squares of fresh toast, or fried bread. Shrimp Fritters.— Shell and pound half a pint of boiled Shrimps in a mortar with an ounce of butter and a little fish broth. When quite worked to a puree, incorporate it with the frying batter (see Frying1), and drop the mixture by dessert- spoonfuls at a time into the frying-basket or pan. Let the fritters cook till they turn a rich golden colour, and are as crisp as biscuits. Then drain them, dry them, and serve on a napkin with crisply-fried parsley. \f\Vyvern.~\SHRIMP TOASTS TI7 Shrimp Toasts.—These are almost as good a savoury as Shrimp Fritters. Pick and pound the Shrimps and Shells as for Prawn Butter. Then for a quarter of a pint of picked Shrimps take a tablespoonful of butter and melt it in a small saucepan over a low fire. Put in the Shrimps and stir them about for some minutes so that they may absorb the butter. Lay them on hot fried toasts, over which the pounded extract of the shells has been first spread. Dust over with Nepaul pepper, and a little mace if liked—the Shrimps are generally salt enough—and serve quickly. The remains of Lobster or Crab can be used in the same way. Curry of Prawns or Shrimps.—Allow a heaped-up table- spoonful of picked Shrimps for each person. Serve the Curry either in shells or in little cases made of pastry. The quanti- ties given are for six small shells. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan over a low fire, fry in it a dessertspoonful of finely-minced shallot. (Minced onion can be substituted if the flavour of shallot is too strong.) Let this colour nicely, then add a dessertspoonful of curry powder and a small teaspoonful of curry paste, and cook slowly with the butter and onion. Stir for five or six minutes, keeping the fire very low, then put in the Shrimps and two tablespoonfuls only of broth or milk. How let the contents of the pan fry very gently, continually stirring to prevent catching and to encourage absorption. When the Shrimps are all separated from each other, all moisture absorbed, and a sort of powderiness obtained, they are ready. Have the shells or cases heated, pile the Shrimps in each, and serve at once. To make a real Wyvern curry a heaped-up teaspoonful of grated cocoanut and a saltspoonful of green ginger should be added with the curry powder and paste. But so many people dislike these ingredients that I have omitted them. Shrimp Sauce.—This is made like Lobster Sauce, using- plenty of Shrimps, say half a pint. Prawn Salad with Cucumber.—Cut up and cook three dozen fillets of cucumber. Stop cooking them as soon as you can pass a trussing needle into each fillet easily, and drain them on a sieve. Let them get quite cold, and cut them into quarter-inch squares. Pick twelve large prawnsSHELL-FISH nS from their shells, and cut them into similar pieces. With these fill six darioles, mixing cucumber and fish fairly. Melt half a pint of aspic jelly, put it in a howl over ice and whisk into it half a gill (two tablespoonfuls) of oil and a dessertspoonful of vinegar, thus making a mayonnaise collee, adding the yolk of one egg to colour it. As soon as it attains the consistency of smooth cream pour it immediately into the darioles, setting the prawn and cucumber squares in it over ice. Turn them out when required, and dish in a circle with a garnish of cress or curled endive. \_Wyverni] Of course shrimps can be substi- tuted for prawns, using a larger quantity. Cockles.—Cockles, unlike oysters and mussels, are found buried in sand, and not fixed to rocks. Cockles are provided with a large and very elastic foot, which enables them to hide quickly in the moist sand, or if frightened to reappear and escape with great rapidity. Cockles are found on most sandy shores, and in very remote times were even more eaten than they are now, if we may judge by the mounds of their shells called “ kjokkenmoddings ” still existing in many countries. Cockles are found in great abundance on many parts of the British coasts; the shore near Swansea produces enormous quantities, and at Starcross, near Exmouth, there are “ cockle- gardens,” where the Cockles artificially reared are said by the proprietors to have a finer flavour than those found in the sands. But Morecambe Bay, on the Lancashire coast, is best known, not only for its Cockles but for the rusks run by those who gather them. On that shore the tide recedes from five to seven miles, leaving “ shifting sands ” so treacherous that if the most experienced of the guides retained by the Ducby of Lancaster were to draw a chart of the safer tracks they would all have changed before the ink on his paper was dry. It is said that no “ Cockier ” there ever dies in his bed—he is either swallowed up in the quicksands or drowned by the “ bore-wave,” that is, a huge wave which, sweeping in silently and without warning, covers the sands with incredible rapidity to the depth of seventeen feet. Yet such is the fascination of that shore that those who “ follow the sands,” as the cocklers call it, never care for other fishing. The Cockles are found a little below the sand, and areCOCKLES n 9 jerked out with pronged forks. This is done in perfect silence for fear of frightening the Cockles away. When the Cockles are brought home they must first be laid in salt and water for a few hours, so that they may clean them- selves of any sand they may contain. They must then be put on a clean dish, and boiling water must be poured over them to make them open. This may have to be repeated once or twice, as the Cockle shells are always very tightly closed. When open, the fish must be taken out and cooked. Cockles make good soup, and are excellent stewed like Oysters or in patties. Fish broth is of course needed in cooking them, and this is best made by using some of the Cockles themselves instead of fish cuttings. Cockles are out of season from April to September. Periwinkles.—As this book is not written for such stern economists as the lady who, when a sick relative was ordered Oysters and Champagne, thought that Periwinkles and Ginger- beer would do as well, and wondered that the patient sank from exhaustion, it may seem superfluous to explain how Periwinkles should be cooked. Still, as they can only be gathered between tide-marks, children at the seaside delight in collecting them for school-room tea, and it is not every cook who knows how to prepare Periwinkles. They should be well washed in several waters, left to soak in fresh water for an hour, and then washed again. Shake the Periwinkles well to make them draw back into their shells, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water (sea water if possible) and boil them hard for twenty minutes. Periwinkles are eaten, according to the time-honoured fashion of street boys, by pick- them out of their shells with a stout pin. Whelks are good for nothing but bait. Crayfish.—The natural history of the Crayfish is so curious and interesting that Professor Huxley devoted a whole volume to its discussion. Crayfish are like small freshwater Lobsters, from three to four inches in length, and greenish- brown in colour. They are found in many English and Irish becks and rivers, as well as in most parts of the world where the water is not too cold for them, as it is even in Scotland. Yet although Crayfish cannot bear cold, they are so intolerantSHELL-FISH 120 of sunshine that they are only found where a river runs east and west. In these cases the banks protect the Crayfish from the sun. Crayfish are armed with powerful pincers, so powerful that when lying concealed in the burrows which they make for themselves during winter they can seize a vole or water-rat and hold its head under water till it drowns. No food comes amiss to the Crayfish ; indeed, as a French naturalist remarked, “ ils meconnaissent les plus saints devoirs,” for the males eat the females, preferring the time in May and June when the victims are loaded with eggs. In France Crayfish are regularly cultivated for food, and in Paris alone from five to six millions of Crayfish, or JEcrevisses, either of home production or “made in Germany,” are consumed every year, at a cost of ten thousand pounds. Crayfish are more plentiful in England than is generally supposed. Not long ago two gentlemen caught nine hundred in a single evening, in the Thames and Severn Canal in Gloucestershire. When caught, Crayfish must be left for a few hours under a tap of running fresh water, so that they may clear themselves of sand. Then put them into boiling water, and boil them for twenty minutes. They can be cooked like shrimps or prawns, and their flavour is very delicate. Fricasseed Crayfish.—(Family Recipe.)—Put the Crayfish with their shells on into boiling water, boil them for one hour. Take them out, and set them to get cold. Then pick them. Take three tablespoonfuls of cream, a little mace, cayenne pepper, and salt, and one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Make this all hot together, stir well, put in the Crayfish, and let it boil up. Serve very hot on toast. RECHAUFFE DISHES OF FISH. Kedgeree or Khitchri.—Take a pound of cold cooked fish, and divide it into small pieces with a fork. Clean and sift six ounces of rice. Put a gallon of water into a pan with a dessertspoonful of salt. Add the juice of half a lemon to preserve the whiteness of the rice. When the water is at a really galloping boil throw in the rice, and stir it round with a wooden spoon. Watch the clock for ten minutes,I 2 I KEDGEREE OR KHITCHRI stirring every now and then. After ten minutes test a few grains by pinching them between the finger and thumb. As soon as soft, which will probably be in twelve or thirteen minutes, stop the boiling instantly by a dash of cold water. Immediately take the pan off the fire, and drain off every drop of water from the rice. Leave the rice in the hot dry pan in front of the fire, cover it with a folded cloth instead of the lid, shake the pan now and then, and after ten minutes the rice will be dry and the grains separate. (If the Kedgeree is wanted for breakfast all this can be done overnight.) Boil three eggs hard, and with a fork crush the whites and yolks together into a coarse mince. Melt three ounces of butter over a low fire, stir in the rice with a wooden spoon, add the pieces of fish, and season with pepper and salt. Lastly, shake in the crushed hard-boiled egg, and empty the whole into a very hot dish. \_Wyvern.'] If onion is liked fry a very finely minced shallot in the butter till it becomes yellow. In India a teaspoonful of turmeric is added before the eggs in order to colour the rice yellow. But turmeric has a spicy flavour which is not generally liked in this country. Some cooks cut the eggs into small pieces instead of crushing them. Fish Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Chop small any cold fish left from yesterday’s dinner, stir together a little butter, flour, and milk, mix with some of the fish sauce remaining from dinner, season with pepper and salt, and boil all together. Make the mixture into round flat cakes, egg and breadcrumb them and fry in boiling suet. Serve without sauce. Fish Cutlets.'—To about a pound of any cold fish left at dinner cut up into a coarse mince, add four ounces of crumbs soaked in fish boilings or fish stock, blend together, moistening with a breakfastcupful (half a pint) of warm sauce also left at dinner, with the yolk of an egg mixed into it. Stir the mixture over a low fire to thicken, then spread it upon a dish to set and get cold during the night. It should be half an inch thick when set. Next morning cut out the Fish Cutlets with a cutter, egg and breadci-umb them, and fry in boiling suet. [ Wyvern.) Boulettes Of Cooked Fish.—Any fish, the flesh of which can be divided into separate flakes, answers for these boulettes.RECHAUFFE DISHES OF FISH 122 Separate the flakes as soon as the fish comes from the dining- room and whilst it is still warm. Fill the hollow sides of the flakes with the fish sauce slightly thickened, or have ready some minced shrimps, or lobster, or scallops, mixed rather thickly in white sauce. Leave the flakes to set all night. In the morning egg and breadcrumb each, and fry. Fish Pudding’.—Pick a pound of cold cooked fish free from bones and skin. Use the bones and fish boilings to make a pint of broth. Season with pepper and salt, adding a sliced onion if liked, and strain. Take of cold cooked potato the same bulk you have of fish, and boil three eggs hard. Empty the fish and potato into a roomy bowl and mash them together, adding the cold fish sauce left from dinner, and moistening the mixture with the broth. Crush the eggs with a fork and add them, dusting in a teaspoonful of white pepper and the same of salt mixed together (also, if liked, a saltspoonful of mace). Then stir in two ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Lastly, add a tablespoonful of milk. When all is blended together put the pudding in a buttered mould, set this in a pan with boiling water round it half the depth of the mould, and heat the pudding thoroughly in the oven. Then turn it out carefully, shake some fine crust raspings over it, and serve. [Wyvern.~\ Baked Fish.—To a pound of cold cooked fish allow one- third of its weight in breadcrumbs, and season well with, pepper and salt. Make a fish broth to cover it, adding a sliced onion if liked, and six black peppercorns. Stir in a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, set the mixture to boil, and then simmer for fifteen minutes. Thicken the broth, stirring in any remaining fish sauce. Arrange the fish and crumbs on a buttered fire-proof dish, moisten well with the sauce, strew raspings over, and heat up in the Dutch oven. KB.—When fish has to be re-warmed the skin should always be removed as soon as the fish leaves the dining-room. It is a good plan to remove the bones also. If the fish is Salmon this is particularly necessary, as the skin is oily, and the fat part near the fins should be removed also. Fish Custard Pudding’S.—These are excellent either by themselves or served with cold Salmon. Butter six dariole123 FISH CUSTARD PUDDINGS moulds, and sprinkle finely-minced dry parsley upon the butter. Make enough ordinary custard, using salt and pepper instead of sugar, to fill the moulds half full. Pick any cold cooked fish free from bones and skin, cut it into a coarse mince, and dust into it a saltspoonful of spiced pepper. Fill the moulds loosely with this, then pour the custard in, allowing time for it to settle well, and adding more custard by degrees till the moulds are full. Put a round of buttered paper over each, place them in a saute-pan with enough boiling water round them to poach them nicely. When set, take off the papers, and turn the custards out. A saltspoonful of anchovy sauce may be stirred into the custard before filling the moulds. Cooked Fish, served in shells.—No. 1. Ala Carmelite For six scallop shells take four ounces of cooked cod, two hard- boiled eggs, two fillets of anchovies freed from oil, and two gills of fish broth, or milk flavoured with anchovy. Turn the last to a sauce with half an ounce of flour and the same of butter, bring to the boil, and stir in a tablespoonful of tomato conserve ; mix well, and pass through a hair sieve. Now butter the shells, chop up the cold fish and the hai'd-boiled eggs, put this mince into a bowl, season with salt and white pepper, add a pinch of mace (if liked), cut up the anchovy and mix with the mince, and then moisten with enough of the sauce to bring the mixture to the consistency of rather fluid jam. Fill the shells with this, smooth their surfaces, shake over each some finely- sifted raspings, and dot a few little pieces of butter over them. Bake, but do not allow the mince to dry up whilst baking. The mince should come to table moist and thoroughly hot. No. 2. Cold fish, served in shells. Almost any cold cooked fish can be used, or mixed fish, such as salmon and whiting, sole and shrimps, or turbot and lobster. Cut up the fish in small pieces, add to it one-third of its bulk of cold cooked mushroom cut in small squares, and for six shells allow a dessertspoonful of minced pickled gherkins. Put all into a bowl, moisten with a tablespoonful of salad oil, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, season with pepper and salt, and leave it thus marinading for a quarter of an hour. Now take the mixed mince out of the bowl, and dress it in another bowl with mayonnaise sauce. Fill the shells with the mince,124 RECHAUFFE DISHES OF FISH forming it in dome-shape and masking the surface with mayonnaise. Decorate each dome with strips of anchovies, crumbled white and yolk of egg, and garden cress loosely shaken over all. Serve on a flat dish surrounded with water- cress. \Wyvern.~\ Rechauffe of Salmon a la Parmentier.—Take six ounces of cold cooked Salmon, and pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and two of bread panada. Pass all through a wire sieve into a bowl. Now stir in two whole eggs and the yolk only of another. Work all well together with a wooden spoon, and finish with a tablespoonful of cream. Butter a round pint border mould, and fill it with the mixture. Steam gently till nicely set, and mask with maitre d’hotel sauce. Pill the centre of the border with small new potatoes moistened with maitre d’hotel butter. Or, if new potatoes are not in season, substitute potatoes shaped like plovers’ eggs or olives. The potatoes must be steamed; if boiled they will crumble. [ Wyvern. ] Cutlets of Cooked Salmon.—Take the same quantities as in the last recipe, and proceed in the same way. When the cream has been added to the Salmon and eggs well beaten together, butter a dozen cutlet moulds, fill them with the mixture, tapping them on the table to make it fill the moulds properly, and smoothing the surfaces with a palette- knife dipped in hot water. Lay the cutlets in a wide saute-pan or baking-dish upon a sheet of white paper folded in four, pom- hot water about an inch deep, set it on the fire, let it just boil, and then at once reduce to very gentle simmering, keeping the lid of the pan on. The cutlets will be poached in about thirty-five minutes. Have ready on a dish a mound of mashed potato well sloped outwards. Turn out the cutlets, arrange them round the mound after masking them with sauce verte. For this, thicken half a pint of fish broth, colour it a pale green with spinach colouring, reduce till it coats the spoon well, and finish with a little minced chervil, parsley, and tarragon, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Bunches of watercress may be arranged in the dish. Or, when the salmon cutlets are in the pan, add hoiliug water round them to a little less than half their depth, pushI25 CUTLETS OF COOKED SALMON the pan into tlxe oven, and simmer them gently till cooked firmly. Let them get cold. Turn them out of their moulds upon a flat dish set over ice, mask them with white cliaud- froid glaze (coloured pink with lobster coral if liked) ; when the glaze has set, trim off any glaze which has run over the edges of the cutlets, and dish them in a circle. Fill the centre with a lettuce salad, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs, broken aspic jelly, and moulds of tomato puree, or boutons rouges. (See Tomatoes.)126 CHAPTER IV. SAUCES. A well-considered and well-made Sauce will give a character of its own to any dish, and two or three of such Sauces will raise the quality of a dinner. Sauces can be good and distinct in flavour without being elaborate, and without expensive adjuncts. But to succeed in making Sauces it is absolutely essential that the materials should be of the best, that directions should he carefully followed, and that the quantities, and the time required for using them, should he exactly measured. Sauces should be made on the gas-stove, as the heat must he carefully regulated. Sometimes a good Are is needed, at others the flame must he reduced to a mere flicker. Many Sauces can he made some hours before they are wanted—perhaps even the day before. They are warmed in the bain-marie when required. One important point to remember is that in adding eggs to a Sauce it must be done off: the fire, or the Sauce will curdle. Another point, equally important, is in thickening the Sauce to add the Sauce to the thickening and not to stir the thickening into the Sauce. The usual allowance for a roux is an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour to a pint of broth. Cream makes Sauces too rich, and should not be used except in one or two cases, snch as for Bread Sauce and Bechamel Sauce. Instead of using cream it is much better to beat up the yolk of a raw egg in a tablespoonful of the Sauce put into a cup, and to stir it into the Sauce, off the fire, just before serving. Many cooks make far too much Sauce; half a pint is generally enough for four people, sometimes for six. It is much better not to follow the advice given in most cookery books and to “ wring ” Sauces127 SAUCES through a tamis-cloth. Soups must be passed through a cloth, and jellies must be strained through a jelly-bag, but a hair sieve and a few finely-perforated tin strainers answer much better for Sauces. The articles used in Saucemaking should be kept by them- selves, and ought to be used for nothing else. The pans can easily be marked by tying a piece of pink tape to the handles. The sieves can be marked on their wooden frames, and the smaller things are easily kept apart. For Saucemaking the cook will require a small mortar and pestle, a small pair of scales, a quart stewpan, three small saucepans in sizes for the bain-marie, a flour dredger, a pepper- mill for black pepper, and another, distinguished from it in some way, for white pepper, two earthenware basins, and a third of a different colour to be used for Fish Sauces only, two block-tin perforated strainers of different sizes, and a pointed strainer (all three with handles), a hair sieve, a wire sieve, two plated teaspoons, dessertspoons, and tablespoons, at least three small wooden spoons of different sizes, and a small salt- cellar. Before the cook begins to make a Sauce she must see that everything she is likely to require is ready to her hand. Many of the requisites can be most conveniently used if placed on a low shelf within easy reach. Broth will be wanted, and in most cases this can be made from any scraps and trimmings of meat, or scraps and giblets of poultry or game. For all Fish Sauces fish broth, made from fish cuttings, must be used. For some Sauces a little wine is necessary; either Marsala or Sauteme is quite sufficient. A supply of the best flour, well dried and sifted, butter, and eggs, must be at hand. In using the eggs the germ should always be removed. Besides these main requirements the cook will need onions, parsley, shallots and herbs, either dried or fresh according to the time of year. Fresh herbs should always be used if possible. She will also need mustard and mustard flour, mush- room ketchup (freshly made if possible, see Mushrooms), tomato conserve, good French vinegar, anchovy-vinegar, tarragon vinegar, spiced or herb pepper, lemons, and red currant jelly. Only a small quantity of these articles need be provided, but128 SAUCES they will probably all be wanted. One or two small knives, and an onion knife, should be at hand for mincing vegetables, and a plated saltspoon of the size used in the dining-room. Kitchen saltspoons hold double the proper quantity. A little pounded and sifted sugar must be ready in a cup if the Sauce is to be white, for a pinch of sugar is considered an improve- ment in all White Sauces. Melted Butter.—Many years ago a French valet, when visiting with his master at English country houses, used to delight in teaching cooks the real method, as he called it, of making Melted Butter. He used to say: “ Melted Butter is “ Melted Butter; it is not flour and water and butter, nor flour “ and milk and butter, but it is the butter and nothing else.” The valet’s recipe was: For one pint of Melted Butter use half a pound of fresh butter. Put it in a saucepan on one side of the hot hearth, or on a very slow fire. Beat the butter with a wooden spoon as it melts. Continue beating till it is even and white, like cream. Simmer it for five minutes, beating all the time. This recipe still holds its own, but many people, in spite of the knowledge that a little of a good thing is better than a great deal of a bad thing, would consider it too expensive. Melted Butter is supposed to be the standard English Sauce, but it is very seldom well made by English cooks. Everyone knows the story of the bride who entreated her cook not to put lumps into the Melted Butter, but everyone does not know how to prevent the presence of lumps, or how to avoid the paste-like flavour given by the raw flour to the Sauce. Both these defects are due to the same cause, that is, the stirring of the uncooked flour into the Sauce, instead of previously cooking the flour and butter together. Besides, it is very wasteful to stir in the flour, for lumps must form, and when they are strained off they are good for nothing, and can only be thrown away. For one pint of Melted Butter (sauce blanche), take two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a pint of liquid. The liquid may be warm water, or milk and water, or broth made from scraps of meat, giblets of poultry, or fish cuttings. Or the broth in which peas, carrots, celery, onions, or leeks have been boiled may be used. Of these liquids broth, or eau de cuisson from vegetables, areMELTED BUTTER 129 much the best. Water makes Melted Butter poor, and milk, particularly in summer, is apt to turn sour in a few hours. To make Melted Butter with these ingredients, first melt one ounce of the butter at the bottom of a saucepan. When it is quite melted over a slow fire, add the flour, working it well with a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth paste. Reduce the fire, and cook the roux gently for a few minutes, but do not let it colour. Now add by degrees whichever liquid has been selected, and the saltspoonful of salt. Increase the heat under the pan, and work the Melted Butter well with the wooden spoon till it is soft and creamy. Have ready a hot sauce-boat, and pass the Melted Butter into it through the tin strainer. Just as the sauce reaches the sauce-boat add the second ounce of butter. This, melting of its own accord,, will give the fresh buttery flavour which the sauce requires. If these directions of Wyvern's are strictly followed the Melted Butter will be excellent, and will not resemble (as Melted Butter too often does) the paste used for sticking pictures into scrap-books, only in a weaker form. For Melted Butter to be used as a basis for fish sauce it is quite worth while to spend a few pence in buying “ fish cuttings.” If the Melted Butter seems too thick add a little more of whatever liquid has been used. Several simple variations of Melted Butter can be made. One, which is particularly good with vegetables, is made by beating together in a cup the yolk of a raw egg and the juice of a lemon, and adding it, off the fire, to the Melted Butter just before serving. Parsley-and-butter is easily made by throw- ing blanched and minced parsley into the sauce just before serving. Allow at least a tablespoonful of parsley to half a pint of Melted Butter. Or beat up the yolk of an egg in a table- spoonful of butter warmed till it melts, add a teaspoonful of finely-minced tarragon, and put, all off the fire, into the Melted Butter at the last moment before serving. This is the French Sauce d VEstragon. For a simple fish sauce use fish broth as the liquid, and when the Melted Butter is finished stir into it a tablespoonful of shrimp puree and a teaspoonful of anchovy puree for half a pint of sauce. KSAUCES 130 A still better sauce is made by flavouring a pint of milk by boiling up in it two ounces of onion and a tablespoonful of parsley previously blanched for five minutes in scalding water. When well flavoured, strain the milk through muslin, and stir it by degrees into a saucepan in which a roux of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour have been well mixed. Thicken gently by bringing the mixture to the boil, strain, and add just before serving a tablespoonful of minced parsley, a dessert- spoonful of chopped, garden cress, and a teaspoonful of minced chives and chervil. Use enough spinach colouring to tint the sauce a pale green, and give a squeeze of lemon. [Wyvem.~\ Fillets of sole, whiting, or haddock are excellent stewed gently in half this quantity of sauce. Thicken the rest of the sauce, sharpen it with a few drops of vinegar, beat up the raw yolk of an egg in a little of the sauce, off the fire, add it, and pour the sauce over the fish. Sauce Blonde is a glorified form of Melted Butter, in which the liquid used is always good broth. Sauce Blonde is the foundation of Maitre d’Hotel Sauce, Sauce d la Poulette, Soubise Sauce, Sauce Milanaise, the brown and slightly sharp Sauce Robert, and of hot sharp Sauces. For Maitre d’ Hotel Sauce, which is so good with'white fish, potatoes, and many vegetables, add to the Sauce Blonde at least a tablespoonful of parsley, blanched, dried in a cloth, and then minced. Finish, off the fire, with the yolk of an egg well beaten up in a little of the Sauce Blonde, and squeeze into it a few drops of lemon-juice. Or melt an ounce of maitre d’hotel butter in half a pint of Sauce Blonde. Sauce d la Poulette is a richer, but a very useful sauce. Add one pint of chicken broth made from giblets and bones to the usual roux, season lightly -with pepper and salt, and stir well for a quarter of an hour. It will now be a thin white sauce. Have ready two tablespoonfuls of chopped button mushrooms stewed in milk. Put the sauce in the bain-marie, and add first the strained and well-beaten yolks of two eggs, then a pat of butter, and then the mushrooms, with a little of the milk in which they have been stewed. Soubise Sauce is of two kinds, white and brown. For the former, blanch two three-ounce onions in scalding water for131 MELTED BUTTER five minutes, ancl mince them small. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir the onion mince in it till it seems about to colour, keeping the fire low. Then take the saucepan off the fire and dilute the onions with half a pint of Sauce Blonde. Boil, skim, reduce a little over the fire again; then pass the whole through the sieve, and put the onion puree back into the saucepan to be re-heated in the bain-marie. For the brown Soubise, do not blanch the onions. Slice them, and fry very gently till they are nicely coloured. Use brown sauce instead of Sauce Blonde, but with these exceptions cook the brown Soubise like the white. Sauce Milanaise is a refined soi‘t of Soubise, excellent with many dishes both of vegetables and of meat. Put four ounces of onions blanched and cut up into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and a pinch of sugar. Add a tablespoonful of previously boiled rice or pearl-barley, and moisten with half a pint of broth. Let all cook slowly, and when the onions are done add a tablespoonful of finely grated mild cheese (Parmesan if possible). Stir the mixture, pass it through the sieve, and add it to half a pint of Sauce Blonde. The original Sauce Robert has been so much spoiled by chefs in their attempts to improve it (as they suppose) that the original Sauce has been almost lost sight of. It is very good with veal, stewed ox-tail, pork, or duck, and is suitable for a grill. Chop up in small squares two ounces of onion, throw the mince into a saucepan with an ounce of butter. Let it take slight colour, then add an ounce of flour by degrees, work it well with a wooden spoon, then add half a pint of broth, half a saltspoonful of salt and the same of mignonette pepper, and a pinch of sugar. When thoroughly mixed, simmer for twenty minutes, pass the sauce through the strainer, catch up all lumps, and at the last moment stir in a teaspoonful of tarragon or anchovy vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of French mustard. The only variation in this original Sauce Robert which should be allowed is to omit the French mustard and to substitute for it a tablespoonful of Marsala and a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup. This makes a good Sauce Robert for cutlets. If it is not thought dark enough, add a few drops of Parisian essence. k 2132 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT. These are often liked with boiled fish, or with veal cutlets or any dish of meat which is insipid in taste. There are several varieties, from which I shall select three of the most useful. Half an ounce of glaze should be added to all these Sharp Sauces. Sauce Piquante.—Mince half an ounce of shallot as finely as possible, and put it into a quart stewpan with one ounce of butter and four tablespoonfuls of Orleans vinegar. Stir over a moderate fire till the vinegar is reduced, which is indicated by the butter becoming clear. Unless this were done the flour wbicn must next be added would not amalgamate. When the vinegar has been thus absorbed by the shallot mix one ounce of flour into the butter, stir for four minutes, then add half a pint of broth., a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, and a few drops of Parisian essence to give colour. Simmer for a quarter of an liour, adding a tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley, and the same of chopped gherkins. Boil up once, skim, and serve. Poivrade Sauce can be quite simply made, if fashionable and elaborate additions are not desired. Put into a quart stewpan half a pint of vinegar, half an ounce of finely-minced shallot, two ounces of onion, an ounce of carrot and of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay leaves, four cloves, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper. Cook all together till the vinegar is half absorbed, add half a pint of broth, boil up once, and simmer for twenty minutes. In another saucepan mix an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, stir for four minutes over the fire, pour the contents of the stewpan by degrees upon the roiu\ using the pointed strainer, colour, skim, strain, and serve. Sauce au Pauvre PLomnie.—Pry an ounce of minced onion in an ounce of butter to a golden brown, and then pour in half a pint of broth made from scraps. Boil up, simmer for a quarter of an hour, strain it by degrees into another saucepan upon a roux of half an ounce of butter and the same of flour. Woi’k well with a wooden spoon, and add a saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of mignonette pepper, and a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar. For Mustard Sauce to eat with herrings see page 78.SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT i33 Sauce Hollandaise.—This is one of the best and most popular of all sauces. It must not be confounded with the simple Dutch sauce (page 139), which is really only melted butter and lemon-juice. Hollandaise is a custard sauce. It is difficult to make well, but quite worth the trouble it demands. Of all the recipes which I know for Hollandaise I have found none so satisfactory as Gouffe’s, condensed by Wyvern. But, to ensure success, the recipe must be strictly followed in every particular. Take four ounces of butter, and divide the whole into six equal portions ; next reduce two tablespoonfuls of vinegar on the fire with a saltspoonful of salt and pepper blended, till about a teaspoonful remains. Strain, and add to it two tablespoonfuls of water and two yolks of eggs carefully freed from white. Put this over a low fire for a minute, stirring it well with a wooden spoon; be careful not to let it boil. Take it off the fire, add one of the six portions of butter, stir till melted, put it on the fire for a minute, stir well, take it off again, and continue this process till, bit by bit, the six portions of butter have been worked into the two eggs you originally put in ; add a little water now and then to prevent its curdling. The sauce should be as thick as good mayonnaise sauce, or very thick cream. Being made at a very low tem- perature Hollandaise can never be served “piping hot’’like other sauces. It must be put into a warm sauce-boat, either a silver or a plated one, but the sauce-boat must be only warm ; if it is hot the sauce will curdle. Sauce Bearnaise, a popular sauce for roast beef and similar dishes, is made exactly like Hollandaise, only omitting the reduced vinegar at the beginning, and adding just before serving a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. For Bread Sauce see Chapter VIII.—-Refer also to Fried Breadcrumbs and Brown Gravy. The remains of Bread Sauce make excellent panada for Quenelles. Horseradish Sauce.—This, called in France, Sauce Baifort, is generally liked -with hot roast beef, and is served hot, although it is really better when cold. It is good with such fish as herring, or mackerel, and especially with freshwater fish. For hot Horseradish Sauce, grate as finely as possible aJ3 4 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT coffeecupful of the Raspings of a small root of Horseradish, and simmer the grated pieces in half a pint of common broth. When done, thicken the broth as you would a custard by adding over a very low fire the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Season with a little white pepper and salt, and serve in a boat. For Cold Horseradish Sauce add to the coffeecupful of grated root half a pint of mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Set it on ice if possible, as it ought to be served ice-cold. Of course cream can be used, if preferred to oil, in making the mayonnaise. Espagnole Sauce and Veloute Sauce.—These are the two staple Foundation Sauces, or Sauces Meres of French cookery. Espagnole Sauce derives its name from the ham with which it was formerly flavoured. Nowadays, no flavouring is allowed in the first composition of Espagnole Sauce ; flavouring is entirely omitted, and is added to the foundation later, according to the special sauces selected. Espagnole Sauce can be made very elaborately and very expensively, but for ordinary use quite a sufficiently good Espagnole can be prepared from broth flavoured with plenty of vegetables and strengthened by the addition of an ounce of glaze to every pint of broth. For this, as well as for a simple Veloute Sauce, I recommend Wyverns method. Butter a two-quart stewpan with two ounces of butter, lay in it four ounces of finely-sliced onion, the same of carrot and of turnip, half an ounce of sirred celery, and a bunch of chopped parsley (not using the stalks). Moisten with a gill of stock, and cook over a low fire till the vegetables are turning reddish- brown. Now add a quart of warm stock made from scraps, bring to the boil, simmer for three-quarters of an hour, skim, strain and thicken. Simmer, with the pan only three parts covered. Add one ounce of glaze, boil up, stir well whilst boiling, skim, take off all fat, and strain into a bowl, passing it through a hair sieve. Keep the bowl in a cold larder, and warm up the foundation Espagnole in the bain-marie as required. From this foundation any good brown sauce can be prepared. Espagnole Maigre is made in the same way, only that the glaze is omitted, and eau de cuisson from vegetables is used instead of meat broth. For fish sauces, use fish broth,135 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT with, fish glaze, and a glass of sauterne. If the Fish Espagnole is too light in colour add a few drops of Parisian essence. Veloute Sauce, the foundation of the numerous white sauces used in French cookery, is rather more troublesome to make, hut if the recipe is strictly followed the cook will be repaid by the result. The process of making Veloute Sauce is, for the sake of clearness, divided into six stages. (1). Take one pound of fowl giblets, and half a pound of veal scraps. Cut up the veal, scald the giblets and cut them also into small pieces. (2). Slice into rings three ounces of onion, put them into one ounce of butter melted at the bottom of a stewpan, and then add the veal and the giblets. Moisten with a gill of white broth made from poultry or veal scraps. Simmer over a low fire, but do not let the veal and giblets take colour. Cover them with cold water, or with white broth if possible, and bi’ing slowly to the boil. (3). Go on now to make a clear broth, seasoning lights with salt and white pepper. If this clear broth is carefully prepared and skimmed you should obtain at least two pints of colourless liquid. Strain it, and keep it warm. (4). In another saucepan melt two ounces of butter over a low fire; when it is melted add by degrees two ounces of flour and stir with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Pour in the warm broth by degrees, increase the heat, and work the broth and the roux well together with a wooden spoon. (5). Stir over the fire till the sauce boils, then reduce the heat, and let the sauce simmer gently for one hour, carefully taking- off any fat that may rise to the surface. (6). At the end of the hour strain the veloute through a hair sieve into a bowl, and set it aside in a cold larder. Bechamel Sauce is made in the same way, with the addition of two ounces of sliced fresh mushrooms, put into the stewpan with the veal and giblets, and a gill of cream as a finishing touch. Veloute Maigre is of course made without meat. Cut up six ounces of onions, three of carrots, and half an ounce of celery. Fry in two ounces of butter over a low fire, for five minutes only. Add two ounces of flour and fry for five minutes more. Now moisten with a pint of milk and a pint of water, season with a quarter of an ounce of salt, and half that quantity ofSHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT 136 mignonette pepper. Adel a small bunch of herbs. Stir well, bring to the boil, and simmer for an hour. Strain the sauce into a bowl and set it in the larder. The water in which a fowl has been boiled with vegetables, thickened as for veloute, simmered, skimmed, and strained, makes a good simple Veloute Sauce. From the foundation of well-made Veloute Sauce any good White Sauce can be made. For Oyster Sauce or any Fish Sauce use fish broth, and add a glass of sauterne. But, as with JEspagnole Sauce, the foundation must be most carefully and accurately prepared. Mayonnaise Sauce.—In this most popular sauce it is above all things necessary that the oil should be of the best quality, and the eggs perfectly fresh. New-laid eggs are not so suitable as those laid a day before the Sauce is wanted, but in no case should the eggs be more than twenty-four hours old. Unlike most Sauces, Mayonnaise is begun dry. Put into a soup-plate a teaspoonful of mustard powder, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of mignonette pepper. Bruise these thoroughly together with the back of a plated spoon. Now add a little oil, and work the whole to a paste, dropping in the oil, very patiently, by degrees. When the mixture is moist, beat gently into it the yolks of two raw eggs one by one, freed from the germ and from every particle of white. Continue beating, and drop in plenty of oil. Judge by youi’ eye when you have made enough sauce. Then add exactly one dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. The moment the vinegar is added the sauce will become creamy. Work it well with the spoon, and pass it through the tin strainer into a cold sauce-boat. Of course cream can be used instead of oil, and if sufficient cream cannot be spared for the whole Sauce begin the Mayonnaise with oil, and add a dessertspoonful of cream at the last moment. Most English cooks spoil Mayonnaise by adding too much vinegar; it should only be in the proportion of one-eiglith compared to the quantity of oil. It is by far the best plan to measure the dessertspoonful of vinegar and to add it at the last moment, thus ensuring a creamy and not an acid sauce, but many cooks adhere to the mistaken custom of working the vinegar into the sauce with the oil or cream. Eveiy form of Mayonnaise musti37 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT be served perfectly cold. To ensure this, set the bowl of sauce over broken ice as soon as the Mayonnaise is made, which should not be very long before it is wanted. Sauce Mayonnaise Gollee is made without eggs and with aspic jelly. It is particularly good with chicken salad or fish salad. Put into a bowl half a pint of half-melted aspic jelly. If the weather is warm, set the bowl over ice. With a small whisk whip into the jelly half a gill of salad oil. The Sauce will soon look creamy. Add a little more oil, whipping all the while, till the Mayonnaise is like smooth cream, and finish with a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Tartare Sauce, although very like Mayonnaise, is made some- what differently. It should be made in a cool larder, and the bowl should be set over broken ice during the process. Put into the bowl two raw yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a small saltspoonful of salt. If French mustard is not liked, use mustard flour. Mix all well together, and then begin to add the oil, being most careful to add it drop by drop. Blend the oil thoroughly with the eggs, and go on, adding a very few drops of oil at a time, till you have used a gill of oil, and the Sauce has become smooth, thick, and creamy. Now stir in a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and add the minced herbs which give to Tartare Sauce its distinctive speckled green appearance. These should be a teaspoonful of minced chervil, of burnet, of gherkins (if liked), and of either minced chives or onion threads, with half a teaspoonful only of minced tarragon. Sauce Ravigote is made by adding to mayonnaise a ravigote— that is, equal quantities of minced chervil, chives, burnet, and tarragon. Mayonnaise, Tartare Sauce, and Ravigote, can all be coloured green by adding the green juices squeezed from the herbs used, mixed with a little spinach colouring. Do not use the juice of parsley, for its taste is acrid and dis- agreeable. If the directions which have been given are carefully followed, there will be no difficulty in producing good Sauces, whether Melted Butter or Sauce Blonde, with the various Sauces of which they form the foundation, or the descendantsSHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT 133 of the two Sauces Meres, the brown Espagnole and the white Veloute, or the varieties of Mayonnaise. Even Hollandaise will not present insuperable difficulties, and Bread Sauce can be depended upon as a complete success. In other parts of the book I have given the appropriate Sauces with various dishes of fish, meat, game, and poultry!; a method which I hope may save trouble. One or two Sauces, often badly made, may he described here. Anchovy Sauce.—The usual method of making this Sauce is to stir anchovy essence into melted butter, a method which generally gives an unpleasant flavour of fish oil to the sauce. A far better, but much more troublesome, plan is to take two anchovies from the tin, drain them (see page 96), scald them, and wipe them free from every trace of oil. Take out their spines, mash them, and pass them through the sieve. Add the pulp of the anchovies to half a pint of good veloute sauce, heat it up in the bain-marie, and as you are about to serve it stir into it, off the fire, or beat up, with a little of the veloute in a cup, the yolk of one raw egg. Serve the Anchovy Sauce very hot in a boat. This quantity is enough for eight persons. Simple Mushroom Sauce.—Make a gill of broth with Mushroom peelings and half an ounce of glaze. Have ready a roux of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, pour upon this by degrees half a pint of broth, skim, add the gill of mushroom broth, boil up, and strain through a tin strainer into a hot sauce-boat. Of course more mushroom peelings can be used. Orange Sauce for a Duck, either wild or tame.—This sauce must be served cold, and the quantity is sufficient for one duck. Take a quarter of a pound of red currant jelly, a glass of burgundy or port, the juice of two Seville oranges and of one lemon, and the zest or peel of one orange grated, with one small lump of sugar. Melt the jelly, dissolve the flavoured sugar in it, add the wine and juice, season with salt and cayenne pepper, stir, and pass the sauce through a strainer. Sauces for Vegetables.—Melted Butter is liked with many vegetables, but, as I have said elsewhere, it should always be handed in a boat, and not poured over the vegetables. Maitre d’Motel is another favourite Sauce, particularly with potatoes.SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT 139 Sauce Milanaise is excellent with turnips, and Sauce Poulette is liked with beans. The cold Sauce d'Argenteuil is particularly suitable to asparagus. A good variety of Melted Butter to eat with vegetables, particularly with globe artichokes, boiled celery, salsify, cardoons, celeriac, or asparagus, is the Dutch beurre fondu. For this, melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan, add a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Let this settle over the fire, and before the butter has quite liquefied take the saucepan off, and let the heat of the saucepan complete the melting. In this way the butter will be creamy, and not like oil. Pour the sauce free from sediment into a very hot sauce-boat, and see that the plates for the vegetables are thoroughly hot. For some vegetables a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar is liked instead of the lemon- juice—for instance, with globe artichokes. L'Uxelles, or Fines Herbes Sauce.—Chop up six ounces of fresh mushrooms, six ounces of fresh chervil and parsley mixed, and two ounces of chives or shallot. Then put the minced shallot into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter and a seasoning of salt and black pepper. Fry this on a low fire for five minutes, then add the minced mushrooms and parsley, and fry for five minutes more. Put the mixture in a jar for use. D’Uxelles Sauce is made by adding a teaspoonful of this mixture to half a pint of Espagnole Sauce. It makes an excellent masking for cutlets of any kind. Or cutlets can be coated with it, wrapped in paper and broiled. Or they can be coated with the sauce, rolled in breadcrumbs, and fried. It is a mistake to add bacon, lemon-juice, or egg to E'TJxelles Sauce. SWEET SAUCES. Wine Sauce.—Make half a pint of melted butter, add a glass of sherry, and a tablespoonful of castor sugar. Simple Mousseline Sauce.—Take the yolks of four eggs, a glass of sherry, the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of pounded sugar. Whisk over the fire till it is a creamy froth, and either hand the sauce in a boat or pour it over the pudding. Do not whisk after the sauce becomes soft and creamy, or it140 SWEET SAUCES will look curdled. Fruit syrup can be used instead of wine, only in that case the sugar must be omitted. Jam Sauce.—Dilute two tablespoonfuls of jam with a gill of hot water and a liqueur glass of kirsch, brandy, or ram, according to the sort of jam used. Stir well over the fire so as to moisten the jam thoroughly, then strain into a hot sauce- boat. For strawberry or raspberry sauce a squeeze of lemon as a finishing touch is an improvement. For Oronoco Sauce or Brandy Butter, see Plum Pudding. For Italian Pudding Sauce, see Chapter XXI.CHAPTER Y. ROASTING—BOILING-BRAISING—STEAMING—JUGGING —BROILING & GRILLING—FRYING—SOME MINOR MATTERS. Roasting1.—Many cooks imagine tliat Roasting a joint and baking it in tbe oven are the same thing, and that the same resnlt is obtained by the direct heat of the open fire, and the reflected heat from the sides of the oven. As to this error, the wise words of Mr. Buckmaster, the great authority on English cooking, ought to be a sufficient correction. He says, “ The “ essential condition of good Roasting is constant basting, and “ this the meat is not likely to have when shut up in an iron “ box.” For Roasting it is absolutely necessary to use not only the jack but the screen lined with polished metal which protects the fire from draughts and keeps in the heat. The joint should be wiped over with a clean damp cloth, to remove any traces of the handling which it must have met with on its way to and from the butcher’s cart; but it must on no account be washed. The fire must be carefully made up, and the joint (hung on the hook of the rotating jack) placed close to it for from six to ten minutes, according to the thickness of the meat. This hardens, or “ seals ” the surface, and prevents the escape of the juices of the meat, whilst the inside of the joint is kept tender. After this “ sealing,” draw the joint further away from the fire. See that the fire is good and equal throughout the Roasting of the joint; let the thickest part of the meat hang rather below the centre of the fire ; and be most careful not to cook it too fast. Baste the meat at least every ten minutes. For this it is important to begin basting with broth or stock till the jointROASTING 142 yields its own dripping—that is, the melted fat which runs from it. Never put extra fat on or round the joint “to make dripping.” Meat should never be served with thickened gravy, but the gravy which comes from it should be light-coloured and clear. To ensure this, as soon as the joint is done pour all the fat from the dripping-pan very slowly into a basin. The sediment of the gravy will remain, and this should be diluted, if possible, with a cupful of broth from the stock-pot. Hot water may be used if no broth can be had, but the result -wall not be nearly so good. Stir this gravy well, and pour it round the joint in the hot dish. If this rule is not carefully attended to tbe gravy is sure to be greasy. Some people dredge the joint with a little flour just before it is done, so as to give the surface a crisp brown look. If flour is liked, the cook must be most careful that none of it falls into the dripping-pan or the gravy will be thickened and spoiled. In roasting a loin of mutton or a sirloin of beef, or any joint with outside fat, the fat should be carefully protected by a buttered paper tied over it. If it is really impossible to roast before an open fire, the oven must be used, but the meat so cooked will always have what is called “ an oveny taste.” The joint must lie on a grating above the baking-dish, and the dish must have a compartment, wider than itself, filled with hot water. If the dish rests on the floor of the oven the fat falling from the meat is sure to burn. This not only spoils the dripping, but makes a most disagreeable smell in the house. If the fat falls into the hot-water compartment these dangers are prevented. As in Roasting, the joint should, after a few minutes, be drawn to a cooler part of the oven, or placed on the oven-shelf. "When basting is possible it should be done every twenty minutes. The gravy must always be poured round the meat; if poured over the joint the crisp surface is spoiled. Roast meat should be placed on a very hot dish, and served at once. It is difficult to give the exact times for roasting meat, as joints differ in weight and size, and tastes, as to under-done or well-done meat, differ still more. The rough calculation generally used for well-done meat is twenty minutes for every pound of a thick piece of meat, such as a leg of mutton or a sirloin of beef, and fifteen minutes over. Thus for a leg of mutton weighing sevenM3 ROASTING pounds two hours and a half would be required. For a thin piece of meat, such as a neck of mutton, fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes over should he allowed. For veal and pork twenty-five minutes to each pound and fifteen minutes over is not too much. If the thickest part of the meat gives to the pressure of the finger the joint is done ; if it resists, more cooking is necessary. The eye of the cook is generally the safest test; if she sees the steam from the meat drawing to the fire and the joint looking as if it had begun to smoke it will be sufficiently done for most tastes. But experience is the only guide, based on practice and observation. It must be recollected that fresh meat takes longer to cook than meat which has been hung, and that all meat takes longer to cook in winter than in summer. Frozen meat should be thoroughly and slowly thawed by hanging it in some place of ordinary temperature, away from any fire; and joints of mutton must be hung shank end down- wards or the juices will drain away. After thawing, the sooner the meat is used the better, although in severe weather it is better for hanging for a day or two. When the fire has to be made up whilst Roasting a joint, be careful to avoid smoke by drawing the live coals to the front and putting the fresh supply on at the back of the grate. Boiling*.—It is a well-known fact that meat loses less weight in Boiling than in any other process of cooking, and it is equally true that Boiled meat is more easily digested than meat cooked in any other way. But Boiled meat is often dis- liked because it is tasteless and often underdone. Neither of these objections need exist at all. Vegetables, such as onion, carrot, turnip, celery, parsley, and thyme, should be boiled, as a fixed rule, with all boiled meat or poultry, whether they are served with it or not. The vegetables will quite prevent any tastelessness. Many people shudder at the sight of a Boiled leg of mutton, such as that so often seen on board ship, when the squeak of the meat as it comes in contact with the knife is a true prophecy of the tough and half-cooked condition of the joint. But the reason is that the meat has been cooked “ at a gallop,” so that the inside is hardly done at all, and the whole joint is extremely tough. There is no use in boiling meat “ to rags,” but it should be slowly and thoroughly cooked. See144 BOILING that the water is really boiling before the joint is put in, and allow two tablespoonfuls of salt to every gallon of water. There must be enough water to thoroughly cover the joint. The water will, of course, “go off the boil” when the meat is put iu ; watch till the temperature has risen again to boiling point, and then keep the water boiling hard for five minutes. This “seals” the juices of the meat; just as, in roasting, the joint is put close to the fire at first. After five minutes, either check the boil with sufficient cold water to reduce the heat to about ISO0 (just bearable to the touch), or draw the pan to the side of the stove. Let it simmer, the water just moving, or what cooks call “ alive,” with an occasional bubble at the edges. If the surface of the water is still and “ dead,” it is too cold, and the meat will be dry and stringy ; if the surface is covered with bubbles it is too hot, and the meat will be leathery, tasteless, and hard. Skim off all scum as it rises from the meat, and when it has been got rid of add the vegetables and herbs. It is a good plan to tie the joint, or whatever is boiled, neatly into shape with tapes. The time of simmering depends on the weight of the joint or bird, but for fresh meat twenty minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes over is not too much. Simmer- ing cannot be properly done on a range, as it is absolutely essential to keep up an even temperature during the whole process. On a gas-stove this is easy, and all that the cook has to do is to keep the water covering the joint, replenishing the loss by evaporation with hot water. A celebrated dish at some very recherche London dinners is a leg of pre sale mutton (that is, from a sheep which has been pastured on salt marshes near the sea), simmered for seven hours in champagne ! The water in which a joint has been boiled is weak stock, and is most use- ful in many ways. One of the best is to make a puree with the vegetables which have been boiled with the joint. In Boiling Salted Meat the method is quite different. Salted meat, to be tender, must be put on in cold water, and cooked as slowly as possible. The cold water takes out some of the salt, and this allows the meat to swell a little in boiling. A piece of salt beef weighing five pounds will need at least four hours’ simmer- ing aftei' it has been brought to the boil. A smoked tongue must first be soaked in cold water for twenty-four hours toBOILING J45 soften it, and then simmered till it is quite tender. A “ green ” tongue, that is, one fresh from slight pickle, should not be soaked at all. It should be put on in lukewarm water and simmered for four hours. If a piece of Salmon is boiled, always put scraped Horseradish in the water. Braising".—Braising, a name which is derived from the French word braise, or live coal, is really cooking between two fires, and cannot he done too slowly. Braising is a combination of roasting and stewing, assisted by broth and plenty of vegetables. It is well to trim the joint to be braised, and to tie it into shape with tape, using all trimmings for the broth. Fowls, too, must be neatly tied into shape. A regular Braising- pan has an air-tight lid with a sunken top, so that live coals can be placed in the hollow, but any tolerably deep stewpan which has a cover answers perfectly. The pan must be large enough to hold the meat or fowl to be braised easily, and to allow quite two inches of clear space all round it. For instance, if a fillet of beef weighing four or five pounds is to be braised, the cook must first melt three ounces of butter or good dripping at the bottom of the pan, and put in a carrot, an onion, an otmce of celery (all sliced), a sprig of marjoram, parsley, and thyme (or a teaspoonful of each when dried), mignonette pepper, and salt. Lay the piece of beef on this bed, put the cover on the pan, and let the meat cook in its own steam on the stove for fifteen minutes, shaking the pan once or twice to keep the meat from sticking. Then turn the beef, add a pint and a half of good broth made from the trimmings and from fresh bones, place a buttered paper rather larger than the pan over the meat and vegetables so as to keep them from burning, and put the cover on. Fill the cover with live coals, and let the meat simmer. Every twenty minutes lift up the paper, and baste the meat with the gravy. When done, the gravy must be strained off, skimmed, and poured round the meat in a very hot dish. The vegetables braised with the meat can be served with it, but they are useful for the stock-pot, and freshly-cooked vegetables are nicer. Some cooks brown the meat by turning it in the butter first put into the pan ; others brush it over with a little butter and brown it in the oven for ten minutes after Braising. But the essential point in Braising146 BRAISING is the slow cooking of the meat in its own juices, supplemented by a strong broth made of vegetables and meat or bones. The time for Braising of course varies with the size of the meat. Forty minutes to the pound is not too much for thick pieces of meat. A beef-steak will require from an hour and a half to two hours ; a fowl, braised in broth made partly from its own giblets, will take two hours or thereabouts; and a young pigeon will require about forty minutes. The cooking between two fires—that is, with top and bottom heat—is essential in Braising. Steaming’.—Steaming meat has somewhat the same effect as Braising it, for in both cases the meat is cooked in its own vapour and juices. But, unlike Braising, Steaming requires little expenditure in fuel and little skill on the part of the cook. The meat is put into a hermetically-closed pot, or steamer, with boiling water under it and all round it. The water must be kept at a fast boil, or the meat will be sodden, owing to an insufficient force of steam. Steaming is a slower process than boiling, but it is infinitely superior. All the juices of the meat are preserved, nothing is wasted, and the flavour of whatever is steamed, whether meat, fish, or poultry, is far better than when it has been boiled. Steaming is specially applicable to fish, and to any poultry intended for in- valids. It is a great mistake to partly roast meat or poultry before steaming it, for this method gives an undecided and un- pleasant flavour. Jug’g’ing’.—For the introduction of this process into England, after it has been for ages familiar to the natives of Southern India, we have to thank Wyvern. It is an admirable method of cooking cutlets, beef-steak, and boned and flattened poultry or game. Whatever is jugged is extremely tender, and full of excellent gravy. Indian native cooks manage Jugging between two soup-plates sealed together with strong paste ; but here it should be done either in a tin made on purpose, or in a fire-proof dish with a cover. The indis- pensable thing in Jugging is that the cover should be fastened so tightly on that all air is excluded whilst the meat is cooking. A tin for Jugging is easily made by any ironmonger. It should be oval, ten inches long, seven and a half inches wide, and notJUGGING *47 more than two inches deep. The upper edge of the tin should be turned outwards like a pie-dish, and it must be half an inch wide, so that the flat tin cover can be pasted closely to it. There should be a ring at each end of the tin to serve for handles. The tin cover must also be oval, quite flat, and rather larger than the inside measurements of the tin. Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets, and with the trim- mings and any scraps of other meat or bones make half a pint of broth, flavouring it with a bit of onion and a few pepper- corns. Scald the tin, and cool it in cold water. Spread the bottom of it with slices of onion, lay the cutlets, well peppered, on the onion and cover them with a sliced carrot, a young turnip sliced, an ounce of celery cut into half-inch lengths, two medium-sized onions sliced, a bunch of parsley, and, if liked, two tomatoes peeled and sliced. Add to the broth half an ounce of glaze, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a salt- spoonful of salt, and pour it into the tin. Seal the lid all round with stiff paste, fastening it securely to the flat edge of the tin. Put the tin into a shallow pan, and pour boiling- water round it one-third the depth of the tin. Keep the pan on the fire for two hours. The meat will then be cooked. Cut the lid off the tin, pin a napkin round the tin itself, and send it up immediately, placed upon a dish. If liked, the broth can be strained, skimmed, thickened, improved with a table- spoonful of Marsala, and freshly poured over the meat and vegetables just before serving. If poultry or game is Jugged in this way, make the broth of the giblets and bones. The addition of a little bacon improves poultry. Jugging is a capital way of cooking the blade-bone part of a shoulder of mutton, boned and flattened. Broiling- and Grilling-.—Broiling and Grilling, which are practically the same thing, depend, like Roasting, on the direct heat of the fire. But, unlike Roasting, they are adapted to small pieces of meat, such as Beef-steaks, Mutton Chojos or Cutlets, the leg and other parts of poultry and game, etc. The principal thing in ordering a Broil or a Grill is to see that you really get it; in other words, to be sure that the cook has used the gridiron, and not the frying-pan. A Broil or a Grill ought to be cooked on the bars, or grid, of the gridiron; in fact, this148 BROILING AND GRILLING is essential. The frying-pan almost invariably causes greasiness, and although there are Wet Grills as well as Dry Grills the moisture is given by a sauce after the meat has been thoroughly grilled on the gridiron. For a Broil or a Grill have a clear fire of live coals, and use cutlet-tongs. The blades of two knives can be used to turn the Grill if cutlet tongs are not at band, but they are a clumsy substitute for tongs. Of course a fork must never be used, for it would prick the meat and allow the juices to escape. Set the gridiron over the clear fire, at a distance of from three to six inches above the coals, according to the heat, and when it has become hot rub the bars with a little salad-oil or suet, or butter. Lay the meat on the gridiron; if the meat is fresh, such as a beef-steak or a mutton chop, let it be close to the fire at first, so as to “ seal ” the juices, and then draw it a little further away from the fierce heat. Hold the gridiron l’ather slanting, so that the fat may not run into the fire. But if a little does fall in and make a flame it will not matter, for this flame, or rather flare-up, unlike the flame from coals, gives no taste. After one minute, turn the meat with the cutlet-tongs, and when the other side has cooked for another minute turn it again. After this, turn every two minutes till the meat is done. Either a steak or a chop ought to look plump in the middle when done, and if pressed with the finger will hardly yield to. the touch at all. When the meat is still raw inside the surface recovers slowly from pressure : when under-done (as is often liked), it rebounds at once. It is only when thoroughly cooked that the meat feels really firm. As to time: for a beef-steak an inch and a half thick allow twenty minutes ; a mutton chop an inch thick will take twelve minutes, and must be turned six times ; a cutlet half an inch thick will need from eight to ten minutes ; a slice of salmon fifteen minutes ; legs of poultry and game, till they are thoroughly browned, but not burnt. All Broils and Grills should be served straight from the gridiron without a moment’s delay, and if they show a little scorching from the bars of the gridiron so much the better. There are many varieties of Grill Seasoning. One of the best for a Dry Grill is a teaspoonful of Nepaul pepper, the same149 BROILING AND GRILLING of black pepper coarsely ground, and two teaspoonfuls of salt. Mix all well together. Score a tui'key leg or a chicken leg criss-cross with a sharp knife, after having skinned it, and pepper this seasoning well into the cuts before you begin to grill it. This seasoning may be kept ready mixed in a bottle. Grill Seasoning’s.—{Family Recipes.)—(1.) Skin and score the chicken legs, making the scoring criss-cross, and using a very sharp knife. When the legs are a little done rub them well with a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and a dessertspoonful of freshly-ground black pepper. Grill the legs again, and as soon as the mixture has dried on put a little cream over them, and cover them over till thoroughly hot. Just before serving put them in the Dutch oven before the fire to get crisp. (2.) Skin and score the turkey legs well. Mix a teaspoonful of cayenne, the same of white pepper, of salt, and of mustard- flour in a little butter or a little salad oil. Add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and, with a knife or the edge of a spoon, insert this mixture into the scores. Do not rub it over the meat. Grill the turkey legs thoroughly. Whatever is left of the mixture should be mixed with a little gravy, warmed up, and handed with the pulled and grilled tui’key as sauce. (Minced and blanched chives, thyme, and parsley should be substituted for the Harvey sauce.) For a Wet Grill, broil the meat just as much as for a Dry Grill, and when it is done roll it over and over in Grill sauce. Gllbbins’ Grill Sauce.—Put a soup-plate over a slop-basin filled to the brim with boiling water. Melt in the plate an ounce of butter, and when it is melted stir into it two tea- spoonfuls of made mustard, then a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of cream. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. Wyvern’s Grill Sauce.—Take a hreakfastcupful of gravy, or of broth made from scraps, and half an ounce of glaze or a teaspoonful of Brand’s essence. Put all into a saucepan, and add to it a tablespoonful of hot yet sweetish bottled chutney, a tablespoonful of mustard mixed with Worcester sauce instead of water, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of Marsala, half a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, and aDEVILLED CHICKEN iS° teaspoonful of Cliili vinegar. Heat all together to melt the jelly and blend the ingredients, then strain, and thicken with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. Heat this up to boiling-point in a frying-pan, and roll the grilled meat or bones in it off the fire. Serve immediately, with the rest of the sauce in the pan poured over them. Broiled Bones, which are the remainder of a roast saddle of mutton, or the blade-bone of a shoulder of mutton, are grilled in exactly the same way. The Grill sauce for Broiled Bones is generally liked very hot, for which add a few drops, not more than six, of Tabasco—a hotter adjunct than the hottest cayenne pepper. Devilled meat differs from Grilled meat in the important particular that it is prepared not on the gridiron but in the frying-pan, or the oven. In both cases the meat will have been previously cooked. For devilled chicken with sauce, cut the cold chicken into neat pieces, sprinkle them with curry powder and a dust of salt. Melt half an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and fry an onion in it till the onion is brown. Put the pan on a low fire, and add the pieces of chicken, turning them about to prevent burning. When the butter seems almost absorbed, and the pieces of chicken are thoroughly heated, turn the chicken out of the pan into a hot dish, and brush off the onion. For the sauce, melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour. When well blended add a teacupful of gravy or broth, mix well, and then add a dessertspoonful of Harvey sauce, the same of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of chutney. Boil, strain, and serve with the chicken as hot as possible. Wyvern adds to this, for additional heat, a tea- spoonful of finely-chopped skin of green Chilis, carefully omitting the seeds. For chicken devilled dry, mix a teaspoonful of mustard flour into a dessertspoonful of French mustard, and add a dessertspoonful of minced chutney, a dust of cayenne, of salt, and of freshly-ground pepper. Brush the pieces of chicken over with melted butter just warm, and then coat them with this mixture. Sprinkle rasped breadcrumbs (crust) all over theI5I WYVERN’S GRILL SAUCE chicken, and put the pieces on a buttered tin in a quick oven. Watch that the chicken does not get dry, and if it does add a little butter. It will be done in a quarter of an hour. Serve dry on a hot dish, and hand a salad of lettuce, endive, or water- cress. Some cooks use the double gridiron, which hangs in front of the fire, for Broiling and Gi’illing. This saves trouble, but the result is not nearly so good as when the single gridiron is used. The American Grip Broiler and Toaster is a very useful contrivance; it is made of polished steel, and can be turned easily as the broiling goes on. This invention is to be had from the Enterprise Company, 86 Dale Street, Liverpool. English cooks make much more use of the marinade than they did. In Prance the poverty of the meat long ago com- pelled cooks to marinade it, and there the process is applied to most small joints. With our English meat the marinade is most suitable to cutlets or fillets. It may be described as a sort of flavouring pickle, in which the meat lies from early morning until it is required. The marinade keeps the outside of the meat fresh and juicy, preventing its drying up where it has been cut, and greatly adds to its tenderness. Besides this, the marinade prevents all risk of tainting, or of injury from flies, and gives a delicate flavour to the meat. The usual marinade for mutton cutlets, fillets of beef, etc., is made in the proportion of four tablespoonfuls of salad oil to one of vinegar, with one sliced shallot or small onion, six cloves, a bay leaf, twelve peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of dried thyme or marjoram, and a table- spoonful of minced parsley. Some cooks add a strip or two of very finely-pared lemon peel, but this requires care, as lemon peel has a very pungent flavour. French cooks of course add g-arlic to their marinade; if this flavour is liked it should be added according to Mrs. Earle’s method (see Garlic). There is no need to make a great quantity of marinade ; all that is wanted is that it should cover the bottom of the dish in which the cut- lets are placed. They must not only soak in the marinade, but must be turned about in it and basted with it several times during the day. A clever cook will vary the flavour of the*5* FRYING marinade, and it can be kept going on regularly, a little more oil or vinegar being added as required. Veal cutlets and fillets of rabbit are wonderfully improved by a well-flavoured marinade. When the cutlets are wanted they should be lifted out of the dish one by one, drained for a minute or two, and then cooked. Special marinades for hashed venison, mutton, and hare are given elsewhere. In these cases the marinade is not kept for future use, but is strained and added to the thick sauce in which the meat is simmered. Another marinade is given for fresh venison—a method which answers far better than hanging it. Frying1.—There is no doubt that Oil is by far the best medium for frying. But there is often a strong prejudice against it in England, arising partly from a recollection of the two intolerably nauseous oils used in medicine, and partly from the fact that Olive Oil is somewhat expensive. Olive Oil, however, is being more and more used in English kitchens, and is in consequence less expensive than it was. The best Oil should always be bought, and it should be procured from a first-rate shop, where the Oil is sure to be fresh as well as pure.* The finest Olive Oil comes from Provence, the next best from Florence, and the third quality from Lucca. Olive Oil should be of a pale greenish-yellow colour, and tasteless, except for a slightly sweet nutty flavour. If Oil is not good it has a brownish colour, and a disagreeable smell. It is not generally known that vast quantities of Cotton-Seed Oil are now exported from Turkey and other Eastern countries to the South of France, and from thence re-exported as pure Olive Oil. One great advantage of using Olive Oil for frying is, that if slowly heated it can rise to a temperature of 600° without burning, whilst fat gets over-heated at 400°, and butter burns at a far less temperature. Whitebait and Potato Chips must be fried at a temperature of 400°, or they will not be crisp. Anything protected by a * Messrs. De Castro, 66 Piccadilly, import pure Olive Oil in large earthenware jars, and bottle it off.FRYING *53 coating of egg and breadcrumb or flour, sucb as Fisb, Cutlets, Rissoles, Croquettes, etc., needs a temperature of 380°. But if Parsley and some kinds of batter are fried in so bigb a temperature tliey will blacken, shrivel, and spoil. Patience and practice will soon show the cook when the frying medium is properly bot and ready for whatever is to be put into it. Lard is not to be recommended as a frying medium, for however carefully it may be used it always adheres to the article fried, and always imparts to it a taste of its own. One great French chef, Careme, always used for frying the fat skimmed from the surface of the pot-au-feu or stock-pot, carefully strained through muslin. A still more celebrated French chef, Coufte, preferred clarified beef suet. His method of preparing it will be found at the end of this chapter. If there are plenty of broken bones in the stock-pot the melted marrow will rise to the top, and is, as Careme found it, most valuable as a frying medium, although only a small quantity can be collected. But it must be recollected that no soup will be clear if the marrow has been left in the bones. If thick soup or broth is required Careme’s method may well be followed. There are two varieties of Frying ; the French or Wet Frying, in which the articles to be fried are immersed in a bath of properly heated oil or fat; and the English or Dry Frying, in which the articles are frizzled in a shallow frying-pan. Both methods are most valuable in their different ways, and both should be carefully and patiently studied. In French or Wet Frying, whatever the frying medium may be, it is essential that there should be plenty of it. A seamless steel stewpan, oval in shape, and with two handles, should be provided. It will be more expensive than iron, but it is more easily cleaned, and it lasts much longer. The pan should be six inches deep, eight inches across, and ten inches long. The pan has to be kept steady over the fire whilst in use, so that a long handle for shaking it is not required. If suet is used, from two to two and a half or three pounds will be needed for a pan or bath of this size. The fat must be quite three inches deep when it is melted. A wire basket, or frying basket, withFRYING !54 a long handle, is required. This should be quite an inch less in diameter than the pan, so that it may go into it quite easily and loosely. Fish must be fried in a fish kettle provided with a wire drainer. The most useful size is thirteen inches long by ten wide, oval measurement. French frying is better done on a gas-stove than over a fire, for it is very important to maintain the same degree of heat during the whole process. Sufficient space must be allowed above the fat to prevent it from boiling over; but if the pan is six inches deep the fat should be three inches deep. For ordinary frying heat the temperature should be 345°; for coated articles, 380°; for whitebait and potato chips 400°. It is a great mistake to suppose that oil or fat are boiling when they make a noise and bubble like boiling water. The bubbling is due to the watery element in them, which is being driven out, or evaporated in steam, and the temperature will only be that of boiling water, viz., 212°. The boiling of oil and of fat begins after this, when they are quite still, with no noise and no bubbling. The frying medium, whether oil or fat, must now be carefully watched. Very soon a faint blue vapour will rise from the surface (easily seen if the pan is looked at sideways), and this shows that the temperature has risen to 380°. The cook can make sure by throwing a sippet of bread into the pan. If the bread browns whilst the cook counts twenty, and if it fizzes with the fat bubbling freely in large bubbles round it, 380 degrees of heat have been reached- If the bread does not colour, and if the bubbles are small and weak, the frying medium is still too cool. When the right temperature has been attained the articles to be fried should be put in without one moment’s delay, or the fat will burn. When the blue vapour looks like smoke the fat is burning, and will impart a disagreeable taste and smell to whatever is put into it. If a lesser temperature than 380' is needed the pan can be drawn to one side as soon as the blue vapour rises, and cooled for a minute or two. If, on the contrary, a temperature of 400° is required, the pan must be watched for a few minutes till the blue vapour rises thick and fast, and is just beginning to darken in colour.*55 FRYING The frying-basket must be gently lowered into the bath of oil or fat, but on no account must it be allowed to touch the bottom of the pan. The articles in the basket must not touch each other; if they do they run a risk of both burning and bursting their coating. The cook must there- fore be most particular to fry only a few things at a time. When these are a bright golden brown, lift up the basket and let the fried articles drain in it, held over the hot fat in the pan, for a few seconds. This prevents the fat from adhering to them, and if it is not attended to greasiness both in appearance and taste is sure to result. It is by far the best plan to lay the fried articles on a wire pastry-rack in a hot place to dry, but if this most useful thing has not been provided they must be laid on a clean sheet of white blotting-paper, not touching each other. If the fried articles have been properly drained over the hot fat they will hardly mark the blotting- paper ; if carelessly managed each will be seen standing in a pool of grease. Croquettes, and all such things which are soft inside, must be constantly turned about with a wide-bladed knife or a spoon, whilst they are in the bath, or they will not be evenly cooked all through. It is wise to cool the frying medium a little by drawing the pan to one side before each fresh relay of articles to be fried is put into it. The pastry drainer does best put in the mouth of the oven; but it can be set before the kitchen fire. If the articles fried are dark, and not a clear golden brown, the frying medium has been too hot, or they have been held in it too long. If they look sodden the frying medium has not been sufficiently hot. Whatever article is fried must be absolutely and completely covered by the frying medium. As soon as everything is fried the pan must at once be drawn away from the hot part of the stove, or the fat will burn and spoil, or even catch fire. Let it cool for a quarter of an hour. Then strain it through muslin, into a clean bowl. This is better than putting it back into the pan it was heated in, as it will now harden and can be used two or thi’ee times more. As soon as the fat looks leaden it is of no further use, and must be thrown away'.FRYING I-S6 Fat in which fish has once been fried will always have a fishy taste, and must be used for fish alone. It should be strained into a bowl of a different colour from those used for other fat, so as to avoid the chance of using it for anything but fish. In English or Dry Frying a much smaller quantity of frying medium is required, as the articles, such as mutton cutlets, etc., are cooked slowly, and in a shallow frying-pan. But, in this case also, everything depends on the proper heat of the frying medium. The frying-pan must first be thoroughly heated, and the fat thoroughly melted. If this is not done the juices of the meat will escape, and the meat will in consequence be tough. Pancakes are fried in the English way, and so is bacon. Clarified Beef Suet.—This method has been adapted by Wyvern from Gouffe’s system and is admirable. “Procure as “ much good fresh suet from a sirloin of beef (that surrounding “ the kidney is the best) as you require, and cut it into pieces. “Place a large saucepan or stewpan on the fire, fill it tliree- “ parts full of water, and throw in the pieces of fat. By “ degrees these will melt the skin, and impure fragments will “ sink, and a rich oil will float upon the surface of the water, “ which should be kept at a simmering pitch. When satisfied “ that the whole of the fat has melted, suspend operations, take “ the pan from the fire and let it get cold; when cold, the “ clarified fat will be found congealed upon the surface of the “ water. Now take it off in flakes, drain every drop of water “ from it, wipe it dry, and put it into a clean saucepan. Melt “it again, and strain it through a piece of muslin into an “ earthenware bowl. The fat will again consolidate—in a firm “ whitish cake, as it were—far firmer than butter, though quite “ as sweet and clean. Suet thus clarified will keep perfectly “ good a long time. Observe that you do not boil the fat. The “ melting is gradually effected at simmering point. Keep the “ bowl of suet in a cool larder, for, although it is not so delicate “ as butter, clarified suet is all the better for being kept cold. “ Any excess of fat that there may be with the under cut of a “ sirloin can be made use of exactly in the same way as the raw “ suet. Clarify it according to the rales already given, and “ pour it into an earthenware bowl.”FRYING BATTER r57 Frying1 Batter.—The greatest attention must be paid to the making of Frying Batter, or the dish fried will be spoilt. For orlys, fried chicken, kromeskis, or any savoury frying, Wyverns recipe for batter cannot be too highly recommended. It must, however, be exactly followed in every particular. Not less than two hours before the cooking is to begin mix four yolks of eggs with four tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil. Incorporate with this mixture thoroughly seven ounces of flour and a saltspoonful of salt. The flour should be dry and of the best quality. Work this now, with care, to a smooth paste, adding sufficient lukewarm water to bring it to the consistency of a thick sauce, and continue to beat it for at least ten minutes. If the batter appears too thick, add a little water until its consistency is satisfactory; that is, the batter should cover the spoon when lifted out of it with a coating about the eighth of an inch thick. As soon as satisfactory, the mixture should be put in a warmish place, covered with a cloth. Just before using add the froth of two of the whites of the eggs well whipped. For a Frying1 Batter for Sweet Fritters proceed as above, mixing in from one to two ounces of powdered sugar, and from one teaspoonful to two tablespoonfuls of brandy, or liqueur, as liked. A very simple batter for light beignets is made by dropping- one whole egg into one ounce of flour, and working in three tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the batter well, let it rest for one hour, fry in boiling suet till quite crisp (from three to four- minutes), take the fritters out with a slice, drain them, and chy them. These can be served with salt, or sugar and lemon as liked. In the frying of all Fritters, as has been before observed, it is most important to do only a few at a time. If too many are put in at once the frying medium will be chilled, and the Fritters will be tough instead of crisp. The French form of frying, called to sauter, is a refined form of English dry frying. Much less fat is used, and the cutlets or joints of chicken are not coated with egg and breadcrumb. A saute-pan is a straight-sided frying-pan. Butter it well, then lay the cutlets in it, add a little glaze, and keep jerking153 MINOR MATTERS the pan to prevent them from burning, and to ensure their being evenly cooked on both sides. The cutlets should be covered with a buttered paper, and should in consequence of the jerking sauter, or jump and leap, during the whole process of cooking. Hand good brown sauce, or put a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each cutlet. SOME MINOR MATTERS. The three minor matters in cooking described in this chapter are well worth careful attention, for they are constantly needed, and must all be carried out with the utmost care and neatness. Attention to them shows that a cook is well trained and up to her work quite as much as her skill in any of the larger under- takings described elsewhere. To Eg’g’ and Breadcrumb.—The process is slightly different with cutlets, fillets, etc., of meat, and with fish, but plenty of good stale crumbs which have been pounded and rubbed through a stiff wire sieve are always wanted. Beat two eggs, white and yolk, well together in a soup-plate with one dessertspoonful of salad oil and one of water, or two dessertspoonfuls of milk. The eggs must be beaten till they cease to be at all stringy. Have ready plenty of crumbs laid in a roomy but shallow dish. Dip the cutlet into the egg, and turn it about till every part is thoroughly and evenly coated. Do this quickly, or the cutlet will get soft. Now turn the cutlet over and over in the dry breadcrumbs. Lay it aside for half an hour, then dip it again in the egg and again coat it with the crumbs. This method is infinitely better than coating the cutlet only once, for in that case the coating is apt to be uneven and too thick. After the egg and breadcrumb have been properly applied, the cutlets should be fried a pale golden brown in plenty of hot suet, and carefully drained on blotting paper before serving. If cutlets are taken from the marinade, drain them a moment and wipe them dry before dipping them into the egg. In many cases it is a great improvement to sprinkle finely-powdered and dried herbs, or finely-minced parsley, among the crumbs. Grated cheese can be used in the same way. For Fish, see that the fish is quite dry. Then, with a brushTO EGG AND BREADCRUMB *59 varnish the fish all over with the egg. If a little flour is shaken over the fish the egg will adhere better. Have the crumbs ready in a napkin and turn the fish over and over in them. Set it aside for half an hour, then varnish it again, and this time coat it with yellowish-brown raspings of crust very finely sifted. To coat fish with flour or oatmeal, dip the fish in milk, and then turn it over in a napkin containing the flour or oatmeal well dried and sifted. A brush can be used for the egg with cutlets as with fish, but it must be a very small one, such as is sold with bottles of gum. Larding1.—French chefs make much more use of Larding than we do, for the process adds flavour to the tasteless foreign meat and poultry. In England Larding is only required for insipid meat like Yeal, and for dry poultry, such as guinea- fowl. Hares are often the better for Larding. Bacon for larding must be white, dry, and firm, and the Larding should be done in as cold a place as possible. Lard- ing-needles, which are slit tubes ending in a sharp point, are sold of different sizes. In general it does not matter about the thickness of the lardoons, as the strips of bacon are called, but it is necessary that all should be equal. The length of a lardoon should be from an inch and half to three inches. Cut with a sharp knife three or four equally-sized slices of bacon the length which the lardoons are to be, lay them one on the other, cut them into even strips lengthwise, and divide these strips again into lardoons to fit the larding-needle. If they are too large or too small for the split end of the needle Larding cannot be properly done. To lard a fricandeau hold the meat in a cloth firmly in your left hand, and with the right hand pass the point of the threaded needle into the meat half an inch deep. Work forwards, from you, and draw out the point about two inches from the place at which you in- serted it. Draw the lardoon through, leaving a piece of it sticking out at each end. Thread the needle again, and repeat the larding at intervals of one inch, keeping every successive lardoon in line with the first. Then work another line of lardoons, if required, into the spaces between the first lines. The ends of the lardoons should be neatly trimmed with scissors to equal lengths when the larding is finished. Two lines ofi6o MINOR MATTERS larding are enough for cutlets or fillets ; if they are very small one line, rather closely sewn, will do. Birds are larded on either side of the breastbone, hares and rabbits on either side of the spine, the larding in each case being worked towards the neck. Chaud-froids and Masking-.—Nothing is more useful nor more generally popular than a good Ghaud-froid properly masked, and either brown or white. Masking requires great neatness, as well as judgment in seizing the moment when the sauce is at the right temperature. Of course, all Chaud-froids were hot when previously cooked; when masked and when served they must be perfectly cold. A simple masking for a couple of boiled chickens is given by Wyvern. Boil the fowls very gently and do not over-cook them. Boil with them six ounces of carrots and of onions, two ounces of celery, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt. The eau due cuisson forms the foundation of the white masking. When the chickens are cooked there should be at least three pints of broth. With this make a good sauce blonde, see p. 130, using for the roux three ounces of butter and the same of flour. Melt an ounce of gelatine in warm broth, and then stir this into the hot sauce, and pass the whole through a sieve. See that the chickens are quite cold before you begin to make the sauce for the masking, and set them, well apart, on a roomy dish. Masking ought to be done in one operation, and should not be repeated a second time. It must be even and smooth. Every- thing depends upon the temperature of the sauce, which should flow evenly like treacle or honey, and be quite free from lumps. If the sauce is too cold it will be lumpy, and if too warm it will give too thin a coat. Try a little by dipping a spoon into the sauce; if it coats the back of the spoon well, it is right. The sauce gradually sets as it cools, so that just the right moment must be chosen for using it. Pour the sauce gently over the chickens through a funnel, working over the whole surface, and being most careful to leave no bare places. Some cooks set the basin of sauce in warm water whilst this is being done, in order to keep the sauce at the proper temperature. An ivory or yellow colour may be given to the sauce by using yolks of eggs,CHAUD-FROIDS AND MASKING 161 and the sauce may be enriched by adding cream, in the propor- tion of a dessertspoonful of cream to a pint of sauce, as a finishing touch. After the sauce has become quite firm trim off with a slice any that may have overflowed upon the dish. Garnish with bright yellow aspic jelly, cut or broken, and bunches of parsley or watercress. On no account decorate the chickens with patterns of coloured jelly, or chervil leaves, or of different coloured vegetables cut into little bits. White Chaud-froid Glaze.—Make a savoury custard with half a pint of chicken broth for chicken, and of fish broth or milk for fish, adding three yolks of eggs. Strain, stir in two tablespoonfuls of melted aspic jelly, stir well, cool, and use. Or, if you have no jelly, boil two ounces of chopped mush- rooms in half a pint of milk, mix in a quarter of an ounce of gelatine soaked in warm milk, strain off carefully, and stir in off the fire the yolk of an egg. Use light-coloured mushrooms, scraping off the dark gills to avoid colouring the sauce. Brown Chaud-froid Glaze.—Put half a pint of plain brown sauce on the fire ; if it is not a rich brown add a few drops of caramel. (Page 162.) Stir in a quarter of an ounce of soaked gelatine, and dissolve it in the sauce over a moderate fire, skimming off all scum ; lastly, add a dessertspoonful of Marsala, and pour the sauce into a basin. [Wyvern.] Fillets of chicken or of fish, or cold cutlets, can be masked in two ways, but great neatness is always required. They can be lifted on the point of a trussing needle, and dipped into the sauce till thoroughly masked with it. Or they can be lifted on the blade of a broad palette knife, and a spoonful of the sauce poured over them whilst they are held over the pan. The former method is the neatest, but the latter is useful when the fillets are to be masked only on one side. In each case they must be laid on a roomy flat dish, over ice if possible, so that they may cool and set. Wyvern’s Chicken Chaud-froid.—Cover the breast of a good chicken with buttered paper, and roast it without letting the skin take colour. When cold, remove the whole of the breast meat as neatly as you can, down to the wing joint, also all the flesh of the thighs and drumsticks. Out of the pieces thus obtained trim a number of neat fillets as nearly the same size as M162 SOME MINOR MATTERS possible, dredge a little flour over them and cover them up. For Chicken Chaud-froid Sauce : Chop all the bones left after the above process, skin, neck, pinions, etc., and with the giblets make as strong chicken broth as you can, adding four ounces of carrot, the same of onion, a bunch of parsley, an ounce of celery, a bouquet garni, and pepper and salt to flavour it well. When the broth is ready, strain it into a bowl, skim it, and proceed to make with it a rich veloute sauce (page 135), using for a pint of broth an ounce of butter and one of flour. Strain it, let it get cold, and then add to its thickness by stirring into it one-third of its quantity of liquefied aspic jelly, or plain strong meat jelly, and reducing it over the fire till it coats the spoon. Now take it from the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs, stir well as the sauce gradually gets cool. Choose a roomy flat dish, place it on broken ice if the weather is hot, and as soon as the sauce is suffi- ciently set, mask the pieces of chicken with it, lifting them on the trussing needle. Lay them on the dish to cool and set. Dish the chicken inside a border of cold aspic jelly, decorated with hard-boiled eggs if liked, and keep the dish in the ice-cave till wanted. Caramel.—This is useful for colouring soups, but it is generally made much too dark. Put a quarter of a pound of white sugar into a fire-proof china pan, and set it over a low fire. Stir till it is melted, and then let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. After the sugar begins to darken look at the spoon every few minutes, so as to judge of the colour. Great care must be taken not to let the caramel turn black and burn; if it does it will be bitter in flavour and useless. When it is coloured a delicate warm brown, add a pint of water and let it boil up. Then set it to simmer for twenty minutes, skim it, let it get cool, strain it into bottles and cork them well. Caramel should be neither sweet nor bitter. A teaspoonful of Caramel is enough to colour soup a golden brown, and should be added when the soup is set to simmer. Milk for custard puddings is often coloured with Caramel, and indeed Caramel is the safest and best of all brown colourings.163 CHAPTER VI. MEAT. Although it may not be necessary to go through the dis- agreeable process of choosing meat at the butcher’s shop, a knowledge of the proper condition of the joints sent in is absolutely needful. Most ladies hurry past the butcher’s with averted eyes, wishing that the meat so freely exposed there could be hidden from sight till it is cooked; many women never eat meat at all. But other people have to be catered fox’, and a quick eye, assisted by a little knowledge, will detect the condition of meat at once without any of the sniffing and fingering which is sometimes thought necessary. Besides, if a respectable butcher is regularly dealt with, he will not be likely to supply indifferent meat, and if an inferior joint, “ sent by mistake,” is returned to him at once he will see that the lady knows what she is about, and he will be more careful in future. Beef.—The best of all Beef is that of Scotch bullocks fed on the old pasture of an English park; but in any case Scotch Beef is better than any other. In choosing Beef, meat should be selected which is close and even in gi’ain, the lean of a cherry-red colour, the fat a creamy yellow, and the suet white and firm. When the meat is delicately mar’bled throughout with fat it is considered to be of first-rate quality. If the fat is dark yellow the animal is sure to have been fed on oil-cake, and no amount of care in cooking can disguise the greasy taste which oil-cake always gives. Bull Beef is seldom sold by first-rate butchei'S, but it can x-eadily be detected by its dark M 2164 MEAT colour, coarse grain, and unpleasant smell. Cow Beef and Bull Beef are always tough, but Cow Beef, though coarse in grain, has no disagreeable smell. Heifer Beef is light in colour and small in bone, but is too young to be really well flavoured. In ordering Beef it is best to say that the bones should be sent home with the meat, and that no more fat should be sent than that which is actually a part of each joint. The Sirloin is considered to be the best joint of Beef, and the “ middle cut ” of the Sirloin is the best part of it, as this contains the “ under cut,” or fillet. Ribs of Beef, the next joint in demand, should be chosen from the five fore-ribs, for the bones of the four middle, or wing-ribs, are inconveniently long. A Round of Beef, whether the thick side or the silver side, is generally tough, and should be salted and boiled, or served as spiced Beef. The aitch (or edge) bone joint is not in much demand, for it contains not only the head of the large thigh- bone but part of the pelvic bone also. The brisket, a part which lies below the ribs, is, like the breast of a sheep, generally too fat to be a profitable joint if served hot, but it is excellent for Pressed Beef or Spiced Beef. The shin extends from the fetlocks of a bullock up to the knees of the fore-legs and the hocks of the hind-legs; it consists principally of bone and sinew, and is valuable for stock-meat. For beef-tea the meat of the knuckle, as butchers call the tapering part of the hind-legs above the hocks, should be ordered. The fillet already named makes the best beef-steaks, but it is expensive, and excellent beef-steaks can be cut to order from the rump. Marrow-bones are most useful, as when they have served their purpose in the first instance and the marrow has been eaten, the bones make a valuable addition to the stock-pot. Ox-tails make one of the best soups. When Louis XIY expelled fifty thousand Protestant families from France in 1685 they took refuge in England, and one of the benefits conferred by them on this country was the introduction of Ox-tail soup. Before that time Ox-tails were thrown away as useless by English people. It is strange that Ox-tails are not now used for soup in France, though they are often served in other ways. I or Ox-tongues see page 144. Ox-heads can often be bought cheaply, and make excellent soup. Ox-feet, or, as they areBEEF i65 generally called, cow-heels, make the best aspic jelly. Ox Kidneys are not to be recommended, as they have a strong disagreeable flavour which cannot be entirely got rid of, although it may be lessened by soaking the Kidneys in vinegar and water for several hours. The weights of joints of Beef may be roughly given as follows. The Sirloin, from five to eleven pounds ; the Ribs, from four to fourteen pounds ; the Round, from four to twenty pounds ; the Aitch-bone, from eight to sixteen pounds; the Brisket, from four to twelve pounds. The Fillet from the Sirloin may be reckoned to weigh from one to six pounds. Rump Steaks are sold by the pound. Butchers send a ticket with the meat, giving its weight, and the cook should always verify this by weighing each joint herself. Mutton.—The days in which good four-year-old Mutton could easily be had are gone, it is to be feared for ever, and six-year-old Mutton is now looked on as a delicacy known only to the pre-historic world. Sheep are now frequently killed before they are two years old, sometimes even at sixteen months old; only ewes are allowed to live long enough to have three or four lambs, and their Mutton is poor in quality. The best Mutton is Wether Mutton at three years old. The age of a sheep can be told by the colour of the breast-bones ; if the sheep is under a year old these bones will be red, if older they are pink. The bones lose colour as the sheep ages ; in the days of four-year-old Mutton the breast-bones were as white as gristle. In colour the lean part of Mutton should be brownish red, and the fat as firm and as white as wax ; the meat should be close-grained, and the bones small. Mutton with pale coloured meat and yellowish fat should never be bought, as it is not fit for food. In choosing Mutton plump and short joints should be selected. Wether Mutton can be distinguished by the small lump of fat at the upper end of the leg. Large Mutton, besides being coarse, is wasteful, owing to the amount of bone and fat which it contains. Loins and necks of Mutton are often dreadfully fat; half an inch deep of fat on tbe outside is as much as can be required; if there is more tbe butcher should be told to trim it off. There is often a useless amountMEAT 166 of suet left inside a loin of Mutton ; this need only be kept when the kidney has been ordered. A leg of Mutton is by far the most profitable of the joints, but it is a mistake to buy one weighing over nine pounds, as the heavier weight only means coarse, tough meat. A shoulder is liked by some persons ; others agree with the bride who thought that shoulders of Mutton were used for making glue. Breast of Mutton is too fat to be profitable. If Mutton is fresh there will be a reddish look about the bones where they have been sawn off. Opinions differ as to the length of time for which Mutton should be hung, and much depends on the state of the weather, and on the size and ventilation of the larder. About a week is generally the best time, now that sheep are killed so much younger than they used to be. Butchers will generally hang meat until customers require it, but if sheep are killed at the home farm the mistress of the house must use her discretion. Bor instance, she must consider how long to hang saddles and legs of mutton so as to ensure their being tender, and she must see that the scrag-ends of the necks are cut off when quite fresh, so as to be profitable in the stock-pot. Sheep’s feet, heads, and tongues are always useful. Sheep’s kidneys are generally liked, but if there are any spots upon them they must be rejected. The usual weights of joints of English Mutton are : Leg, five to nine pounds; Saddle, eleven to twelve pounds ; Loin (half the saddle), six pounds; Shoulder, five to seven pounds; Breast, three pounds; Best end of Neck, four pounds; Scrag-end, three pounds. Pre Sale Mutton—that is, mutton from sheep fed on salt marshes by the sea—is considered to have a specially fine flavour, and is light in weight. These weights are given for English Mutton. But for a small family the small Mutton from the Welsh hills, from Dartmoor, or from Exmoor, is infinitely preferable. Messrs. Jones, Central Buildings, Llandudno, supply excellent Welsh Mutton, carriage paid, to English customers. They even send Welsh Mutton to France. The difference in weight between Welsh and English Mutton, or indeed between that of any mountain sheep and other sheep, is very great; a saddle often weighs only seven pounds, a neck three pounds, and the largest167 MUTTON leg only six pounds. “ Fairshon’s ” words, in Bon Gaultier s account of his raid, are applicable now according to the view which individual taste may approve : “ The mountain sheep are sweeter, But the valley sheep are fatter, We therefore deemed it meeter To carry off the latter.” Lamb.—Lamb, being young meat, will not keep long, and is best eaten quite fresh. The lean should be a light brownish pink, and the fat of waxen whiteness. The hind quarter, con- sisting of the leg and loin, is the best joint of Lamb ; the fore-quarter includes the shoulder, breast, and neck. As Lamb gets older the saddle is an excellent joint for a small party; the leg is always appreciated, especially when served cold for luncheon; whilst the fore and hind quarters are much liked, and the neck makes delicate cutlets. A Saddle of Lamb weighs from six to eight pounds, a Leg from four to six pounds, a Neck from three to four pounds, and a Shoulder from three to five pounds. House-Lamb—that is, the meat of a very young lamb reared indoors—is as tasteless as it is wasteful. In former days a joint of Lamb on Easter Sunday was a necessary dish —just as was salt fish on Ash Wednesday, Hot Cross Buns on Good Friday, and Pancakes on Shrove Tuesday—and for this joint House-Lamb was generally required. Messrs. Jones, of Llandudno, supply Autumn Lamb, which is properly fed, and really excellent. Veal.—Calves are generally killed so young that the meat is tasteless. The reason for killing calves so soon is that the milk of the Cow is too valuable in the dairy to be expended on the Calf. In France Veal, in the country districts, is much better than in England, because the Calf is never killed under two months old. Bull calves, if allowed to live for four months, make the best Veal. It is, I hope, needless to point out that persons who buy “nice white Veal” connive at the cruel practice of bleeding the calf at intervals before it is killed. Such Veal should always be refused. Veal should be finely grained, firm to the touch, and the fat very white. Like Lamb, it will not keep long. The fillet or the loin are the most useful parts tot6S MEAT buy; the fillet corresponds to the round of beef in a bullock The knuckle is useful in making white soup or strengthening jelly, and for the latter purpose calves’ feet are most valuable. Calf’s head forms the basis of Mock Turtle Soup, and is also used for Mock Brawn. A calf’s tail makes more delicate soup than an ox-tail. Sweetbreads are reckoned a great delicacy, and Yeal sweetbreads are preferred to Lamb sweetbreads. The udder of a calf is often mentioned in recipes, but, weight for weight, butter does just as well. A Fillet of Veal generally weighs from three pounds to eight pounds ; a Loin from one to six pounds ; a Knuckle from two to four pounds. Pork.—The Pig brings the list of the five sorts of Butcher’s Meat to a close. Five sorts are generally reckoned, but, strictly speaking, there are only three, as Beef and Yeal, Mutton and Lamb, are only the same animal at different ages. In England Pigs should be dairy-fed, if possible home-fed, or fed by some trustworthy farmer. Poi’k should only be eaten when there is an B in the month, as it is unwholesome in warm weather. Too much care cannot be taken in the choice of Pork, nor can it be too thoronghly cooked. Pigs are infested with parasites, and are liable to terrible diseases; these diseases often begin with the measles in early life, and are too apt to end in the swine-fever which necessitates compulsory slaughter and immediate burial in quick lime. The lean part of Pork should be pinky-white, pale in colour, and close- grained ; the fat should be white and firm, and absolutely free from any little lumps or “kernels.” Porkers ought never to be fattened, and should be not more than a year old when killed. If the skin or “ rind ” of Pork is thick it shows that the pig is too old. Pork should be eaten when quite fresh, and the joints should be small. The loin can be roasted or fried in chops; if roasted, the skin should be left on and scored in regular stripes of about a quarter of an inch wide, using the point of a sharp knife, before the joint is put down to the fire. If this is not done the skin or “ crackling ” will blister and become too hard to cut. A loin of Pork weighing seven pounds should be roasted for three hours. The spare-rib, or neck, is roasted, and eaten cold with mustard, or made into cutlets. The leg is169 PORK slightly salted, and then simmered very slowly; at least four hours will be required, and the water must be carefully skimmed. Parsnips are eaten with boiled Pork. The usual weights of these joints are : Loin, five pounds to seven pounds ; Leg, nine pounds; Spare-rib, six pounds. The head of the pig can be made into Brawn, or the cheeks may be slightly salted, and boiled. Sausages are made of the fat and lean of Pork, and are generally put into the prepared intestines of the pig. Pigs for Bacon and Hams are older than Porkers. A Black Berkshire pig makes excellent Bacon at only sixteen months old, but this is not the case with other breeds. Bacon is an old word, used all over Northern Europe for the back and sides of a pig when salted. In choosing Bacon the lean should be pink and the fat white ; for if the lean is brownish-red and the fat yellow the Bacon is sure to have been over-salted, and may even be “ rusty ” or stale. Tastes vary much as to the size of Hams; some people like the smallest they can get, others prefer a York Ham weighing twenty-five or thirty pounds, and others again like to eat a Westphalian and an English Ham of equal sizes together. The peculiar flavour of a Westphalian Ham is due to the smoke of a fire of juniper branches, in which it is hung for three weeks. Monsieur de Saint Simon never forgot the taste of the little Spanish Hams which he had tasted once at Lerma, near Burgos, in the north of Spain. The pigs lived upon the flesh of vipers.* Nowadays the Hams of the little black pigs which live upon the rattlesnakes so abundant in North Carolina are considered to be a special delicacy. If Pigs are killed at home it is well to insist on their being stunned first, like a bullock. This prevents all suffering, and prevents in consequence those dying yells which, growing fainter and fainter, last so long and are so distressing to hear. * “ On y servit de petits jambons vermeils, fort rares en Espagne meme, qui ne se font que chez le due d’Arco et deux autres seigneurs, de cochons renfermes dans des especes de petits pares, remplis de halliers oil tout fourmille de viperes, dont ces cochons se nourrissent uniquement. Ces jambons ont un parfum admirable, et un gout si releve et si vivifiant qn'on en est surpris, et qu’il est impossible de manger rien si exquis.” 1721. (Memoireg. Tome xxxvii, chapitre xxxviii.)170 MEAT Fox' curing Bacon, Hams, and Pigs’ Cheeks, see Salted Meat. It was formerly the custom to put a thick coat of mortar over the inside of a cured Ham to keep out the air and to pre- vent the meat from “ rusting.” A better way, and one specially needed in a damp climate, is to cover the underneath portion of the Ham, whei’e the knife has been, as well as the knuckle-end, with a paste made of lime mixed with water. This entirely pi-events any “ x’usting.” Rust, or mildew, is a minute fungus pi’oduced by damp. BEEF. Roast Sirloin Of Beef.—If the Sirloin weighs ten pounds allow at least two hours and a half to roast it, or rather more if the weather is cold. It is a good plan to take out the fillet and cook it as a separate dish. Wipe the Beef with a clean cloth, and hang it carefully on the roasting-jack, so that it may turn round evenly. Cover the fat with a buttered paper, or it will burn, and tie the paper securely on with string till the meat is three-parts done. Have a good clear fire, and be sure in mending it to mend it at the back, or the meat will get smoked. Let the thickest part of the Beef be downwards, as in that way it will get the greatest heat of the fire. Put the meat close to the fire for eight minutes, so as to “ Seal ” the juices; then draw it further back. Baste the beef every fifteen minutes, beginning by basting it with broth (not water), and going on with the fresh dripping which the Sirloin will soon yield. If you begin by putting additional dripping in the dripping-pan the meat is likely to be gi'easy. When the Sirloin is nearly done take away the dripping-pan, and replace it by a dish or tin for Yorkshii’e Pudding. Pour off the whole of the fat as slowly as you can into a basin, leaving in the dripping-pan only the sediment of the gravy. Add a cupful of broth from the stock-pot to this (hot water may be used, but broth is far better), stir well, and pour into the very hot dish in which the Sirloin is to be seiwed. On no account pour the gravy over the beef, and gravy served with roast meat must never be thickened. Some people like the joint to be floured. If this is done di'edge a little flour over it when you take the dx'ipping-pau away, asROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF 171 if any of the flour fell into the clripping-pan it would thicken and spoil the gravy. The flour gives a brown frothy surface to the meat. Draw the joint nearer the fire at the last, so as to secure a crisp surface, and serve the moment you take it off the roasting-jack. These are the rules for English roasting of all joints. Constant basting is of the greatest importance, and there ought to be broth always available from the stock-pot. Ribs Of Beef.—In roasting Ribs of Beef it is a good plan to hang the thick part upwards till three-parts done. Be careful to hang the thick part so as to get most of the heat of the fire, and to tie buttered paper over the fat. When three-parts done, hang the joint the other way upwards till it is cooked. If the joint is large, say fourteen pounds, allow three hours and a half for cooking it; a little more if it is a thick joint. Yorkshire Pudding’.—Yorkshire Pudding, with grated horseradish and horseradish sauce, either hot or cold, is always served with Roast Beef. It can only be made in perfec- tion when the batter can be put in a tin which receives the dripping from the roasting joint. Put half a pound of flour in a basin, make a hole in the middle, and break into it two whole eggs. Stir very smoothly round and round with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees about a pint of milk, or enough to make a smooth consistent batter. Let the tin become coated with the drippings from the meat. Pour in the batter, let it brown and set at the top, then turn it over with a knife so that both sides are done. Serve the Yorkshire Pudding cut in squares on a napkin. If, however, this method cannot be fol- lowed, the batter should be poured into a tin which has been buttered with quite an ounce of butter, and baked a light bright brown in the oven. Under the meat Yoi'ksliire Pudding will take three-quarters of an hour. For baking allow twenty minutes in a quick oven. Fillet Of Beef.—If the Fillet is taken from the Sirloin it can be plainly roasted, and sent up with a garnish of spaghetti or macaroni stewed in gravy. Five ounces of macaroni will be a sufficient quantity. Or the Fillet can be braised. For this use a fire-proof stew- pan, or a marmite, with a cover. Copper stewpans do not answer for slow cooking. The stewpan must have a cover.172 BEEF French cooks put a slice of bacon at the bottom of the stew-pan, then the beef, and then another slice of bacon, and when the broth is added to the meat they add a tablespoonful of brandy. For the rest see Braising. Small Fillets of Beef. •—These are not taken from the Fillet belonging to the Sirloin, but are cut from a piece of the ramp. Trim the meat into ten or a dozen neat oval fillets, each three-quarters of an inch thick, three inches and a half long, and two and a half wide. They may be larded on one side (in which case French cooks call them Grenadins), or a slice of fat about the size of, and twice as thick as, half-a-crown may be laid between each. An excellent way of serving little Fillets of Beef is with mushrooms. In any case the Fillets should marinade (see page 151) for six or eight hours, or they will not be tender. Then drain and dry them, and arrange them, larded side uppermost, in a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, and fry, on the lower side only, for four minutes. Then moisten the Fillets with a pint of good broth—enough, that is to say, to come up level with their upper surface—add a tablespoonful of Marsala, and let them simmer for three-quarters of an hour upon a gentle fire, basting them with their own broth. When done, lift the Fillets out of the pan, put them in a line, over- lapping each other, in the centre of a well-heated good-sized oval dish, metal if possible, brush them over with glaze, and garnish with mushrooms. [ Wyvern. ] Or arrange the Fillets in an oval, and fill the centre with broiled mushrooms. For the sauce have ready the usual roux of an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter, stir the strained broth from the saute-pan into this by degrees, skim, flavour with a gill of broth made from the mushroom peelings and half an ounce of glaze, thicken, bring to the boil, and pass through a strainer into a hot sauce- boat. Or the Fillets can have a tiny pat of maitre d’h6tel butter melting on each, and a pile of fried potatoes in the middle, their own gravy being poured round them. Or they may be arranged on a border of carefully mashed potato. Beef-steaks.'—Beef-steaks should never be fried, as was the old-fashioned custom. They may be stewed, but they are infinitely better either broiled or jugged. Cut a piece of rump Steak three-quarters of an inch thick, and if possible cut it from aBEEF-STEAKS i73 joint which has hung for a (lay or two. Lay the Steak on a clean cloth, and beat it well on both sides with a cutlet-bat. Or take a heavy blunt carving-knife, and hack it as closely as you can from one end to the other on both sides. The knife must be too blunt to cut with. Wipe the Steak, but on no account wash it. Heat the gridiron, butter it well, lay the Steak upon it, and turn it with cutlet-tongs very often, or the gravy will be drawn out on one side more than on the other. Do not add pepper or salt. The fire must be very clear, and if it is so the Steak will be done in from twelve to fourteen minutes. Have ready a hot fire-proof dish with a cover, rub the dish with half a raw onion, lay the Steak in it, add salt and pepper, and serve immediately. Some cooks put a pat of butter on the Steak, then put the hot cover on the dish, and set it in the oven for five minutes to draw all the juices to the surface. Either way is good. For a Jugged Beef-steak see Jugging. As to quantity, four pounds of Steak is enough for eight people. If the Beef-steak is stewed it should just colour in boiling suet, and then stew for four hours in broth, with plenty of vegetables. The pan should be shallow, and the broth only just cover the meat. Half an hour before the Steak is done add one teaspoonful of mustard flour, and one of dried horseradish. (Some cooks add a tablespoonful of brandy.) Stir into the broth which the Steak has made. If possible, use a fire-proof dish for stewing the Steak. Beef Olives.—Take a pound and a quarter of rump Steak, beat it well, or hack it with a very blunt knife on both sides. Cut it into thin strips two inches wide and six inches long. Spread them with sausage meat or forcemeat, roll them up, and tie each round with a thread. Put the rolls into a saucepan close together, with a sliced carrot, and a bunch of herbs, just cover them with stock (about a pint and a half ■will be wanted), and simmer them very gently till quite tender. This will take from three and a half to four hours. Arrange the rolls on a border of good mashed potato, being careful to remove the threads. Skim the stock, thicken it, strain it, and pour it round the rolls. Put a vegetable puree, such as spinach, in the centre of the dish. Marrow Patties,—Get the butcher to break the marrow-174 BEEF bone so that the fresh marrow can be got out in pieces the size of a walnut. Put the marrow into a stewpan with a pinch of salt, cover it with cold water. Then boil it for a minute or two, and pass it through a hair sieve. Have ready six patty pans lined with puff paste. Mince finely one tablespoonful of mixed parsley, thyme, and chives (all previously blanched), take a tablespoonful of cream and beat it and the herbs well together with a few drops of lemon-juice, and a dust of salt and pepper. Put the marrow in the patties with a little of this cream, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Or when you have blanched the marrow let it drain and get cold on a sieve, then cut it in slices, warm it up in a little broth in the bain-marie and fill the patties. Pnt a dessertspoonful of marrow into each. See also Marrow-Bones, Beef Pie, Beef-steak Pie, and Savoury Stew. Beef-steak fop One Person.—{Family Recipe.)—Cut a small juicy Beef-steak one inch thick, and trim off all fat. Season with salt and pepper, and flour the Steak on both sides. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with just enough cold water to keep the meat from sticking, and let it cook on the hot-plate for an hour and a quarter, or longer if the Steak is large. This Steak is very tender, and the gravy is eqnal to beef tea. Serve on a hot-water plate. Vienna Steaks.—Mince very finely half a pound of raw lean beef and half a pound of raw lean veal. Season with spiced pepper and salt, add a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and a teaspoonfnl of finely-minced shallot, and mix into the mince two well-beaten eggs. The mixture should be half an inch thick. Turn it out on a flat dish and leave it all night to get firm. Next day cut the mince into rounds with a three and a half inch cutter, flour each, and sauter them in butter. Allow three minutes for one side, turn round, and allow three minutes for the other side. Dish the steaks round a pile of mashed potato, and hand round brown gravy. [Wyvern.~\ Tournedos, or Twice-laid, of Beef.—Pass half a pound of lean Hamburg spiced beef or salt beef through the mincer. Cut the fat into dice and fry them till the fat is thoroughly melted. Have ready in a hot saucepan aTOURNEDOS i75 pint and a half of good mashed potato. Emj)ty the contents of the frying-pan upon this, and stir well together with a wooden spoon. Add the minced beef by degrees, and moisten with a few spoonfuls of broth or milk. Turn the whole into a well- buttered mould, and bake until thoroughly hot. Then turn it out, shake some fine raspings over it, and garnish with curls of fat bacon. [ Wyvern. ] Savoury Jelly.—Take four pounds of leg of beef, a pound of ham, three carrots and two onions sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put all into two quarts of cold water, and season with pepper and salt. Bring it to the boil, then skim it care- fully. Let it simmer for twelve hours. Strain it through a fine sieve, let it get cold, and serve cut into diamonds two inches long. Do not clear the jelly. Beef Roll.—Mince very finely a pound of raw beef-steak, and a quarter of a pound of cooked ham. The meat should he passed through the mincer twice. Add to the minced meat one well-beaten egg, and two ounces of dried and sifted bread- crumbs. Season with pepper and a little salt, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. Shape the mixture into a roll, tie it up in a cloth, fastening the ends tightly, and boil it for three hours. When cold, glaze the roll. It is good sliced for sandwiches on a journey. In this case, mustard should be mixed with the butter spread on the sandwiches, and, if the mustard has been mixed with water in which horseradish has been boiled, it will be found an improvement. Ox-tail.—Cut the Ox-tail into joints; use only the large ones for the dish, and reserve the small joints for the sauce. Trim away the fat from the upper joints of the tail, and let all the joints lie for a short time in cold water to get rid of any blood. Put the joints in a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, and an onion, all sliced, a bouquet of herbs, and three sticks of celery. Season with pepper and salt, add enough broth or second stock to cover the pieces of Ox-tail, and simmer till tender. This will take from three to four hours. The small joints should be simmered with the larger ones. When the pieces of Ox-tail are tender, take out the large joints and keep them hot. Boil up the broth, skim, strain, and turn it to a good sauce. Ox-tail is rather insipid, so that either SauceBEEF 176 Robert (page 131) or Sauce Bearnaise should be selected. Arrange the pieces of Ox-tail in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Mushrooms make the best garnish; some people like glazed onions. Rechauffe Of Cold Beef.—This excellent dish can be made of either cold roast Beef or cold braised Beef, cut into neat slices. First make the sauce. Thicken three gills of broth, strengthening it with an ounce of glaze. Flavour with the stalks and peelings of half a pound of mushrooms, bring to the boil, simmer fifteen minutes, and pass the sauce through a hair sieve, catching up the bits of mushroom. Fry separately in butter the peeled mushrooms coarsely minced, dust them over with flour and moisten with a gill of the sauce, keep over a low fire till the minced mushroom is cooked and the consistency of the mince nearly that of jam. Now warm np the slices of Beef in the remaining sauce, take them out, drain, and lay them on a board, spreading the mushroom mince thinly over their upper surfaces; then lift them with a slice and arrange them in a line overlapping each other on a buttered fire-proof dish. The mushroom covered sides of the slices of Beef must be uppermost. Mask over with the remaining sauce, with which a dessertspoonful of Marsala has been blended. Push the dish into the oven to heat thoroughly, and serve garnished with well-made potato puree. [ Wyvern.~\ MUTTON. Saddle of Mutton.—A Saddle of Mutton comprises the two loins, and being in consequence a very broad joint it requires a wide fire. If the Saddle weighs eleven pounds allow at least two hours and a half for roasting it. Roast as directed for Sirloin of Beef. The Fillet of Mutton is the strip of tender meat which runs down the inside of the saddle under the kidney. It is excellent when cut into pieces and broiled over a clear fire. Leg- Of Mutton.—The Leg spoils sooner than any other joint of Mutton. The kernel should always be carefully taken out of the fat, and the cavity filled with salt. If the Leg is large it is a good plan to cut off one or two steaks, each an inch and a half thick, from the thick end, and to broil them like Beef- steaks. Saw off the end of the bone and leave the rest in the177 LEG OF MUTTON steaks of Mutton. An old-fashioned way of making a Leg of Mutton juicy and tender is to cover it with cold water, bring it very gradually to the boil and simmer it gently for half an hour. Then instantly put it on the roasting-jack, and roast it for an hour and a half. The joint must go straight out of the pan on to the jack. To braise a Leg of Mutton it is best to choose a very small joint. Cut off the knuckle, trim the leg neatly, and half roast it. Then put it in the braising-pan with plenty of vegetables, the knuckle-bone broken, and all the trimmings. Two ounces of butter must previously have been melted in the pan. Shake the pan over the fire till there is gravy enough to cook the meat, and then simmer the joint very slowly, turning it often. When it is quite tender take out the joint, keep it hot, skim and strain the broth, put the mutton in a very hot dish and pour the broth round it. A small leg is chosen because this dish does not bear warming-up, and should be eaten at once. If a Leg of Mutton is boiled, follow the directions on page 143. A Leg of Mutton will take about three hours to boil thoroughly. But it is a dish seldom liked, and therefore seldom seen. For Roasting allow an hour and a half to two hours. Shoulder of Mutton.—This joint will require an hour and a half to roast, and must be continually basted with its own dripping. Loin of Mutton.—The Loin is superior in flavour to the Leg of Mutton, but there is apt to be a great deal of fat upon it. This should be trimmed off by the butcher ; if the mutton is killed at home the superfluous fat can be melted down and is use- ful in various ways. For instance, Mutton Suet is used for frying- purposes, and the blades of knives not in use, and steel grates, fenders, and fireirons when put away for the summer, are preserved by a coating of mutton fat. A Loin of Mutton will take an hour to an hour and a half to roast. Neck of Mutton.—For roasting a Neck of Mutton allow an hour to an hour and a half (this applies to the best end of the neck). If the neck is to be boiled saw off the chine-bone (that is the bone fitting on to the back), saw the ends of the row of bones to four inches long, and turn the flap under. Do not take off the skin till the joint is boiled, as this will keep the fat white. Allow an hour and half for boiling the neck. In England Caper Sauce is always served with Boiled Mutton and with nothing else, N173 MUTTON just as Yorkshire Pudding is never seen without Roast Beef. Capers are the huds of the Caper tree of Southern Europe, and are only to he had in a preserved state. They have a sharp flavour, agreeable to some persons. For Caper Sauce make some melted butter, using instead of warm water the liquor in which the mutton has been boiled. Allow a tablespoonful of capers to half a pint of melted butter, squeeze a lemon into it, instead of following the usual practice of using the vinegar from the bottle of capers, stir well, and serve in a sauce-boat. Some people like the capers to be chopped instead of being whole. They should be added to the melted butter just before serving. Neck op Breast of Mutton.—(Family Recipe.)—Let the meat simmer as gently as possible till nearly done, allowing fully two hours for five pounds’ weight. Twenty minutes before serv- ing cover the joint thickly with breadcrumbs and minced thyme, parsley, and a few chives, mixed with the yolk of an egg. Put the joint into the Dutch oven before the fire, and let it brown.. Pour good gravy round, not over, the meat. In this way the Mutton will not have any taste of grease. Shoulder Of Mutton.—(.Family Recipe.)—Bone the shoulder and tie it up tight with a little parsley and chopped herbs inside it. Let it simmer gently for at least five hours, with its bone broken in half, all its trimmings, and very little water or broth. Serve with Soubise sauce if the Mutton is to be eaten hot. If eaten cold it will not want any sauce. In all Mutton which is boiled the greatest care must be taken to avoid greasiness. Nothing is more repulsive than greasy boiled Mutton. Princess Charlotte used to say that she only hated two things, first Boiled Mutton, and then Grandmamma (that is to say, the stern old Queen Charlotte). The same caution applies to a Haricot, which, carelessly made, is as distasteful as it is excellent when properly cooked. Hashed Mutton, generally despised, is excellent when properly prepared. For this make a good sauce with plenty of vegetables, and stock. Let it get cold. Then, when the hash is wanted, warm up the meat and the sauce together in the bain- I marie. It is fatal to throw cold meat into hot sauce, as it is sure to be hard, owing to the contraction of the fibre of the meat by the sudden heat. This is the cause of the general dislike to what has been called “ that uneatable horror, Hash.”179 MUTTON CHOPS Mutton Chops.—Mutton Chops are cut from the loin, and most of the fat should be trimmed off. Make the bars of the gridiron hot and either butter them well or rub them with some of the mutton suet. Have a very clear fire, and put the Chop on the gridiron with cutlet-tongs. Turn the Chop six times, always using the tongs. It will take twelve minutes to cook. Have ready a hot-water plate with a cover, put the Chop on, and serve at once. Pepper and salt to be added when the Chop is eaten. Mutton Chop fop one Person.—(Family Recipe.)—Prepare the Chop like the Beef-steak for one person. Put it on a plate with one tablespoonful of cold water and cover the plate with another exactly the same size. Put it into a slow oven for at least an hour. When the Chop is cooked the top plate should be turned to the bottom, so that the Chop is kept hot to the last, and has never been disturbed. Put the plates on a napkin on a tray, and serve with pepper and salt. Mutton Cutlets.—Mutton Cutlets are cut from the best end of the neck, and should be very neatly divided and trimmed. Prepare the neck of mutton by sawing off the chine bone, then saw the row of neck bones evenly to a short length, and cut off the flap. Take a very sharp knife, and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of them. If the knife is not very sharp you will hack and not make a clean cut. Then sever them one by one with a single light stroke of the chopper. Slightly wet the chopping-board and lay the cutlets on it, beat each cutlet a few times with the cutlet-bat dipped in cold water. This will make the meat spread out a little, and care must be taken to keep the cutlets a good shape. The cutlets must not be trimmed until this is done. Now trim off the skinny parts, and all superfluous fat, leaving only a very narrow rim of fat. Put the knife ip at the point where the solid meat ceases, cut in a slanting direction down to the bone, and strip the bone quite clear to the tip. Scrape the bone till it is perfectly clean. Trim each cutlet thus in turn. Then cut the bones to an equal length with the chopper; if you are not sure of your hand put the chopper on the right spot and give the back a good knock with the rolling-pin. Cutlets ought to be four inches long, and two inches broad in the middle; the thickMUTTON i8o end should be neatly rounded, and the bone should protrude an inch beyond the meat. Save all bones and trimmings for broth. Mutton Cutlets are most useful, for they can be cooked in so many ways. Some of the simplest methods of cooking them are (1) Broiling on the gridiron, which will take from eight to ten minutes if the Cutlets are an inch thick. (2) Jugging (see page 147). (3) Saute. For this allow the Cutlets to sauter for five minutes, then turn them and sauter them for five minutes more (see page 157). (4) Egg and breadcrumb the Cutlets, and fry them a delicate brown. In all these ways the Cutlets can be served round a puree of vegetables. It is important not to cut Cutlets thin, as in that case they are sure to be tough and not juicy. The cut should be made exactly midway between the bones. Cutlets are much better and more tender if they are allowed to marinade for eight or ten hours. Mutton Cutlets a la R6forme can be either braised, or fried after being rolled in egg and breadcrumb. They are served round a pile of equal quantities of truffles, white of hard-boiled eggs, and gherkins, all cut into strips an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and made hot in a little stock. This is the correct way, hut mushrooms cut in pieces give a far better flavour than truffles. For the sauce take three quarters of a pint of brown sauce, a gill of claret, two table- spoonfuls of red currant jelly, and the juice of one lemon. Boil, skim, reduce the sauce to half a pint, pass through a strainer, and pour it round, not over, the Cutlets. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon.—Cut the Cutlets with two bones to each, then carefully remove one bone. Flatten them with a wet cutlet-bat, and trim them neatly. Cut each Cutlet in two without dividing it at the bone. Have ready a mince made of minced parsley, mushrooms, and shallot, allow- ing plenty of shallot. Fry this a golden brown in butter, put a thick coating of the mince inside each Cutlet, press the edges together, and broil each for eight minutes. Maintenon Cutlets are generally rolled in oiled or buttered cases of writing paper cut to fit them, and put on before they are broiled. Serve the Cutlets in the papers, and hand a good sauce made of brothMUTTON CUTLETS A LA MAINTENON 181 from the trimmings, thickened and flavoured with a little red currant jelly and lemon-juice. A dessertspoonful of Marsala is an improvement. It is not necessary, although it is correct, that the Cutlets should have papers. They can be dished round a circle of well mashed potato filled with celery puree. Kidneys.—Kidneys must be carefully chosen, and free from all spots. In every case they must be skinned, blanched and the white tube belonging to each must be cut out. Kidneys can be grilled plainly, or toasted. Split them open in the middle lengthwise with- out separating the two halves. Season with pepper and salt, and broil on the gridiron, allowing four minutes for each side of the kidney. Before serving, put a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each Kidney. Or toast the Kidneys on a fork, putting a dish under them to catch the gravy. Have ready some squares of toast, lay each Kidney on one, and pour the gravy over. To sauter Kidneys, cut them in slices, removing all stringy pieces. Sauter them gently in butter, and serve hot on toast. Kidneys a la Brochette.—For these, skewers like little spits must be used. Allow for each Kidney a thin slice of bacon two inches long and an inch and a half wide. Mince a tablespoonful of parsley as finely as possible, and have ready an ounce of butter. Warm and oil the gridiron. Thread each Kidney (cut open, but not divided in half) on a skewer, and thread a slice of bacon over each Kidney. Broil the Kidneys over a clear fire, beginning with the cut side. Allow three minutes for each side. When done put the Kidneys and bacon, still on the skewers, on a hot dish; melt the butter, stir in the minced parsley, add the juice of half a lemon, and pour this sauce over the Kidneys. Serve as hot as possible. Wooden skewers will do if plated ones are not at hand. A skewer seven inches long will hold two Kidneys and their bacon envelopes. Stewed Kidneys.—Cut the Kidneys in slices, and simmer them in a pint of gravy very slowly for half an hour. Do not let them boil, for if they boil they will become too tough to eat. Add a teaspoonful of salt and of pepper, and simmer till the Kidneys are thoroughly done. Devilled Kidneys.—Skewer the Kidneys as already described, give them a broil for two minutes, then roll them on a dish upon which is spread a thin layer of made mustard. Dust over the182 MUTTON mustard-coated Kidneys a good seasoning of salt and black pepper, and continue the broiling till they are done. [Wyv&rn.~\ See also Irish Stew, Pedro Pie, etc. Haricot of Mutton.—This dish no doubt takes its name from the old French verb, Tiaricoter, to break up in small pieces. Use a fire-proof casserole, and be sure to stir the Haricot with a wooden spoon. Take two pounds of raw mutton, if possible, from the neck, joint it, and cut it into small pieces about two inches square. Remove all the fat. Put two ounces of butter in the casserole, and fry the mutton in it till each piece is a golden brown all over. Turn the pieces of mutton with the wooden spoon. Take out the meat, and lay it on a dish. Now put into the casserole two carrots, a turnip, an onion, and three sticks of celery, add one small lump of sugar, and fry in the butter used for the mutton. The vegetables should be cut into dice, or shaped into little balls with a cutter. When young carrots can be had and cooked whole, they are much the best. When the vegetables are fried golden brown put the mutton back into the casserole, and pour in enough stock (or water, if you have no stock) to cover both meat and vegetables. Season with pepper and salt. Set the casserole in the oven, or on the hot-plate, put on the lid, and let the Haricot stew gently for three hours. Serve in the Casserole. Or arrange the meat round a hot dish, put the vege- tables in the centre, and pour the sauce round. LAMB. In roasting Lamb be careful not to take it off the roasting- jack till the gravy which drops from it is colourless, for Lamb requires very thorough cooking. The fore-quarter of Lamb, consisting of the shoulder, breast, and neck, is considered the best joint; allow two hours for roasting it. The hind-quarter— that is, the leg and loin—being a thicker joint, will require rather longer. Allow an hour and a half for a leg and for a loin ; an hour for a shoulder and for a neck. Be careful to baste well. Lamb Cutlets are excellent cooked as follows: The cutlets having been neatly trimmed should be grilled, laid round a mound of spinach, and served with this sauce. Wash, dry, and183 LAMB slice up a small cucumber, skin and all, butter a stewpan with an ounce of butter, put in the pieces of cucumber and fry them gently over a low fire. Do not let them turn brown, but stir in half an ounce of flour, and when well mixed moisten with just sufficient milk to cover the cucumber. Bring to the boil, season with salt and pepper, and simmer till the cucumber is soft. Then work it through the hair sieve. Warm up again, finishing with a tablespoonful of cream. This sauce should be pale green, the consistency of rich soubise, and very delicately flavoured with the cucumber. \Wyvern.~\ Of course this sauce is handed in a sauce-boat. Mint Sauce.—Mint Sauce is, in England, as universal an accompaniment to Lamb as Yorkshire Pudding and Horse- radish are to Beef. Owing to our moist climate Mint has none of the distasteful flavour of peppermint which seems inseparable from it abroad. But the usual Mint Sauce, composed of raw unwashed Mint soaking in coarse vinegar, is a very unsuitable accompaniment to the delicate flavour of Lamb. To make good Mint Sauce pick the leaves from the stalks, blanch them for five minutes in boiling water. To three ounces of fresh Mint allow half a gill of cold water, a tablespoonful and a half of moist sugar, and a quarter of a pint of best Orleans vinegar. Mix the Mint well into the other ingredients, and let the sauce rest for a few minutes before serving. Cold Lamb Cutlets.—Roast or braise the best end of the neck, and let it get cold. Then cut it into cutlets, and trim each cutlet. Have ready some aspic jelly, flavoured with plenty of fresh mint. Mix more fresh mint into the jelly whilst it is just liquid—the mint must be blanched and minced. Cover a large dish with the jelly, and just as it is setting lay in the cutlets. Cover them with more jelly, and leave them all night. Next day cut them out with a cutlet cutter which has been first dipped in hot water, so as to stamp out the cutlets easily. Serve with a salad in the centre. Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes.—Cut eight cutlets, and take out all the bones. Mince fresh mint to the quantity of a table- spoonful, make a tcaspoonful of equal parts of minced parsley and shallot, and season with pepper and a little salt. If possible, add a tablespoonful of minced mushrooms. Mix all with theLAMB 184 mint. Cut some rounds of writing paper, butter them, rub a little butter on each cutlet, and sprinkle the mixed herbs on it. Fold the cutlets in the papers, and roll the edges round, a little bit at a time, inwards, one after the other, so as to make the edge look like a cord. It is important to make the edges tight, so that the gravy will not escape. Lay the cutlets in their papers in a frying-pan and fry them thoroughly over a slow fire in the gas-stove. Dish the cutlets, still in their papers, on a border of spinach, and put more spinach in the centre. In this way all the gravy is kept in the cutlets. Lamb Sweetbreads.—These are both smaller and tougher than Yeal Sweetbreads, but far less expensive. If carefully cooked, Lambs’ Sweetbreads answer perfectly for vol-au-vents, etc. VEAL. Veal is more difficult to keep than any meat except Pork. The kernel must be taken out of the fat both of leg and loin, and the Veal sprinkled with salt, and wiped every day with a clean cloth. The Udder of Veal, so much used by French cooks for forcemeat, is the firm white fat of the fillet. It is thoroughly boiled, set to get cold, and then well pounded. Tendons of Veal (often called tendrons in menus) are the pieces of gristle at the ends of the bones of the neck, and are thought a delicacy. They must be cut three inches long, and simmered in broth with bacon and vegetables for at least three hours. They are more like jelly than solid meat, and as they have absolutely no flavour they depend on a good sauce. This should be made of the broth reduced, thickened, and flavoured with a tablespoonful of Marsala and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Veal Sweetbreads are far more delicate and far more ex- pensive than Lamb Sweetbreads. There are two kinds, called by butchers for some inscrutable reason heart and throat Sweet- breads ; of these the former are the largest and best. Both Tendons and Sweetbreads are generally brushed over very lightly with pale glaze. To Cook Sweetbreads.—Sweetbreads need most careful cooking, and are extremely difficult to lard. They ought when done to look nearly white, and the larding ought to be transparent,TO COOK SWEETBREADS 185 white at the bottom, pale yellow at the top, and quite firm. Be most careful to take all the skin away, and all the tough pieces of cartilage which seem to tie the body of the Sweetbreads together. Lay the Sweetbreads in cold water for one hour; change the water after half an hour. If they do not look plump and white at the end of the hour change the water again, and leave them for another hour. Then lard them. Lay the Sweet- breads in a braising-pan just large enough to hold them comfort- ably side by side, touching, but not pressing upon each other ; put two slices of bacon under them, and fill the space between the Sweetbreads and the sides of the pan with bacon. Then gently pour in very good stock till it is just deep enough not to touch the larding, which must stand up free. Butter a piece of paper, and lay it very lightly on the top of the larding. Put the pan, without the lid, on the hot-plate, and let it simmer for one hour very gently. Watch it to see that the stock does not waste ; if it does, add a spoonful from time to time. At the end of the hour take away the paper, put the lid on the pan, fill the lid with hot coals. Leave the pan on the hot-plate for three-quarters of an hour. Put fresh coals on as the first supply cools, and after a quarter of an hour take the lid off now and then to see that the stock is not wasting and the Sweetbreads getting dry, and that the larding is not turning dark. The moment the larding shows the least tinge of yellow the Sweetbreads are done. Draw the pan to a cool part of the stove till it is time to serve the Sweetbreads, but be careful to manage the time so as not to keep them waiting after the braising is finished. French cooks con- trive to colour the larding during the braising, but as this requires much experience and judgment, and as a few minutes’ over- cooking would spoil the Sweetbreads, it is safer to stop the braising at the first sign of colour in the larding. Lay the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, have ready the hot salamander and just colour the tips of the larding a delicate golden brown. Brush some very clear pale glaze over the Sweetbreads, carefully avoiding the larding. Sweetbreads are served with tomato sauce, or a la finand'ere with mushrooms and small quenelles. Some people think that braising destroys the delicate flavour of Sweetbreads. In this case the Sweetbreads should, after steeping, be thrown into boiling water and boiled for three minutes. This makes them firm,186 VEAL and prevents their turning sour. Then cut the Sweetbreads into pieces three-quarters of an inch thick, egg and breadcrumb the pieces, and fry a golden brown. Serve on a napkin, with fried parsley in the centre, and hand quarters of lemon. Fillet of Veal.—Take out the bone, fill the space with stuffing (see page 202), pin the Fillet securely into a round with skewers, and fasten stout twine round and round it, or tie it round with tape. It will take from two to two hours and a half to roast. Or the Fillet can be simmered in broth with plenty of vegetables and some slices of bacon. For this allow three hours, and glaze the Fillet before serving. In each case remove the string or tape, but the skewers must be left in. Loin of Veal.—Take out the kidney and use it as a separate dish. Allow from two hours to two hours and a half to roast the loin, and cover it with a buttered paper. Or the best (or chump) end of the loin may be boned, stuffed, then braised, and served with the broth skimmed and strained and flavoured with mush- room peelings. Broil the mushrooms themselves and use them as garnish for the meat. Veal Collops.—(Family Recipe from the Cook at Woodhouse’s Coffee House.)—Take the fillet of Veal, cut off all stringy parts, cut the fleshy part into small collops as thin as shavings, using a very sharp knife, and beat them well with a rolling-pin. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the Collops a few at a time, and fry them for one minute only, over a quick fire. If the Collops fry longer they will be hard. When all are fried clean off the butter which is left in the pan, and put the Collops in with enough good veal stock, seasoned with salt and white pepper and a little mace. Take the yolks of three eggs, a little butter, half a pint of cream, and beat them well together, shake them over the fire, taking care they do not break or curdle. Take the Collops off the fire, add the eggs and cream, squeeze in a lemon and serve. Forcemeat balls can be added, boiled, not fried. Dean of York’s Italian Veal Collops.—Cut the Collops from the leg of Veal very thin and narrow and without the least fat or skin. Put two ounces or more of butter in a stewpan, with chopped parsley and shallot, season with pepper and salt, and fry for from six to ten minutes. Have ready macaroni boiled thoroughly in good Veal broth. Make a white sauce with creamDEAN OF YORK’S ITALIAN VEAL COLLOPS 187 and the yolks of two eggs. Add the macaroni to the Veal Collops, off the fire, and then add the sauce. Stir all together and serve immediately. [Sir William Cockburn, Bart. : Dean of York, 1832-1858.] Dean of York’s Frieatelles.—(.Family Recipe.)—Take four pounds of the lean of fillet of Veal, and two pounds of the fat of the udder. Chop well, mix them very well together with the tops and bottoms of two rolls soaked in milk, and four or five eggs. Season with pepper and salt, add the squeeze of a lemon, and just fry them enough to harden them in two ounces of butter. Put strong veal broth into the stewpan, enough to cover the Frieatelles, and let them simmer in it for one hour. Serve with the same broth strained and poured over the Frieatelles. Brown Veal Collops.—(Family Recipe.)—-Cut thin Collops from a fillet of veal, beat well with a rolling pin, fry the Collops for six minutes in butter. Make a roux of flour and butter in a stewpan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is brown, add some chopped mushrooms, minced shallot, salt, and pepper, shake all well together, pour it upon the Collops, squeeze a lemon over, and serve at once. (Collops are called Scotch Collops, as Collop is an old Scottish word for a slice.) Blanquette Of Veal.—(Family Recipe.)—A Blanquette only differs from a fricassee in the way it is served. A Blanquette is served in a pile in the middle of a dish, whilst a fricassee is arranged round the sides. A Blanquette of Veal can be made of the breast, or shoulder, or neck. In the following recipe, which was given by a noted French chef, the fillet is used, and beef is added to give nourishment and flavour. Put two pounds of beef and three pounds of cut-up fillet of Veal into three pints of water, with a few scraps of chicken, a sliced carrot, a little turnip, and a very little salt. When the whole is half cooked make a roux of flour and butter, pour a little broth from the Blanquette on the roux, cook the roux for ten minutes on the fire, but do not allow it to boil. Add it to the Blanquette, which must only simmer, not boil. Simmer till the meat is thoroughly cooked. Take out the meat and keep the Veal only hot. Pass the sauce through a sieve into a clean stewpan, put the sauce again on the fire. Clear it from fat, reduce the quantity to two-thirds, stirring and skimming it all the time with a wooden spoon, lest the sauceVEAL i88 should adhere to the pan. When the sauce is reduced add, off the fire, four yolks of eggs, and mix them well into it. Let the sauce simmer, on no account let it boil, for six minutes. Then put in the Veal, add an ounce of butter, the juice of a lemon, stir well, and serve up very hot. Garnish with button mushrooms. A Simple Blanquette.—Cut the meat off a neck of Veal, do not mince it but shape it like little cutlets, keeping them rather thin. Flour them, put them in a braising-pan with two slices of fat bacon, a little parsley, a sliced onion, and just enough good stock to nearly cover them. Put a buttered paper on the top and simmer very gently for two hours. If possible add a few mushrooms to the Blanquette, using the peelings for the stew and the mushrooms in the sauce. Take the pan off the fire, strain and skim the broth, lay the Veal on a dish to keep hot. Make a roux of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, pour the broth on it, pass it through a hair sieve, mix in the yolks of two eggs, put the veal in a stewpan with the mushrooms, moisten it with the sauce, and heat it up very gently, never allowing it to boil. Arrange the pieces of Veal in the middle of the dish, and pour the sauce over and round them. Frieandeau Of Veal.—This can be made from the tender part of the leg, but the fillet is much better. Take three pounds of the finest and thickest part of a fillet of Veal, the part called by butchers the “cushion.” Lay it with the outside or skin part uppermost. Trim the Veal, and beat it with a wet cutlet— bat. Lard it well, the rows of larding being straight and close, and be careful that the larding needle carries each bit of bacon well inside the Veal. The Veal must not be too thick, or the flavour of the bacon will not get into it. About two inches thick will generally be enough. The larding covers only the top of the frieandeau. Put in a stewpan all the trimmings of the Veal, six ounces of sliced bacon, two ounces of sliced carrots, and of sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, half an ounce of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Lay the Veal upon the vegetables, of course keeping the larded part uppermost. Set the pan on a moderate fire, moistening the contents with melted butter. Let it cook slowly, watching it carefully, then pour in half a pint of good broth, continue the cooking till the broth has somewhat reduced and thickened, when add a pint and half more. The broth189 FRICANDEAU OF VEAL should now be level with the top of the meat. At the first signs of boiling take the pan from the fire, and put it into a gentle oven. Let it simmer for an hour and quarter with the pan uncovered, basting it often with its own broth. By this time the meat should be done and the broth a good deal reduced, gelatinous, and savoury. Baste now without ceasing until you have glazed the Fricandeau, then take it out and dish it on a very hot dish. Quickly strain the gravy from the stewpan, skim off any grease there may be, and pour the gravy over the meat. This is Wyverris method. Another way is to pour the broth gently round the meat, being careful not to touch the larding, which must be protected by a thick buttered paper. Let the Veal simmer in a covered pan in a slow oven for four hours. Watch it, and add more broth as required. Baste the meat, or the Fricandeau will be dry. At the end of the four hours put hot coals on the top of the pan for fifteen minutes. Watch the larding, and when the tops begin to look yellow the Fricandeau is done. Put a little clear glaze on the top, dropping as little as possible on the larding. Take great care that the tips are not crushed or charred, and never add salt after the first. If you do the larding will be discoloured, and the Veal will turn red. The Fricandeau should be perfectly tender and yet firm ; if it is soft and stringy it must have been cooked too fast. Serve with a pur6e of sorrel, spinach, or endive. Three pounds of fillet of Veal will make a Fricandeau for six people. Veal Cutlets.—Veal Cutlets can be cut from the neck, but they are much better if cut from the fillet. The meat must be well beaten, or it will be very indigestible, and, for the same reason, Veal Cutlets must never be thicker than half an inch. They should be four inches long. They can be braised with all their trimmings, and some vegetables, in a pint of stock for three- quarters of an hour. Then take the Cutlets up, lay them be- tween two dishes and put a weight on them. Cut slices of lean ham the shape and size of the Cutlets, and fry them in butter for five minutes. Reduce the broth in the pan, add mushroom trimmings and thicken if necessary. Boil it up, and skim off all fat. Egg and breadcrumb the Cutlets, fry them a golden brown, and serve with a slice of ham between each, and the sauce poured round. Or the Veal Cutlets can be egged and dipped in bread-190 VEAL crumbs with which finely-minced herbs have been mixed, then allowed to rest, coated again with egg and breadcrumb and fried. If they have not been already braised the Cutlets will take longer to fry than Mutton Cutlets. Or the Cutlets can be braised, then coated with flour and egg and then again with good brown sauce well flavoured with mushroom peelings. Let them rest, give a third coat of fine breadcrumbs well moistened with butter, sauter the Cutlets till they are a golden brown, drain, and serve dry on a napkin. Hand maitre d’hotel sauce. Veal Cutlets should be served with a puree of Sorrel, or Spinach, or part Sorrel and part Spinach, with the broth they have simmered in turned into a sauce and poured round. Or a puree of Tomatoes may be served. Calf’s Feet.—These are generally sent in ready prepared by the butcher, but a cook should know how to do it, especially when in the country. Wash the feet thoroughly, then scald them in boiling water, and scrape them to get off all the hairs. Remove all the fat from between the clefts of the hoof. Put the four feet into a gallon of cold water, bring it to the boil, and let them simmer for six hours. Then carefully strain the liquid into an earthenware pan. Let it get cold, take off the fat from the top, break up the jelly and put it in a basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the pan. There will be about two quarts of stock from the four feet; it ought to be clean and white, but not transparent. This quantity, when the jelly is not intended for invalids, will require from half to three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine to make it firm. (See Chapter XV.) Calf’s Tong-ue. —This makes an excellent luncheon dish. Having trimmed a good-sized fresh Calf’s Tongue, soak it in cold water for an hour, then put it into a casserole or stewpan and cover it with hot broth. Bring to the point of boiling, and then slip into the pan three ounces each of onions, carrots, turnips, and leeks, all cut into small dice, an ounce of celery, a bag con- taining a dessertspoonful of dried herbs, and seasoning. Simmer for about three hours, and then take out the Tongue, and strain off the broth. At once, while it is hot, scrape off the skin of the Tongue, and put it away. This should be done the day before the dish is wanted. Having taken the fat off the broth, proceed to thicken three gills of it, bring to the boil, skim, and191 CALF’S TONGUE add half a gill of Marsala. Next, having sliced up the cold Tongue in slices three-eighths of an inch thick and placed them in a casserole, strain the sauce over them, adding a gill of tomato puree. Let them marinade in this till wanted, then set the pan over a low fire and gently warm the Tongue. When hot, take out the pieces of Tongue, arrange them on a hot silver dish in a line, overlapping each other, and pour the sauce Over them. Garnish with a ring of Jerusalem Artichokes, Brussels Sprouts, or any nice vegetable. [ Wyvern. ] Macaroni, with a little tomato puree, makes a nice garnish for this dish. Calf’s Head en Tortue.—In the recipe for Mock Turtle Soup given on page 45, it was advised that the meaty portions of the calf’s head should not he put into the soup but that they should be set aside for another dish. Wyvern gives an excellent method of preparing them. Season the pieces of meat with pepper, salt, and spiced pepper. Take a saute-pan with high sides, melt in it two ounces and a half of butter or clarified suet over a moderate fire, and then stir in three ounces of lean raw bacon, minced small, six ounces of minced onion, four each of turnip and carrot, an ounce of celery, half one of parsley, and the washed and minced peelings of half a pound of mush- rooms. Season with salt and spiced pepper, and put in a teaspoonful of dried basil. Fry all these till they soften and turn colour, then put in an ounce of glaze, and moisten with a pint and a half of the broth saved for the purpose when the Mock Turtle Soup was made the day before. Bring slowly to the boil, and simmer till the vegetables are done; then strain off the broth into a bowl, let it get cold, and take off the fat. To turn the broth into Sauce d la Tortue, prepare a roux with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour. Moisten with the broth, bring to the boil, put in the half pound of mushrooms (the trimmings of which were used in the saute-pan), cutting them into neat pieces if large, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Then empty the contents of the pan upon a hair sieve with a bowl beneath it, pick out the pieces of mushroom and set them aside on a plate, and pass the sauce through the sieve. Now put the strained sauce into a stewpan, stir into it a gill of freshly-made tomato sauce and a tablespoonful of Marsala, and mix well. Finally add theVEAL 192 mushrooms, and the meaty pieces of the Calf’s head, and warm up gently without boiling. Serve within a neat border. Calf’s head is genei-ally tasteless, but this will be found an admirable way of serving it, and the sauce is more delicate and less rich than that generally called “ en tortue.” It makes a useful entree, and is popular at a small luncheon party. The whole, or even the half, of a calf’s head dressed en tortue is never a tempting-looking dish, although it is sometimes described as “a most magnificent object for the centre of a supper-table.” Its appearance is not improved by the custom of fringing the ears with scissors, and of sticking into the head plated orna- mental skewers, on which cray-fish, cocks’ combs, truffles, and olives are impaled. PORK. Pork Cutlets.—Cut them from a neck of Pork which has very small bones. Sauter them for twenty minutes, turning them with the cutlet-tongs till both sides are evenly coloured. Serve with tomato sauce. Or simmer the Cutlets in stock flavoured with tomato sauce. Pork Cutlets from the Loin.—These differ from Pork Chops in being cut without bone. It is most important to serve them straight from the pan, and not to keep them waiting. Cut the cutlets without bone, exactly one inch thick, and leave a little fat on each. Make a sauce by putting the trimmings (without any fat), some of the bones, a small sliced onion, three leaves of sage, and a little salt and pepper, into one pint of water. Simmer it for four hours, then pass it through a sieve and reduce it by boiling to half a pint. Thicken as usual, and add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Peel, core, and quarter six apples, take out the pips, and put them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of cold water. Set the pan on a moderate stove till the apples are quite done and clear. Sweeten them a little, and beat them well up with half an ounce of butter. Fry the Cutlets golden brown in butter, without using breadcrumbs or flour, and sprinkle them with finely-powdered sage. Put the apple in the middle of the dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and pour the sauce round them.193 HASHED MEAT AND MINCED MEAT RECHAUFFES. The reason that Hashed Meat is so often leathery and tasteless is that the cook has poured hot sauce over cold meat, or else she has thoroughly cooked the meat a second time, probably by boiling it. Cooked meat does not require this treatment. It must be steeped for some hours in the sauce prepared for it, and then be gradually heated up in that sauce. To make a Hash properly, cut off every part that has been browned in the previous cooking, all the skin, and most of the fat. Use these fragments, with all the bones, well broken, and any vegetables that can be spared, to make as good a broth as possible. A little glaze is sure to be wanted. Thicken the broth, if required, with the usual roux. On no account use Harvey or Worcester sauce, but depend for the flavouring on dried or fresh herbs, adding as a finish to the sauce one dessertspoonful of Marsala. Cut the slices of meat neatly, and let them steep in the sauce from before breakfast till an hour before luncheon. Then put the slices of meat into a pan with the sauce, warm it up either over a very low fire, or, which is far better, set the pan in the bain-marie with boiling water three inches deep all round it. Keep the pan closely covered, and let the contents keep warm. Five minutes before luncheon slightly increase the heat under the pan, but on no account let the Hash or the sauce boil. When the steam rises from the surface, turn Hash and sauce into a silver or plated dish previously heated by scalding it with boiling water, and serve at once. It is far the best plan to serve Hashed Meat in a dish with a spirit-lamp underneath. If cold meat is treated as above the result will be as different as possible from the dish usually known as Hash. Slices of cold leg of mutton are excellent if warmed in the sauce given for Hashed Venison. Beef is excellent as a Hash if the gravy is really good, and flavoured in making it into sauce with a little mustard- flour, and a little dried powdered Horseradish. Minces.—The best mincing-machine I know is the Enterprise, to be had from the American Hardware Enterprise Company, 86 Dale Street, Liverpool. This machine does not grind the meat, but snips it just as would be done by a pair of scissors. Pass the meat through the machine, and then proceed exactly as for o194 HASHED AND MINCED MEAT RECHAUFFES Hash, warming up the mince in any appropriate sauce according to the meat of which it is made. Mince is most useful for rissoles, kromeskis, croquettes, timbales, cassolettes or casseroles, for which I shall give simple recipes. Or Mince can be poured inside a high case of mashed potato ; used to fill patties; served plain with poached eggs and curls of fried bacon ; or put into shells, dusted with rasped crumbs and grated cheese, and baked for a few minutes. But Mince never can be fit to eat unless it is carefully prepared. Invalids, aged people, and persons who cannot masticate meat easily, often enjoy Mince made of fresh meat. For this, get a good slice from the top of a round of beef, not the meat sold for steaks. Take off all the skin, fat and gristle, cut the meat into strips, and pass it twice through the Enterprise Mincer. It will then be in a pulp. Put the meat in a saucepan and mix with it some beef tea, or, if allowed, good gravy flavoured with vegetables. Mix the meat and liquid well together, till they are about the consistency of cream. Add a little pepper and salt. Put the pan over a very slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till all the red colour of the meat has left it. It will take from ten to fifteen minutes, and the stirring must be continuous, so that the Mince is always kept in motion and never allowed to settle at the bottom of the pan. The Mince must be thoroughly cooked through, although it must never be allowed even to simmer. Allow a dessertspoonful of beef tea to each ounce of pulped meat. (Water can be used.) When done it is a nourishing puree of meat, and looks like thick cream. Serve with mustard, and dry toast if liked. Croquettes,—Prepare the mince as has already been de- scribed. Minced ham or very finely-grated tongue should be added to mince made of chicken, rabbit or veal, and the sauce should be flavoured with mushroom peelings. A little minced mushroom improves all minces. After the mince has been thoroughly warmed up in the sauce, pour it on a cold dish and leave it all night to set and get firm. Next day mould the mixture into balls, or thickish fingers, egg and breadcrumb each, fry lightly, then let them rest, egg and breadcrumb a second time, and fry a golden brown in a deep bath of boiling fat. Serve dry on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley.RISSOLES *95 Rissoles,—Make some puff-paste, and roll it out thin, less than a quarter of an inch thick. Cut into rounds two inches across; do not bake the paste. Put a little of the mince on one round, another round on the top, wet the edges and press the two closely together in the shape of little turnovers. Have ready some vermicelli crushed into little bits of about a quarter of an inch long. Egg the Rissoles, roll each in the raw vermicelli, and fry a golden brown. Serve as Croquettes. Cassolettes.—Cassolettes are tiny drums made of mashed potato or rice, and fried a golden brown. Scoop out the insides and ffll them with mince and sauce, after heating the Cassolettes in the oven. Put a little round of tongue on the top if the mince is of chicken. Or make a little cover of potato or rice like the drum itself. Casseroles.—Put a pound of Carolina rice into a stewpan with a quart of water, a sliced onion, and two ounces of butter. Simmer till the rice is quite soft, but still whole. Drain, and pound it to a paste in a mortar, adding pepper, and a table- spoonful of grated cheese, and moistening with a little butter. Stir in the yolks of three eggs, pass all through the sieve, and pat the mixture out on the pastry board till it is about an inch and a half thick. When quite cold cut it into cylinders two inches long and an inch and a half in diameter. Egg and breadcrumb the Casseroles, fry them a golden brown, and set to get cold. Then cut off one end neatly, scoop out the inside of each Casserole, fill each with the mince and sauce as usual, wet the cut-off tops, and stick them on. Heat the Casseroles in the oven and serve as Rissoles. Be careful to scoop out enough of the rice inside, as if too much is left the Casseroles will be heavy. Kromeskis.—Prepare the mince of chicken and ham or game over night, and stir it into a quarter of a pint of thick white sauce. Add minced mushroom or mushroom peelings if possible. Blend the yolks of two raw eggs with the mince and sauce, and put it to set. Next day make a frying batter. Put four and a half ounces of flour into a bowl, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it a quarter of a pint of water, half a salt- spoonful of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Mix thoroughly till the batter coats the spoon with a196 HASHED AND MINCED MEAT RECHAUFFES coating the eighth of an inch thick, adding water if necessary. Twenty minutes before using stir in the whites of the two eggs well whipped. For the Kromeskis cut out of thinly-sliced cooked bacon eight or a dozen pieces about three inches long and two inches wide. Lay a tablespoonful of the mince in the centre of each of these, roll them up, dip them into the batter, and fry in a bath of boiling fat till they turn a light brown colour. Drain, dry, and serve on a napkin. \Wyvern.'] Kromeskis look like tiny rolls, or large corks. For browla meat of course use brown sauce. For simpler Kromeskis use the frying batter given at page 157. Timbale of Macaroni.—Boil one pound of pipe macaroni in two quarts of water, with peppercorns and salt. When tender drain it on a sieve, and leave it to get cold. Then cut the macaroni into pieces half an inch long, butter a round plain pudding mould well, and arrange the pieces of macaroni with their ends on the bottom of the mould, sticking upright side by side quite close together. Lay other rows of Macaroni round the side of the mould in the same way, lying one upon the other with the cut ends against the side of the mould. Then take the cold mince and sauce, wet a spoon and press the mince little by little against the macaroni with the back of the spoon till the mould is completely filled to the very top. Put a buttered paper over the mince, and steam for one hour. Grated cheese should flavour the sauce, and a little extra white sauce, or brown sauce flavoured with mushrooms, should be made to go round the Tim- bale when it is turned out. Or line the mould with puff paste rolled out rather thick. Boil half a pound of macaroni till nearly tender, then simmer it in white sauce, fill the mould with the warm macaroni and wTarm mince and bake in the oven for one hour. Make a lid of paste, before you put the mould in the oven, fasten it tightly on at the edge. When you take the Tim- bale out of the mould cut the lid three parts round just inside the edge, so that it will lift back when the Timbale is helped. Serve on a napkin. Little Timbales.—Line dariole moulds with well-boiled macaroni. Cut the macaroni in lengths, so that by bending it in a spiral form it will fit the moulds. Fill with cold mince and sauce or quenelle, and steam for one hour. Serve with mush-LITTLE TIMBALES 197 room sauce, and put minced cooked mushrooms with the mince. Or if quenelle is used for the moulds scoop out the centre of each and fill up with chopped cooked mushroom. QUENELLES. Wyvern’s method of making Quenelles is as simple as it is good. If his directions are exactly followed success must result. Quenelles are made of forcemeat, for which see page 208. To form the Quenelles take two tablespoons, set one of them to heat in hot water, take the other in the left hand, fill it with forcemeat, smoothing the latter with the blade of a small knife dipped in warm water, and forming it in dome shape, having as much above the level of the spoon as within it. Then lay the warm spoon over the dome, inverting the cold one, leaving the Quenelle in the former, out of which it must then be gently turned for poaching. To poach the Quenelles : Lay them in a buttered saute-pan, pour in gently, and without touching them, enough hot broth or water to cover them, set the pan over the fire just to bring the water to boiling point, then cover the pan and lower the heat to simmering for ten or twelve minutes, according to the size of the Quenelles. Take them very carefully out of the water, and drain them on a cloth. In the forcemeat for Quenelles eggs are required, and the meat—whether chicken, veal, rabbit, game, or fish—should not only be uncooked but be as fresh as possible. Chicken Quenelles with Mushrooms.—Take a large fowl which has been merely plucked, not drawn or trussed. Clean it and cut it up, taking all the white meat off, and keeping the legs for some other dish. Throw the rest of the carcase, skin, fragments, bones of the wings, and the giblets, into a stewpan, and make as good a broth as possible, adding the usual vegetables and seasoning. Let it simmer for two hours, skin it, strain it, and thicken it. Prepare this broth for the sauce the day before the Quenelles are wanted. For the Quenelles make six ounces of stiffish panada (see page 208) with breadcrumbs soaked in stock, well pounded, and stirred over the fire to thicken, adding a pinch of salt. When ready, take rather more than half the quantity ofQUENELLES 198 panada than you have of chicken meat, and the same amount of freshbutter that you have of panada; mince the chicken in the machine, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve, then mix with it the panada and butter; moisten the mixture with the yolks of two eggs beaten, and a spoonful or two of the sauce (which really is a good domestic veloute sauce), to bring it to a smooth and paste-like consistency. Pass through the sieve again. Now mince as finely as possible sufficient cooked mushrooms to allow of a teaspoonful for each Quenelle, and moisten the minced mushroom with a little of the sauce, reduced to the consistency of thick cream. When mixed the mince should be about as thick as jam. Form the Quenelles, and, when they are'neatly formed, scoop out of each a little hollow with the handle of a saltspoon, slip in a teaspoonful of the minced mushroom, and close over the aperture with Quenelle mixture. Poach, as has been explained above, drain, and dry the Quenelles on a cloth. If the Quenelles are to be dished high, a socle or foundation is required. This is not generally intended to be eaten ; in fact, the socle is sometimes made of melted wax candle consolidated with flour and beeswax—a ridiculous and wasteful custom. Wyvern suggests a socle of boiled rice, flavoured with salt, pepper, the pulp of a couple of tomatoes, and some finely-grated cheese, stirred Avell with melted butter, and made firm by the addition of the yolks of two or three eggs, according to the quantity taken. This should be formed into a flat ring in the dish the Quenelles are to be served in, put into the oven for a few minutes to set, then brushed over with reduced white sauce, and kept hot till wanted. The Quenelles, carefully lifted after being poached, must be arranged round the top of the ring. The centre should be filled with some nicely cooked vegetable, such as green peas, moistened with the sauce. A tablespoonful of cream should be stirred into the vegetable just before serving. A less expensive socle can be made of rice, boiled, pounded, moulded into shape with a wooden spoon, brushed over with egg, and coloured in the oven. The rice can of course be flavoured as desired. This socle is generally made to fit the dish to be used, and is flat, but it can easily be shaped into a ring. It is a useful socle for sweet dishes, and if wanted for a cold entree the socle should be spread with fresh butter.i99 QUENELLES Quenelles made of game require a brown sauce. This is easily managed by melting one ounce of glaze in one pint of the broth whilst it is cooking. Quenelles of Fish must be made of white fish only, and only such white fish as haddock and whiting. No rich or oily fish can be used for Quenelles. The proportions are eight ounces of pounded uncooked fish to five ounces of panada and five ounces of butter. The broth for the sauce must of course be made of the bones and trimmings of the fish. Additional trimmings may be needed, and are readily supplied in the way of heads of fish by any fishmonger. Quenelles of Cheese are an excellent savoury, whether baked or fried, but to be successful with them Wyverns directions must be implicitly followed. Take seven ounces of flour of the best quality and well dried, put it in a bowl, make a hollow in the centre of it, add two ounces and three-quarters of butter, and mix to a paste with a gill and a half of water; dust into it a couple of pinches of salt, and one of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. When mixed, and free from stickiness, add, one by one, five eggs, lastly putting in a coffeecupful of grated Parmesan, and three tablespoonfuls of finely-grated ham. Pat the paste with a wooden spoon into a flat round shape on a floured pastry board, and out of it make a number of small oval rolls the size of an olive. Have ready a deep-sided saute-pan with boiling water, reduce the heat, and poach the rolls till set firmly. Drain them, laying them on a cloth to dry. Then arrange them in a fire-proof gratin dish, moistening with just sufficient good white sauce, mixed somewhat thinly, to barely more than cover them, dredge a layer of Parmesan over all, and bake in a gentle oven for twelve or fourteen minutes. Serve in the fire-proof dish straight from the oven. Or, after draining the Quenelles and letting them get cold, brush them over with egg, roll them in finely-sifted crumbs, let this set, and then fry in hot fat till the Quenelles are of a golden colour. Serve them when dry piled upon a napkin and dusted over with Parmesan. These are called Quenelles de fromage frites. For the little Quenelles served in soup teaspoons and not200 QUENELLES tablespoons must be used to form them. These Quenelles must be lighter than the other kind, and it really is impossible to pound the meat too much. And the Quenelles must be made of meat suitable to the stock of which the soup is made, fish, game, or chicken. Veal and rabbit can of course be substituted for chicken. For these little Quenelles when made of veal, Wyvern's advice is: Pound, after passing through the mincing machine, five ounces of lean uncooked veal; let this be done thoroughly. When the veal is reduced to a paste add by degrees three ounces of panada, and when the veal and panada have been well mixed and pounded, add three ounces of butter. Go on pounding, and at last add two yolks of eggs and a season- ing of half a saltspoonful of salt and the same of spiced pepper. Mix all well, and then pass it through a hair sieve into a clean bowl. Stir it about again with a wooden spoon for five minutes, •then test it, after the fashion of French cooks, by dropping a small piece into boiling water. If the mixture is too stiff dilute it with a spoonful or two of milk; if not stiff enough, add one spoonful of panada, again mixing all well together. Form small Quenelles of this forcemeat each of the size and shape of an olive. Poach the Quenelles in stock if possible, drain them, and add them to the soup just before serving. Quenelles are only used in clear soup. Many Cookery Books recommend the use of udder of veal in Quenelles, but butter is much better. If the udder is used the proportionate quantity is the same as that given for butter. Quenelles are too often heavy and stodgy, but if properly made they are light and delicate. If liked, the upper part of the Quenelles can be ornamented with tiny strips of cooked tongue, supposing that white meat has been used for the Quenelles. The texture of Quenelles should be even and firm, of the consistency of a moderately hard-boiled egg. If they crumble when cut, or if they are hard and soft in little patches, the cook has saved herself the trouble of pounding the meat; in the first case by adding too much breadcrumb soaked in milk, and in the second by using cooked meat. The meat and panada should be pounded for quite half an hour before the eggs are added, and a full quarter of an hour afterwards.201 POTTED MEAT OR FISH. Cook the meat till it is quite tender, scrape it finely, and rub it through a wire sieve. Pound it in a mortar, allowing four ounces of butter and a few grains of cayenne pepper (five to ten grains) to every pound of meat. Of course, salmon, lobster, tongue, or shrimps will need less butter than beef or chicken. Potted meat should not be dry, but on the other hand it must not be too moist. Put the meat into small pots or jars and cover it with clarified butter. For this, melt butter gently in a stewpan over the fire. It will become a transparent oil', and the buttermilk will sink to the bottom as a sediment. Wait till the clarified butter has cooled, and pour it when just warm over the meat. I If you pour it on when hot it will make the meat greasy. Keep the pots in a cool, dry place. Most potted meat is spoilt by being mixed with spice. This is supposed to bring out the flavour of the meat, but in reality only hides it. The only spice which should be allowed is pepper. Ham or tongue, if to be eaten at once, are excellent mixed with stiffly-whipped cream, or with butter beaten to a cream. For potted game make stock of the bones, reduce it to thin glaze and use this instead of beating the game up with butter. Or when the game is minced warm it up in a good sauce made with this glaze; when well mixed let it get cold, and then beat it up with as much butter as it will absorb without being greasy. Anchovies must be drained of oil, wiped, washed, filleted, and dried before pounding them with butter. Rub them through a sieve, and be careful to remove the spines. Bloaters are good potted, all the bones having been got rid of by working the fish well through a sieve after having filleted it. Potted meat wrhen not for immediate use must always be beaten up with butter, not with glaze or with cream. STUFFING. If Stuffing is properly made it will in every case cut clean with the meat, instead of falling into the dish in a messy, half- cooked, and wholly distasteful condition. Wyvern’s recipe for ordinary Stuffing is by far the best with which I am acquainted. It is essential to have all the ingredients chopped or minced as finely as possible, and it is quite as essential that the herbs shouldSTUFFING 202 be first well scalded, and then thoroughly dried in a cloth, before they are minced. This Stuffing, which is used for turkey, hare, or veal, ought to look green and be made from fresh herbs. But if dried herbs have to be used a little spinach colouring must be added, or the stuffing will have a raw look. Weigh six ounces of dry, well sifted, stale breadcrumbs. Measure either a dessertspoonful of chopped green thyme and of green marjoram, or, if dried, take a tablespoonfyl of the powdered leaves, half of each. Sift the herbs to get rid of atoms of stalk. Mince finely enough parsley to fill a heaped-up table- spoonful. Chop up three ounces of fresh beef suet and the very finely pared rind of half a lemon. Mix all together with a wooden spoon in a large bowl, and dust well with salt and mignonette pepper. Lastly, bind the mixture with two well- beaten eggs ; work well together, and it will be fit to use. Sausage stuffing for a turkey should be made with two parts of sausage meat (see Sausages) and one part of dried breadcrumbs. Soak the crumbs in stock, add herb seasoning, or, if possible, thyme, marjoram, and parsley as above. Season with salt, and bind the mixture with two eggs. Eggs are absolutely necessary, as without them the Stuffing will never be firm. Chestnut stuffing’.—Peel thirty chestnuts. Scald them and take off the inner skin. Eoast them thoroughly, pound them with two ounces of breadcrumbs. Or simmer them in milk, in which case moisten them and the breadcrumbs with the milk. Mix all well together, add three ounces of butter and two well- beaten eggs. Season with just a teaspoonful of salt and one dust of mignonette pepper. Stuffing1.—(Family Recipe.)—Chop the liver of the bird, mix with it an ounce of breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of minced shallot, and a dust of pepper and salt. Put all inside the bird, as in this way it will be kept moist. Do not add any butter. These proportions are for a partridge, and must of course be varied according to the size of the bird to be cooked. This Stuffing is not intended to be eaten separately, as most of it is absorbed in the bird. Sag’e and Onions.—Put four onions into boiling water for five minutes, then change the water and simmer the onions in203 SAGE AND ONIONS fresh boiling water till they are tender. Blanch eight nice sage leaves in boiling water for five minutes. Mince them and the onions as finely as possible. Add six ounces of breadcrumbs, and work well together with a wooden spoon, dusting plentifully with Herb Pepper. Mince two ounces of beef suet into powder, add it to the sage, onions, and crumbs, and bind the whole with two eggs. This quantity is enough for a couple of ducks. Stuffing- fOP Fish.—Stuffing is useful for haddock, pike, etc. Eight ounces of breadcrumbs, three to four ounces of beef suet minced to powder, one teaspoonful of minced thyme, two teaspoonfuls of minced parsley. Dust well with pepper, and add a little salt. Work well together, and add the yolks of two eggs. Work the stuffing a second time, and add the white of one egg. FORCEMEAT. It is a great mistake to suppose, as many cooks and many writers on cookery do, that Forcemeat and Stuffing are two names for the same thing. They are, in fact, totally different. Forcemeat belongs to French cookery, and forms a dish in itself, as well as a garnish or addition to such things as pies and galantines, whilst stuffing is a purely English method of filling up cavities in some kinds of poultry, game, or fish, and in a few joints of meat. In making Forcemeat it is of great importance to use only fresh meat, to pound all the ingredients well, to mix them thoroughly together, to make the Forcemeat as quickly as possible, to keep it cool whilst it is being made, and then at once to set it in a cold larder till wanted. Panada is the foundation of all Forcemeat. There are two kinds of Panada, one made of crumb of bread, and the other of either wheat-flour or potato-flour. For Bread Panada, which is most generally liked, the quantity required of crumb of bread is thoroughly soaked either in warm water, warm stock, or warm milk. It is then squeezed through a cloth and wrung dry, after which it is put into a saucepan, gradually moistened over a low fire with whatever liquid the bread has been soaked in, and stirred with a wooden spoon without stopping till the PanadaFORCEMEAT 204 detachos itself from the sides of the saucepan. It will then be done, and must be set in a cold place to cool and dry. For the other kind of Panada put a gill of water, or milk, or stock, into a saucepan, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a little salt. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as it boils up stir in one tablespoonful and a half of either wheat-flour or potato-flour, or as much flour as the liquid will take up. Work the Panada well with a wooden spoon at the side of the fire till it becomes a rather firm paste. Put the saucepan back over a low fire so as to slightly dry the Panada. When it detaches itself from the sides of the saucepan lay it on a rather flat dish, butter the surface very lightly to keep the Panada from drying up, and set it in the larder to get cold. The proportion of Bread Panada in Forcemeat is ten ounces of Panada to one pound of meat, and ten ounces of butter. For white Forcemeat Wyvern uses eight ounces of uncooked veal, chicken, or rabbit, or a mixture of all three. The meat must be free from all skin, fat, and sinew. Pound it thoroughly, pass it through a hair sieve, and be careful to weigh it after it has been passed through the sieve. The weight of eight ounces must be kept up. Have ready five ounces of cold Panada, and five ounces of butter. Blend the pounded meat with the Panada little by little, then add the butter little by little, add two yolks of egg, season with salt, pepper, and mace if liked. Work vigorously for some time, then pass through the sieve. Moisten if necessary with a spoonful or so of veloute sauce. Forcemeat made in this way is excellent in pies, either laid as a floor on the dish, or made up into little balls, and dotted about among the meat and jelly in the pie. In a galantine this forcemeat makes all the difference between an agreeably flavoured and a dull distasteful dish. Suet and udder of veal are both recommended for Forcemeat, but to my mind butter is far preferable. If the udder is used it must be gently simmered in water till tender, set to get quite cold, and then pounded like the meat and passed through the sieve. The quantity is the same as given for butter.205 SALTED MEAT. Common Salt, Bay Salt, Saltpetre, Sal Prunella, and coarse brown Sugar or treacle, are all used in salting meat. Common Salt is made from the evaporated brine which collects by the trickling of surface-water on to the great beds of Rock Salt, or Mineral Salt. For instance, in the salt-mine at Northwich, in Cheshire, which covers an area of forty acres, the brine is found at a depth of some forty yards, lying at the top of a bed of rock salt thirty-six yards thick. Rock salt is reddish-brown in colour, but in England the salt evaporated from the water which rests on it is of the purest white and of absolute cleanliness. Bay Salt, on the contrary, is dirty, so much so that in France it is called sel gris, and is known to con- tain fifteen per cent, of impurity. The reason is that Bay Salt is produced from the evaporation of sea water stored in shallow basins, with mud floors, instead of the iron or prepared-clay salt- pans set over fires wrhich are used for rock salt. However, at Salt Lake in America the water is, like that of the Dead Sea in Palestine, 6^ times salter than any sea, and the evaporated salt is pure enough to be used without any artificial refining. Bay Salt, in spite of its impurities, was (and is) frequently used in curing meat, as it is said to give a sweeter flavour than other salt. Saltpetre is found on the surface of the earth, chiefly in Bengal, Chili, and Burmah. It is not a European product, although in Germany it is very successfully imitated in chemical “ Saltpetre Plantations.” Saltpetre is used in salting meat when, as in a cold round of beef, the meat is required to look red. Sal Prunella, so often mentioned in old recipes, is nothing but Saltpetre which has been fused and poured into moulds. The composition of the Saltpetre has not been altered in the least. The name comes from pruna, or live coal (so called in alchemy), on account of the appearance of the molten mass of Saltpetre/1' Sugar makes the meat mellow and rich. The very coarse brown sugar of old days is now so difficult to get that common molasses or treacle, in the same proportions, is frequently substituted for it. In salting meat it is better to let the meat hang for two or * Sal Prunella can be bought from any good chemist.206 SALTED MEAT three clays so as to become tender. But it must be fresh when salted, although it need not be quite freshly killed. If it is not fresh it will spoil. Very cold weather is quite as bad a time for curing meat as very hot weather. In hot weather the meat changes before it can be affected by the salt, and in severe weather the meat is so hardened and its juices so congealed that no salt can penetrate it. It is a good plan to sprinkle meat with water and hang it up to drain a few hours before salting is begun ; this cleanses it from any blood, and makes it more delicate. If the weather is at all frosty, warm the salt in a frying-pan over the fire, or it will not rub sufficiently into the meat. When saltpetre is used the regular proportion is half an ounce of salt- petre to half an ounce of sugar or molasses (one dry table- spoonful is equal to one fluid ounce), and one pound of salt. Brisket of beef should be jointed so as to let the salt in. Every pipe or kernel in meat must be removed, and all holes filled with salt. Many people rub in only half the quantity of salt and salting material at first, and finish a day or two later. When the meat is laid in the brine see that the brine completely covers it, and turn it every day. At this period it is a capital plan to use a common garden syringe, squirting the brine all over the meat, and getting well into any holes, or chinks, or hollows. Nowadays cooks are not like the old servant in Mrs. Gaskell’s “ Ruth,” who nearly accepted an unwelcome lover because he had a pig ready for lulling and she had such a good recipe, as yet untried, for hams. Curing meat is too hard work and too cold work for a woman, and is much better done by a man. A friendly butcher can often be induced to cure home-fed meat, or his own meat, by a family recipe. When bacon and hams are cured, they should be wiped and dried, and put into bags made of coarse muslin, and then hung up in a moderately warm place. Flies are more partial to salt meat than to fresh, and will spoil it at once if unprotected. Muslin is better than paper for bags, as paper breaks in damp weather. Smoked meat should be hung up in a dark place. Meat to be smoked used to be hung for at least three weeks in a chimney over a smoky fire made of wood, peat, shavings, and sawdust. Nowadays this method is seldom possible, and a substitute has been found in Crosse and Blackwell’s “ Cambrian Essence of Smoke.” This207 SALTED MEAT preparation, if brushed over the meat when it is dried from the pickle, really gives the flavour of the old-fashioned chimney curing. A good brine, sufficient for twenty pounds of beef, is made by mixing together three pounds of salt, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil these for twenty minutes in two gallons of water, skimming off all scum. Then let it get quite cold before you pour it over the Beef. For a small piece of Beef the quantities can be easily reduced, following the same proportions. A good test of brine is to try if an egg will float in it. If the egg sinks the brine is not strong enough ; if on the contrary the egg floats, the brine is right. Of course Beef can be bought ready salted, but butchers are apt to make it too salt. A small piece of brisket for Pressed or Spiced Beef is easily salted at home. If the brine described above is used the Beef will be ready in a fortnight, having been turned every day and well basted with the brine. The salting pan or tub must be covered with a clean piece of tamis-cloth or other porous material. The same brine can be used repeatedly, provided that it is boiled up occasionally, skimmed, and a little salt and saltpetre added to revive its strength. The juices extracted from the meat weaken the brine, as well as the loss from its combination with the meat. In cooking Salted Meat two things must be recollected. First, that in order to make it tender, all Salted Meat must be put on the fire in cold water. And, secondly, that it is next to impossible to cook Salted Meat too slowly. If, as in the Family Recipe for a Round of Beef, the meat is covered with broth instead of water, the broth must be as nearly cold as it can be to be liquid. COLD MEAT. Spiced Round Of Beef.—(Family Recipe.)—Procure a round of beef weighing from thirty-five to forty pounds ; remove the bone and lay the beef in a stone pan. Well rub into the beef all over (not omitting the sides of the round as well as the top and bottom), a mixture made of four pounds of salt, two pounds of coarse brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and two ounces of sal prunella. Turn the beef every day, and well rub into it the brine which it makes. Let it remain in pickle for one2oS COLD MEAT month. When ready for cooking let the beef be closely bound into shape with coarse webbing. Lay it in a large kettle or pot, and cover the beef with cold broth, not water. Add plenty of rough vegetables sliced, such as carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. Dry in the oven enough ginger, cloves, mace, and peppercorns to make two ounces of each when dried and pounded fine in a mortar. Add these to the beef. Bring the kettle slowly to a very gentle boil, and then let it simmer perceptibly for twelve hours. Turn the beef at the end of six hours. It must on no account be allowed to boil, or it will be hard and tasteless. Remove the kettle from the fire, but let the beef remain in it for two days, when it will have become perfectly cold. Take off the webbing, and the beef will be ready for eating. Pressed Beef.—No Pressed Beef is so good as that sold by Benoist, 36 Piccadilly. It can be had in any quantity from a couple of pounds upwards. But if the beef is prepared at home Wyvern's recipe is far the best. Choose a nice piece of the salted brisket, not too fat, weighing about five pounds. Put it into cold water, and bring slowly to the boil, skimming off all scum. When clear, let it boil, putting in (ready cut up) six ounces each of onions, carrots, and turnips, one ounce of celery, and a muslin bag containing twelve peppercorns, a blade of cinnamon, a dessertspoonful of mixed dried herbs and the rind of a lemon. (Wyvern adds to the bag an uncut clove of garlic, but probably most people would prefer a shallot.) Simmer now for at least four hours, then take out the meat, remove the bones immediately, and wrap the joint securely in a clean napkin. Lay this upon a baking-sheet or flat dish, and put another on the top of it with weights sufficient to press it firmly. Leave it thus during the night. The next morning take off the weights, remove the cloth, trim the meat into a neat rectangular shape, and with a little diluted glaze varnish it lightly over. When this has set a second coating may be laid on, but avoid having this too thick. Rolled Spiced Beef. —Choose a piece of thin flank or brisket of Beef; if the latter the bones must be taken out, and this should be done before the meat is salted. Wash the meat in cold water and spread it out flat. Dry it, and lay a thin coating of the following seasoning over the inside. Half an ounce of209 ROLLED SPICED BEEF mace, and of cloves, both powdered, half an ounce of freshly ground peppercorns, a dessertspoonful of finely powdered thyme and the same of marjoram, the chopped peel of a lemon very thinly pared, and a quarter of an ounce of Nepaul pepper, all mixed thoroughly together. Roll up the meat, fasten it round with tape, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it tightly with a string. Cook it very slowly with vegetables like Pressed Beef. The flavour will be much improved if two gills of Marsala are added during the last hour of simmering. When done set the meat under a weight till quite cold, then untie the string and tape, take oft' the cloth, trim the Beef neatly, and glaze it. Welsh Beef.—Rub two ounces of saltpetre into a round of Beef, let it rest an hour, and then rub it with equal parts of pepper, salt, and allspice. Keep the Beef in the brine for fifteen days, turning and rubbing it every day. Then put the Beef into a large earthenware bowl, first coating the bottom of the Beef with a layer of suet. Put another layer over the top of the Beef, and then cover the jar with a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake in a slow oven for eight hours. Then pour off the gravy and let the Beef get cold before it is taken out of the bowl. To dress Salted Round of Beef, a Ham, or a Tongue.— (Family Recipe, 1849.)—Wrap the meat in a wet napkin, put it into a cool place, and change the wet napkin every day for five days for a Round of Beef, four for a Ham, and two days for a Tongue. Then put the meat into boiling water for three minutes only, and after that simmer as slowly as possible till done. This process makes the meat moist, juicy, and tender. Hamburgh Pickle.—(Family Recipe.)—To a gallon of water put a pound and a half of bay salt, two ounces of brown ‘sugar, and one ounce of saltpetre. Dissolve these by boiling. When cold pour the Pickle into a glazed pan and keep the meat sunk in it by putting a weight upon it. In about ten days the meat will be fit for use, but it may be kept in this brine near six weeks without becoming salt. A gallon of brine will cover a small piece of beef. Pork and Tongues can by no other Pickle be rendered equally good. It suits small and fat pieces of beef. Sea salt is in all cases preferable to fossil salt (see page 205). This Pickle will keep six weeks in summer and two months or more in winter, but it will not bear boiling up again.210 TONGUES. The Tongues generally eaten are Ox Tongues, but Reindeer Tongues, Deer Tongues, and Sheeps’ Tongues are all used. All Tongues should be eaten cold. If the Tongue is to be cured at home there is no better pickle for it than that given on page 211. But before putting the Tongue into it the root should be taken off and used for Tongue Root Soup. The Tongue should lie in the pickle for seven days, being turned every day. It will then be what shopmen call “ a green tongue,” and will hardly need to be soaked before it is boiled. Put the Tongue into lukewarm water, and simmer it till quite tender ; this will be in three and a half or four hours. Take the Tongue out of the saucepan and skin it carefully. Push a table close to the wall of the kitchen, set a clean board upon it and another board upright against the wall. Whilst the Tongue is hot trim it if necessary, and set it on the flat board with its root close against the upright board. Pin the Tongue down to the flat board with two strong steel forks. Make it a nice shape, and fasten the tip down to the board with a sharp skewer. Prop the Tongue up with weights on each side, and let it get quite cold. If this is not done the Tongue will contract and curl up as it cools. When quite cold release the Tongue and glaze it (see Glaze). If “ Green Tongues ” are bought Messrs. Whitfield, Clarges Street, Piccadilly, have them of excellent quality. When Tongues are left in pickle for weeks, then smoked, and hung up to dry, they will require from twelve to twenty-four hours’ soaking in cold water. This is generally needed for Reindeer Tongues. But if Tongues have not been hung very long, soaking for six hours will be sufficient. All dried Tongues must be put on in cold water, brought to boiling point as slowly as possible, and simmered for at least four hours. Juniper berries give a rich and peculiar flavour to dried Tongues, although this is not always liked. The Tongue is rubbed over with a handful of fine salt, and allowed to drain until the following day. If the Tongue weighs seven or eight pounds, rub it thoroughly with one ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of the coarsest brown sugar, and half an ounce of freshly-ground blackTONGUES 2X1 pepper, all well mixed together. Then rub it with three ounces of bruised juniper berries, and leave the Tongue in the pan for two days. Now add eight ounces of bay salt dried and pounded, and leave the Tongue in the brine for three days more. Then pour on it half a pound of treacle, and leave it for a fortnight in the brine. (If treacle is not liked use six ounces of sugar instead of two when the Tongue is first rubbed.) At the end of the fort- night hang the Tongue up to drain, wrap it in brown paper, and let it be smoked for two or three weeks. (In these days coat the Tongue with Essence of Smoke.) Sheeps’ Tongues are always served fresh. They should be simmered in stock till quite tender, then skinned, trimmed, and fastened on a board to get cold. Glaze them and serve three or four on a dish, garnished with parsley. Tongues should always be boiled with a couple of carrots and a large bunch of herbs. These should be put in after the scum has been skimmed off the water or stock when it boils up. The vegetables much improve the flavour of the Tongue. To Cure Tongues.—(Family Recipe.)—First wash the Tongue well and perfectly clean, and wipe it pretty dry with a clean dish cloth. Then rub it well with a little brown sugar, and afterwards with a dessertspoonful of the Pickle. For the Pickle take half an ounce each of bay salt, saltpetre, and sal prunella. Keep the Pickle in a bottle for use. Salt the Tongue with common salt, and let it lie in the Pickle for one Aveek, turn- ing it and rubbing it every day. Then take the Tongue out of the Pickle, dry it a little with a clean dish cloth to prevent its drop- ping. Dust it well Avith flour and hang it up in a muslin bag. Tongues are best eaten at the end of a fortnight after they have been hung up, but they will keep Avell left in the Pickle. If the Tongues have been hung put them to steep the night before they are used. If you take them out of Pickle they Avill need steeping longer. But boil a Tongue for three hours at least, xvhether it has been hung up or taken out of pickle. BRAWN. Brawn, a word of great antiquity in Northern Europe, originally signified any fleshy and muscular part of the body, such for instance as the rounded muscles of the thumb. InBRAWN 212 England, however, Brawn has long been the name for the flesh of a pig ; even in 1386 Chaucer spoke of “ the Brawen of the tusked Swyn.” In the language of cookery nowadays Brawn means a cold preparation of very gelatinous meat, such as a pig’s head with the ears and tongue. If a calf’s head is used it is often called hy the old name of Mock Brawn. The feet of the pig, with the bit of leg just above each, should always be used, as they make the Brawn much firmer. In old days Brawn was kept in pickle for several weeks. The following Family Recipe was given by the cook at Christchurch, Oxford, in 1808. The cook at Magdalen College used bran instead of malt. Pickle for Brawn.—Take double the quantity of water that Avill be enough to cover the Brawn, add to it two handfuls of whole malt, let it boil for an hour and a half, then add to it salt enough to give it a strong relish, and boil it again for an hour and a half more. Skim it clean, then strain the malt from the pickle and when the pickle is cold pour it clear from the sediment into the pan or tub you mean to keep the Brawn in. Make fresh pickle every fortnight, and rub the Brawn gently with salt every week. In these days the Brawn is kept in brine only for a week, being well basted every day. The feet will take quite seven hours to cook, so they should be put on first. The head will be done in four hours. Choose a large saucepan, and just cover the Brawn with cold water. Bring it slowly to the boil, adding vegetables and seasoning as for soup. Let it simmer gently till the Brawn is quite tender, and the meat parts easily from the bones. Strain the meat from the broth and vegetables, and free it from every atom of bone. Take two steel forks and tear the meat Avhilst quite hot into small pieces, seasoning it well with salt and spiced pepper as you do so. Put the meat as quickly as possible into the Brawn tin, using a large spoon and pressing each layer firmly down till the tin is full. Put the tin in the larder, lay a cloth over it, put a 7 lb. weight on that (supported by a board), and leave the Brawn for twenty-four hours. When the Brawn is wanted dip the tin into hot water ; this will loosen the meat from the sides of the tin, and the Brawn can he slipped out upon a dish. The broth makes a good foundation for soup.213 PICKLE FOR BRAWN The reason that the meat for Brawn is torn and not cut is that the rough edges of the pieces adhere to each other better than if a knife were used. In old days fingers took the place of the forks now recommended. Brawn must be divided and put in the tin when quite hot in order to secure all the solidifying power of the gelatinous meat. Old-fashioned Brawns were too large ; in these days half a pig’s head (about four pounds in weight) and two of the feet would be enough ; and the tin should not be larger than eight inches in diameter. The tongue must always be used, as Brawn is rather tasteless. Many cooks warm up a pound of boiled ham in the broth the head was cooked in, and add it, cut into small pieces, to the spoonfuls of Brawn. Excellent Mock Brawn.—(.Family Recipe.)—Take a calf’s head with the skin on, singe off the hair, and rip it down the face. Wash it clean and put it in the Hamburgh Pickle (page 209) for three days. Then boil it in a cloth till the bones will come out. Boil in another pan a gang (four) of calf’s feet, and bone them. Boil also a beast’s tongue which has been in pickle. When soft tear all the meat to pieces, season well with mace and pepper, fill the tin, and press under a large weight. Mock Brawn can be made from a fresh calf’s head as well as from a pickled one. In this case split the head in two, take out the brains, break the jaw-bones, and soak the head in cold water for two hours. In all cases remove the eyes, for, in spite of all that recipes may say, eyes never can look pretty sliced into patterns and used as decorations. Cook the fresh calf’s head in the same way as the pig’s head already mentioned. But, to give it flavour, two pounds of cooked ham must be added to it. The broth in which the head has been cooked makes of course the best of all foundations for Mock Turtle Soup. For the following recipe I am indebted to a friend, in whose family it has been successfully used every year during four generations. A Norfolk Recipe for Pickling1 a Ham Weig’hing’ Fifteen to Big’ll teen Pounds.—One pound of treacle, half a pound of coarse brown sugar, half a pound of bay salt, one pound of common salt. One ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of sal prunella, to be finely pounded. The Ham should lie a month in the pickle after being well rubbed. It must be214 BRAWN turned and basted every other day. When taken out of the Pickle let the Ham dry for a day or two, standing on end, and then brush it over with the Essence of Smoke. This essence gives all the flavour of the chimney curing of old days. To Cure a Ham.—(Family Recipe.)—Half a pound of com- mon salt, the same of bay salt and of coarse brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre. Pound all the salt, and then boil it and the sugar in a quart of good ale. When all is dis- solved let the pickle get cold. Keep the Ham in the pickle for three weeks, turning it and basting it every day. The above quantities are for a Ham weighing twenty pounds. Pickle for Bacon.—Weigh each flitch, and allow for every stone (a stone of meat weighs eight pounds) one pound of salt, two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and three ounces of coarse brown sugar. Sprinkle the flitches with salt, and drain them for twenty-four hours. Mix the salt, bay salt, salt- petre, and sugar thoroughly together, and rub all well into the flitches, rubbing both ends as well as both sides. Do this every day for a month. Then hang up the flitches to dry, putting each into a bag of coarse muslin. To Cure Pig'S’ Cheeks.—Do not use any saltpetre, or the cheeks will be hard. Clean the two cheeks well, and take out the bones. Rub well with salt, let the cheeks drain, and next day rub them again with fresh salt. Then mix four ounces of salt with five ounces of coarse sugar, cover the cheeks with the mixture, and turn them every day. They wrill be sufficiently cured in twelve days. See Beans and Bacon, page 224. BACON, HAM, AND SAUSAGES. Bacon is too often considered to cook itself, and to require no attention. But Bacon cannot be good unless it is properly cooked, and careful toasting is by far the best method of cook- ing it. Toasted Rashers.—Cut the Bacon in thin even rashers or slices, trimming off the rind (which will be useful in the stock- pot). Toast each rasher before a clear fire, either on a toasting- fork or in the Dutch oven. It will be done when the fat looks transparent. Always serve rashers in a hot-water dish.FRIED RASHERS 2t5 Fried Rashers.—If the rashers are liked crisp, put them, when prepared as above, into the frying-pan, and let them cook till the fat looks transparent, turning them once or twice. If the rashers are cooked too quickly the fat will scorch and become hard. If crisp rashers are not liked, melt a little bacon fat in the frying-pan before they are put in, and turn them over and over in it till they are cooked. Broiled Rashers.—When the rashers are prepared, roll each up, and fasten it with a little skewer. Broil them on the gridiron till crisp. Baked Rashers.—Melt a tiny piece of bacon fat in a baking-tin. Cut the rashers from the back of the side of Bacon, as the fat and lean in that part are more equally divided. When the melted bacon fat is hot, but not scorching hot, lay the rashers in the tin, being careful to put the fat half of one rasher over the lean half of the other. Bake for about ten minutes in the oven. Boiled Bacon.—Soak the piece of Bacon for at least an hour in cold water. Then put it into lukewarm water and let it boil gently, allowing twenty-five minutes for every pound of Bacon. Take off the rind whilst the Bacon is hot, and use it in the stock-pot. Cover the Bacon with raspings of crust. It may be served hot or cold. To Boil a Ham.—The great point in boiling a Ham is to do it as slowly as possible. Old-fashioned cooks half filled the pan with hay, or leather shavings, and added beer, ale, and home-made wine, with a mixture of saltpetre and water. But it is far better to replace these strange ingredients with vegetables. In buying a Ham inquiry should be made as to how long it will need to be soaked. A small and rather fresh Ham may not require more than eighteen hours’ soaking. But, as a rule, a Ham should be soaked in cold water for forty-eight hours, the water being changed three or even four times during that period. After the Ham has been soaked scrub it well with a stiff brush, so as to remove all the smoke and discolouration on the outside, and trim off any ragged or rusty parts, reserving them for the stock-pot. Put the Ham into a large pan or ham-kettle, and cover it one inch deep with cold water. Let the water heat as slowly as possible, so that it may be an hour and a half or twoBACON, HAM, AND SAUSAGES 2l6 hours before it comes to the boil. Skim it carefully till all the scum has been removed. When the liquor is perfectly clear, put in a shallot, a stick of celery, two turnips, two or three onions, and three carrots. Add, in a muslin bag, a bunch of parsley, of thyme, and of marjoram, some chopped lemon peel, and twelve peppercorns. Cover the pan closely, reduce the heat and let the Ham simmer very gently for five hours. At the end of that time take the pan or kettle off the fire, lift the Ham out, peel off the outside skin, and, if necessary, trim it again. If the Ham is to be particularly good, pour a bottle of Marsala into another stewpan, lay the Ham in it, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer for one hour more, turning it now and then. If wine is not liked, strain off the vegetables, add them to the stock- pot, and use the liquor in which the Ham has been boiled instead of the Marsala. If the Ham is to be served hot, cover it with thin glaze or with raspings of crust, and serve with spinach slightly flavoured with Marsala. If the Ham is to be cold, lay it in an earthenware pan covered with a marinade or pickle made of half Marsala and half the liquor the Ham was boiled in. Let it stay all night in a cool larder, then either glaze it or cover it with raspings. When the Marsala is drained from the Ham and has got quite cold, take off the fat, and put the wine back into the bottle. It can be used again, adding a little fresh wine to it. Champagne can be used like Marsala, and gives a much finer flavour. To Bake a Ham.—When the Ham is soaked, scrubbed, and trimmed, lay it rind downwards in a large piece of paste rolled out one inch thick. Wet the edges of the paste from a basin of cold water, draw and pinch them together, and fold them over on the upper side of the Ham. Be careful to close the paste very securely, so that no gravy can escape. Put the Ham in a steady but not a fierce oven. If the Ham is fairly large it will take five hours to bake. A very small Ham will require three hours. Remove the paste and peel off the skin whilst it is hot. If only part of a Ham has to be cooked it is much better to bake it than to boil it. To Steam a Ham.—This is an excellent way of cooking a small Ham. When the Ham has been soaked, scrubbed, and trimmed, put it into the steamer over boiling water. Allow217 TO STEAM A HAM twenty-five minutes to every pound of Ham, and keep the water boiling hard. Cooked Ham.—Cooked Ham can be toasted, broiled, or fried, like Bacon. If broiled, the slices should be well peppered. Sausages.—(Family Recipe.)—Take two pounds of fresh pork, using both fat and lean in equal parts, but avoiding the coarse fat from the inside of the pig. Mince the pork as finely as possible, and then pass it twice through the mincing machine. Blanch two dessertspoonfuls of sage, and mince it. Add four ounces of freshly-made breadcrumbs, season with pepper and a dust of salt. Mix all thoroughly together, dusting it well with herb seasoning. Keep the Sausage-meat in a cool place. When wanted, do not use skins, but form the Sausage-meat into small round cakes, three-quarters of an inch thick, flour them, and fry them in butter for ten or fifteen minutes, turning them often. Oxford Sausag’es.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pound and a half of leg of pork, a pound of leg of veal, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, and allow a dessertspoonful of blanched and minced sage to every pound of meat. Remove every particle of skin, also all the fat, from the pork and veal. Mince the pork and veal as finely as possible, and mince the suet to a powder. Soak the crumb of two rolls in water. Take two whole eggs, add them and the crumb to the Sausage-meat, and season with pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and roll into Sausages about the length and thickness of a finger. Fry in bacon fat over a quick fire. The eggs should be beaten up in a little cold water. Egg and breadcrumb the Sausages before you fry them. To Cook Sausages.—Plenty of time should be allowed, for if Sausages are put into a hot pan, or if they are cooked too quickly, the skins will burst. Sausages are much better when they are partly boiled before they are fried. To do this, prick the Sausages well, and put them intoJqot, but not boiling, water. Bring them very gradually to the boil^and let them simmer for five minutes. Drain them, melt some beef suet or dripping in a frying-pan, add the Sausages, and let them heat gradually. Turn them over and over so that they cook equally, and fry a nice brown. Serve them, well drained from fat, on toast. Or make some good mashed potato, shape it into long ovals, bake it on a buttered baking-tin, and when very hot lay the potato ovalsBACON, HAM, AND SAUSAGES 2 18 on a hot dish with a Sausage upon each. Sausages can also be baked. Prick them well, set them on a buttered baking-tin in a moderate oven, and bake them a nice brown. Serve on mashed potato or toast as above. (This recipe applies to Sausages which have been put into skins.) TWENTY HOMELY DISHES. Lancashire Hot Pot.—This excellent dish, which is partly a stew and partly a pie, may be made quite simply or flavoured with oysters and kidneys. Any kind of meat, or poultry, or rabbits, can be used for it, but mutton is far the best. Pans are sold expressly for Hot Pots, but a deep fire-proof casserole, with a lid, answers better than any- thing. For a Plain Hot Pot take three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton and form it into neat cutlets, trimming off nearly all the fat. Put a layer of these at the bottom of the casserole, seasoning well with pepper and salt. Take three pounds of raw (or, if liked, partly cooked) potatoes, and four onions. Slice the potatoes, and slice the onions lengthwise. Fill the casserole nearly full with alternate layers of meat and vegetables, sprinkling each with a saltspoonful of salt and the same of pepper. Pour in half a pint of good broth, or stock, and then make a roof of sliced potatoes arranged so as to slightly overlap each other like tiles. Put a few little bits of butter on the top of the roof, put on the lid of the casserole, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours or three hours and a half. For the last half hour keep the lid off so as to let the potatoes brown. If the oven is not moderate the Hot Pot will get dry ; it should be looked at from time to time, and if it is getting dry more broth must be added. Just before serving pour in half a pint of strong gravy, made boiling hot. For an Elaborate Hot Pot pro- ceed as above, only adding layers composed of sheeps’ kidneys sliced (four kidneys will be required), and bearded oysters (four oysters to a layer). Add a sprinkling of cayenne pepper to the seasoning of these layers. Instead of the first half-pint of stock use the oyster liquor, also half a pint of water in which the beards of the oysters have been stewed.219 SHEPHERD’S PIE ’ Shepherd’s Pie.—Use for this one of the large white china fire-proof souffle cases, crimped to look like paper. The pie can be made of any sort of cold cooked meat, or of several sorts, but the meat must be thoroughly minced, and there must be an abundance of gravy. Begin by putting a thickish mattress of well-made potato puree at the bottom of the dish. Then fill the dish to within an inch of the top with meat and gravy, prepared in this way. Put the meat once or twice through the Enterprise Mincer, which cuts it like scissors. See that all fat, skin, and gristle is removed. Add to the meat a slice or two of cooked ham, bacon, or tongue, or, if liked, a little minced liver. Allow for each half-pound of meat one small onion peeled and minced, and if possible one mushroom minced, and fry them till just coloured in half an ounce of butter. Thicken with half an ounce of flour, and continue frying till the onion is a pale coffee-colour. Add gradually half a pint of stock, so that the sauce will be about as thick as good cream. Boil it up well, let it cool a little, mix in the meat, season with salt and pepper, boil up again, and pour the meat and sauce on the mashed potato in the dish. Fill up to the top with another layer of potato, smooth this with a knife dipped in hot water, and brush over the surface with beaten egg. Brown the top in a moderate oven. This pie is much liked at shooting luncheons. If the meat and potato are both put in cold, set the dish in a large pan of hot water, and heat it in a very moderate oven. If this is not attended to the gravy will boil over, and the meat will be over-cooked and hard. Pie for a Picnic.—Make the pie as usual, using game, or chicken, or pigeons. For baking it, put on a common crust of flour and water. When the pie is cold take off this crust, and put the pie into a deep fire-proof dish, allowing two inches between the top of the pie and the rim of the dish. Cover the pie with good mashed potato exactly to the rim of the dish, but not above it. Bake in the oven till the potato is a light brown. This potato covering is much better for a picnic or shooting luncheon than ordinary crust. Toad in a Hole.—This is a combination of meat and batter, the Toad being represented by the meat. Take a pound of beef- steak which has been previously jugged, so that it may be quite220 TWENTY HOMELY DISHES tender. Put eight ounces of flour into a basin, make a hole in the middle of it, break two eggs into it, and add by degrees one pint of milk. Beat this batter well, and season it with pepper and salt. Cut up the beef-steak in small pieces, being careful to cut with the grain and not across it, lay it in a well-buttered York- shire pudding tin, and cover it all over with the batter. Bake it for an hour and a half. Mushrooms are a great addition to the Toad, and some people like half a pound of sliced kidney cooked with the beef-steak. Oysters too may be used. Sausage-meat makes an excellent Toad, without beef-steak. Or underdone cooked meat minced and warmed up in gravy can be used. Kidney Dumpling1.—Cut a Spanish or Portugal onion in half. Take out part of the middle and fill the space with a sheep’s kidney cut into four, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. Join the two halves of onion together, draw a paste (see Meat Puddings) over it, and bake on a buttered tin in a moderate oven for about an hour. On no account boil this dumpling. It is a favourite Avinter luncheon for gentlemen. Rabbit and Onions.—This good old-fashioned dish is often entirely spoilt by being cooked too fast. The rabbit is tough and tasteless, and the onions half cooked. The dish requires ample time ; in fact, if Avanted for luncheon at one, it should be begun not later than half-past ten. The rabbit is infinitely better when stewed, and not boiled, and plenty of onions must be used. Cut up the rabbit, Avash the pieces in lukeAvann Avater, and then blanch them for tAvo minutes in boiling Avater to seal the juices. Drain, and put the pieces of rabbit into a steAvpan Avith tAvelve ounces of onion Aveighed after only the tAvo outer coats have been removed. Add half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of mignonette pepper, a dessertspoonful of mixed herbs in a muslin hag, and a sprig of parsley. Cover the rabbit and vegetables with hot water, bring to the boil once, skim off scum as it rises, then ease off the fire and let the steAV simmer in a coArered pan for tAventy-five minutes. By this time it will be done. Take out the rabbit, take out the muslin bag, strain off the broth, and pass the onions through the sieve, moistening them with a little broth as you do so. Melt one ounce of butter in another saucepan, and mix into it by degrees one ounce of flour, stirring carefully OA7er a sIoav fire for five minutes. Do this patiently. Noav addRABBIT AND ONIONS 221 the broth and the onion puree, a little of each at a time. Bring it to the boil, arrange the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, and smother them with the onions. Bubble and Squeak.—Cut some thin slices of cold boiled beef, and pepper them. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and fry the beef slices in it till they are a golden brown. Have ready' some hot Colcannon (see Cabbage) heaped up in’ a hot dish, ai\d arrange the slices of fried beef,round it. Or fry some nicely- boiled, drained and chopped Cabbage in the-pan the beef was fried in. Keej^the slices of beef -hot between two hot plates set over, boiling water, arrange them -round the Cabbage, and serve very hot. Irish Stew.—{Family Recipe.)—Take any pieces of mutton which have been cut off the loin or breast. Remove all fat, and cut them in pieces four inches square. Put them in a stewpan Avith three or four whole onions, pepper and salt. Cover all with boiling water, put the lid tightly on the pan, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly for one hour. Then add one gill more boiling water. Wash and pare two pounds of potatoes, put them in the pan among the mutton, and boil them till quite soft. Stir till the stew is quite smooth, and serve hot. Irish Stew.—Irish Stew is generally spoilt by being watery. It is much better to follow Wyvern's advice and to use strong mutton broth instead of water for the foundation. In this way Irish Stew is not only much more palatable but much more nutritious. Take the cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, set them aside, and put the scrag end and all the trimmings into a stewpan. Cover with cold water, set the stewpan over a low fire, and. bring the meat slowly to the boil, skimming oft' all scum. Now add two onions sliced lengthwise, pepper and salt, and a dessertspoonful of dried herbs in a muslin bag. Simmer for two hours, then strain the broth, picking out the onion and setting it aside. Now re-heat the broth, and when it is quite hot, but not boiling, put in the cutlets. Put on the lid of the stewpan and simmer very gently till the meat is very tender and parts easily from the bones. Cook two pounds of potatoes separately, boiling them till thoroughly done, then drain- ing them, and mashing them to a puree with a few spoonfuls of broth. Stir the onions into the potatoes, and pass onions ando o n TWENTY HOMELY DISHES potatoes through a hair sieve. Make this puree hot, adding the rest of the broth, put the cutlets into it, and turn out very hot into a hot dish. Another Irish Stew.—Use the short curved bones of a neck of mutton, putting the actual scrag end in the stock-pot, and reserving the best end for another dish. Allow one bone or two bones for each person, and allow twice the weight of pared and sliced potatoes to the weight of the mutton. Do not cut up the mutton, only divide the bones. Put a layer of the potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of sliced onions, then the mutton, which must be well peppered. Upon the mutton spread a layer of sliced onions and upon that another layer of potatoes. Put the pan in the oven or on the hot plate, and let it stew for half an hour. At the end of that time add by teaspoonfuls at a time one gill of boiling water. Stew on for two hours more. If the best cutlets of the neck can be used so much the better. Irish Stew has the great advantage of never spoiling by keeping hot after it has been cooked. Irish Stew should be helped into soup-plates, and eaten with fork and spoon. A Brady.—This is a favourite stew in South Africa, and is made exactly like Irish Stew, only that the potatoes and onions are replaced by tomatoes. Beef Pie with Potato Crust.—Mince underdone cold roast beef, season it with pepper and salt, and be careful to use no fat. Spread a layer at the bottom of a pudding dish; over the layer of minced beef spread a layer of mashed potato. Repeat these two layers till your dish is full. For the crust take half a pint or ten ounces of mashed potato, add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one well-beaten egg, half a pint of milk, and beat all well together until very light. Then work in enough flour to form a pliant paste, and roll it out. Cover the pie with the crust, rolling it rather thick, cut a hole in the middle, and pour in gently a gill of gravy for every pound of meat. Or add to the meat and potato, before you put the crust on, the cold gravy left from the roast beef. Bake till the crust is a light brown. The crust can, if liked, be well brushed over with a well-beaten egg before serving. Every layer of meat should be well dusted with pepper, and a dust of mustard flour on each is generally liked.POTATO OR PEDRO PIE 223 Potato OP Pedro Pie.—(Family Recipe.)—For this Pie an oval tin is required, about ten inches long and four inches deep. The tin has a perforated lid which can be lifted off, and there is a small valve or chimney in the lid to allow of the escape of steam. Place at the bottom of the tin a pound and a half of cutlets taken from the best end of a neck of mutton, neatly trimmed and quite free from fat. Or the same quantity of tender rump-steak can be used. Dredge the meat lightly with flour on both sides, season with pepper and salt, and add half an onion sliced thin. Pour in a teacupful of good stock. Put the tin in the oven, well covered with buttered paper instead of the lid, and bake from one hour to an hour and a quarter. Boil about three pounds of mealy potatoes, and mash them very smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and an ounce of butter. Pile the mashed potatoes on the perforated cover of the tin, and rough them to look like rock. The potatoes should be three inches thick, and should be piled high round the valve or chimney. Now take the tin with the meat out of the oven, and quickly skim all fat from the surface. Put the lid with the potatoes on, and replace the tin at once in the oven. A second hour will finish cooking the meat, and ought to brown the potatoes. Before serving, pin a folded napkin neatly round the tin. Send up a hot plate ready to receive the cover. The cover must not be lifted off the tin till the pie is about to be helped. Savoury Stew.—(Family Recipe.)—This is made from the part called in old days the “hoffie,” or “ hough” of an ox. It is now called the shin, and is the part extending from the fetlock joints of the hind legs to the hock. Take a good-sized Hoffle, break the bone in two or three places, put it in a stewpan with a stick of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, eight onions, one turnip, two carrots, and a tablespoonful of peppercorns. Pour in six quarts of cold water. Tie the pan up close and set it in the oven, leaving it there all night. If not strong enough let it cook two or three hours more, taking care it does not boil awray too much. When done enough strain it through a sieve, take all the meat and gristly part away from the bone and skim off all fat. Put the meat into the stew with part of the onions after straining. If three pints of stew are sent to table add half a gill of good ale, a little salt, and a very little cayenne. Boil all up together.TWENTY HOMELY DISHES 224 After the stew is put into the tureen add a few pieces of oatcake toasted brown. (It would be well to take the marrow out of the bone, but this is not mentioned in the original recipe.) Christmas Stew.—(Family Recipe)—Put four quarts of water into a large stewpan. Add one pound of fresh beef and one pound of fresh mutton, cut into pieces the size of an egg, also the fore- quarters of a hare, an old fowl, a partridge (or an old grouse), a bit of salt beef, three or four sliced onions, three sliced carrots, one turnip cut up small, a bunch of herbs, and twelve peppercorns. Do not add any salt, as the beef will make it salt enough. Have ready ten thoroughly roasted potatoes, squeeze the insides among the other vegetables (not using the skins). Cut up a small loaf, and put the slices into the pan with the meat and vegetables. Let it all simmer over a very slow fire till the meat is quite tender, and the bread and potatoes have made it thick by being dissolved in the stew.' (There may also be four apples pared, cut in quarters, and put in with the rest.) This dish requires six hours at the very least. The longer it stews the better. Broad Beans and Bacon.—Choose a pig’s cheek which is not dry and hard, otherwise it must be soaked for four horns and will not be nearly so good as if cooked when fresh. Put it in a saucepan with five quarts of water, and let it simmer gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Shell two pounds of Broad Beans. Half an hour before the pig’s cheek is done take out two quarts of the liquid in which it is boiling, and replace instantly with two quarts of boiling water. Put the two quarts of liquid in another pan, throw in the Broad Beans, and boil them in the liquid for from twenty minutes to half an hour. Serve the pig’s cheek in a large hot dish. Moisten the Broad Beans with a spoonful of the liquid, and put some of them round the pig’s cheek in the dish, the rest in a vegetable dish. The remainder of the liquid makes excellent second stock. Baked Beans and Pork.—Put a knuckle of Pork and a little salt into an earthenware jar which holds five quarts. Then fill it half full with shelled Broad Beans and add cold water up to the brim. Put on the lid of the jar, which must have a hole in it to allow the steam to escape. Set the jar in the oven, and let it remain there twelve hours. The beans and meat will be perfectly cooked by that time in rich gravy. The gravy will form a jelly when cold.TRIPE 225 Tripe.— “ At the top a fried Liver and Bacon was seen, At the bottom was Tripe in a swinging tureen.” Oliver Goldsmith, who hated Liver and said that Tripe was his “ utter aversion,” thus described the dinner at which his own haunch of venison was to have appeared, made into a pasty. His friend’s wife, “little Kitty, so famous for crust,” had indeed made the pasty, but the baker had forgotten to put it in the oven, and the poor poet got no dinner. Liver and Bacon is now hardly ever seen, and Tripe is never seen, on the tables of well-regulated families. But were a fashionable doctor to order Tripe (really a light and nutritious food), his patients and their friends would as usual follow each other like sheep, and would declare that Tripe was the only meat they could touch. In view of this contingency I will ex- plain how Tripe should be cooked. Tripe is part of the stomach of a pig, and tripe-dressers are persons who prepare it for cooking. It can be cooked in either milk or broth. For the former method order two pounds of what is called “double Tripe.” Blanch it by putting it into cold water and bringing it to the boil. Blanch three onions also. Cut the tripe into neat pieces, divide the onions in half, and put both into two pints and a half of milk, seasoning it with pepper and salt. Stew the Tripe and Onions gently for an hour to an hour and half. Take out the onions and chop them, lay the Tripe on a hot dish, thicken the milk with a couple of ounces of flour, boil it up, add the onions, and pour it over the Tripe. Serve very hot, in “ a swinging tureen,” that is, a dish with a lamp under it. Half milk and half water can be used. Or broth can be substi- tuted for the milk. Liver and Bacon.—Cut a pound of fat bacon into slices, and fry them slowly in a frying-pan. Cut a sheep’s liver in slices, flour them, take the bacon out of the pan, and fry the liver in the bacon fat. Put the liver on a hot dish, and the bacon round it. Fry an ounce of flour brown, add a pint of boiling water, stir well, add pepper and salt, and boil the gravy for a couple of minutes ; then pour it over the meat. Or a calf’s liver, which is considered more delicate, can be used. Cut the slices in the shape of cutlets, and fry them with the bacon, adding pepper, QTWENTY HOMELY DISHES 226 salt, and chopped parsley. Arrange the liver and bacon in alternate slices on a hot dish, put the flour in the frying-pan with a minced shallot and a squeeze of lemon juice, let this warm up and pour it through a strainer into the hot dish in the centre of the liver and bacon. Liver must be used quite fresh, or it will be dry and leathery. If it is fried too much the flavour will be lost. Marrow Bones.—If the Marrow Bones are very long they must be sawn in half. Cover the end of each bone with a stiff paste of flour and water, using plenty of flour. This paste is to prevent the Marrow from escaping from the bone whilst being cooked. Tie a cloth over each bone, and put the bones in a roomy saucepan filled with boiling salted water. Let the Marrow Bones boil for three hours. Take them out of the saucepan, remove the cloth, and all the paste, and pin a clean napkin round each bone or half bone. Send the Marrow Bones up on a hot dish, and send up dry toast in a toast rack. See that a proper Marrow Spoon is provided to help the Marrow. The Marrow Bones should be served upright. Pease Pudding1.—Tie up one pint of dried split Peas as loosely as possible in a clean cloth. Put them in a saucepan of cold water on the fire, bring to the boil, and boil them for at least two hours. Then rub the Peas through a sieve, and mix with them half an ounce (or an ounce) of butter, a sliced onion, pepper and salt. Now tie up the Pease Pudding as tightly as possible in a well-floured pudding cloth, and boil it for one hour. If any of the Pease Pudding is left use it to thicken and flavour broth. Pease Pudding used to be served only with pork, but it is good in winter with any meat. Lentils and Haricot Beans can be cooked in the same way. The Dried Green Peas from Italy make a much better Pease Pudding than the common split peas. Spinach colouring should be used for it. Suet Pudding-.—In using Suet for any dish two things are absolutely essential; first that the Suet should be perfectly hard and dry, and then that it should be minced as finely as possible. Nothing is more disagreeable and nothing more common than to find solid lumps of suet in stuffing, or in mince-pies, or in any dish which contains it. To mince Suet, first shave it with a sharp knife into the thinnest possible shavings, then dust these with flour, and arrange them in a ridge along your chopping-SUET PUDDING 227 board. Hold the point of the knife firmly with your left hand, take the handle in the other and chop and mince across the ridge of Suet, working slowly up and down its length, till the Suet becomes almost a powder. Be careful to remove all skin or hard bits before you begin shaving the Suet. For Suet Pudding take a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of minced Suet, two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and a very little salt. Mix these with about a quarter of a pint of water, tie up the pudding in a floured cloth, and boil for one hour. Do not use any egg. Milk may be used instead of the water. Some cooks use corn-flour instead of ordinary flour, but this makes the Suet Pudding heavy. The ingredients should be very thoroughly mixed, so as to form a smooth paste, and in tying up the Suet Pudding allowance must be made for its swelling as it boils. Suet Dumplings are made in the same way, only divided into bits of paste the size of an egg. Many people like them boiled in the same saucepan with boiled beef, being put in an hour and a half before the beef will be ready. Children like them with treacle ; or they may be eaten with a little broth poured over them. Yeast Dumpling’s.—(Rutlandshire Recipe.)—Take one pound of flour, one ounce of German yeast, quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Mix the yeast into the boiling milk and water, pour it into the flour and knead it into dough. Add a little salt. Put the dough into a deep basin. (Here the Rutland custom is to mark the dough with a cross.) Cover the basin with a cloth, and leave it in a hot place near the fire for one hour to let the dough rise. Then make the dough into balls the size of a duck’s egg, and boil them for one hour. These Yeast Dumplings are very light. They can be eaten with butter and sugar, or butter and salt, or with jam, or with golden syrup. GLAZE AND ASPIC JELLY. Glaze can be bought ready made, in which case it only requires to be melted for use. But it is infinitely better to make228 GLAZE AND ASPIC JELLY Glaze at home; the flavour is always more delicate, and the materials need not be expensive. A small quantity of Glaze should be frequently made, as although Glaze keeps well it is better when fresh. For a superior Glaze, take the bone of a knuckle of veal, and a shin bone of beef with a little meat on it, a ham bone, some rind of bacon, and any bones you can get of cooked poultry. Cover all with water, and simmer for twenty- four hours. Reduce, so that four pints of water are reduced to one pint. Keep skimming at intervals, as the stock must be kept clean and clear. Strain the Glaze through a hair sieve into a small jar or jam-pot. When the Glaze is wanted, melt it by setting the jar in hot water in a saucepan. Wyvern's Glaze is excellent, and more simple than the above recipe. He says, “ Make a strong broth of all the odds and ends “ that you may have at hand, trimmings of meat, giblets and “bones of poultry, skeleton remains of fowls or game, bacon “rind, a few scraps of lean ham or bacon, and so on. When “ready, strain the liquid, free it from grease, and clarify with “ half a pound of raw beef. Then put it into a stewpan over “ a fast fire, and reduce it until it begins to thicken sufficiently “ to coat the spoon with which you are stirring it. Constant “stirring is downright essential to prevent the Glaze sticking “ to the bottom of the saucepan and burning. As soon as satisfied “with its consistency pour it into a small jar. When cold the “ Glaze will solidify like glue.” To apply Glaze, set the jar in the bain-marie, and let the Glaze melt. Use a soft brush, called by artists a softening brush, which can be bought from any artists’ colourman. Keep this brush for Glazing only, and wash it carefully after it has been used. Paint the surface of the ham, or tongue, or pressed beef, evenly over with the Glaze, but do not lay it on heavily. If the Glaze is too pale when it is being made a little browning may be added before the broth is reduced. But the Glaze should look bright and clear, and be pale brown in colour. As Wyvem justly observes, “ The thick layer of dull treacly material—some- “ times even of a reddish colour—that is frequently seen in shop “ windows is repellent rather than ornamental, and certainly “ not at all what Glaze ought to be.” On no account add patterns in white or pink on the top of Glaze; it is a vulgarGLAZE AND ASPIC JELLY 229 custom, and causes waste of time and trouble. The only suitable decoration for a ham or a tongue is a simple white paper frill to conceal the knuckle end or the tongue root. Pressed Beef, if properly coated with transparent glaze, needs no decoration at all. Fish Glaze is most useful for fish sauces. It is made by boil- ing fish broth made from the cuttings of white fish until it is reduced to the consistency of an ordinary thick sauce. When Fish Glaze is cold it becomes solid like Meat Glaze. Real Aspic Jelly.—Do not use any gelatine. Get one ox- foot, or, as it is generally called, cow-heel, or four sheep’s feet. Clean and cut up the foot or feet. Put them into a stewpan with a bacon bone if you have it; if not, with a couple of slices of ham or bacon and any scraps you can get of absolutely raw meat, such as cutlet trimmings or fowl giblets. The scraps must be raw. Add a few mixed vegetables as for soup. When all is in the stewpan add a quarter or half a pint of cold water. Cover the pan, set it on a moderate fire, and shake it occasion- ally. When the pieces of meat begin to take colour add a very little more water, and in about half an hour after that pour in enough warm water to cover the contents of the pan com- pletely. Let it simmer very gently for three hours. When done, strain the liquid into a bowl, let it get cool, skim carefully, and stir in a teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. To clarify the stock, put into the cool broth half a pound of finely-minced raw beef quite free from fat. Put the stock on the fire again, and stir well till it boils. Take the pan off the fire, let the broth settle, and pour it gently into a basin, taking great care not to disturb the sediment. Strain it finally through a clean cloth. You will have a clear yellow liquid, which will set of its own accord if put on ice. If more colour is required use a teaspoonful of caramel; never use burnt onion for colouring. Add the teaspoonful of caramel colouring to the Aspic before you set it to simmer. If caramel cannot be conveniently made, the Parisian essence, or sue colorant, is an excellent browning, quite tasteless and quite wholesome. Sir Henry Thompson’s recipe for Aspic Jelly is the result, as all his recipes are, of personal trials and consideration given under his own eye. I prefer, however, to use good glazeGLAZE AND ASPIC JELLY 230 instead of the Liebig’s Extract recommended by him, for Liebig and all such preparations of meat are never free from a peculiar burnt flavour, very unpleasant to some palates. Sir Henry Thompson considers that to make Aspic Jelly there is no need, as in old days, to prepare an expensive clear stock with fresh meat and calf’s feet. He proceeds: “ Slice a large carrot or “turnip, and a small head of celery, add two cloves, pepper and “salt, a bay leaf and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Put all into “ a saucepan with three pints of water, and allow it to simmer for “two hours until reduced to two pints. Pour off through a “strainer and let it stand until cold. When required, add “two ounces of gelatine in hot summer weather [one ounce and “a half suffices when it is cool] to a pint of the cold liquor, and “let it stand two hours. Then heat the remaining pint to “boiling point, and add to the preceding, with a thin paring of “lemon peel, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, the same of mild “vinegar, and one or two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. At “ this point pour in two or three whites of eggs lightly beaten, “and stir well to fine the liquor. Bring the whole just up to the “boiling point, then at once remove from the fire and keep on the “hot-plate close by, but not boiling, for three minutes only. “Take it off, and set it aside for three minutes longer. Then “strain through flannel. It is now quite hot and clear. Stir in “at once a large teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract, and “set aside to cool until wanted.”—[Food and Feeding, Sixth Edition, p. 114.] Some people like less vinegar than is advised in this recipe. If the liquid is at all cloudy when it has cooled, warm it up and strain it a second time. Aspic Jelly is most useful in borders, or when chopped or cut into neat diamonds or rounds it forms an admirable garnish. Many recipes for Aspic Jelly advise the pro- portion of two and a half ounces of gelatine to a quart of liquid, whatever the weather may be, but Sir Henry Thompson's calculation may be safely followed. Aspic Jelly must be stiff, but it should not be too stiff. When a mould of Aspic Jelly, decorated with pieces of cooked fish, or game, or hard-boiled eggs, is wanted pour into the mould lukewarm jelly to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Then arrange neatly whatever is to be inserted, and let the jelly set over ice. When it is231 REAL ASPIC JELLY set, either fill the mould with jelly, or make alternate layers of jelly and fish or whatever is to be used. Finish with jelly, cover the top with ice, and let the mould stand on ice till the shape of Aspic Jelly is to be turned out. Borders can be filled in the same way. Some of the Aspic very finely minced makes a pretty bright garnish. To do this spread a clean piece of paper on the pastry board, and mince the Aspic Jelly into minute scraps as recommended for suet (page 226). To coat cutlets or pieces of chicken with Aspic, pour the jelly on a large flat dish, and when it has set lay the cutlets or joints of chicken upon the surface. Then pour liquid lukewarm Aspic gently all over them, leave them to get quite cold, and cut them very neatly out. Diamonds or other shapes can be stamped out with cutters in the same way. As Aspic Jelly is often wanted, it is wise to keep a flannel on purpose for straining it. It is sure to leave a flavour in the most carefully washed jelly-bag, and it is scarcely worth while to have a jelly-bag on purpose for Aspic.232 CHAPTER VII. PIES AND MEAT PUDDINGS. Sufficient attention is not generally given to the seasoning and moistening of home-made Pies. It is not enough to cram a pie-dish with whatever meat may be at hand, to cover it with coarsely-made crust, and then to bake it. Pies, to be good, need care and judgment. One most important ingredient in pies, the jelly gravy, is too often neglected. Without this addition Pies might just as well be made of pieces of leather. General Directions for Pies baked in a Pie-dish.— 1. Rub the dish with a shallot. 2. Make from scraps of meat, or giblets, a pint of gravy, strengthening it with half an ounce of glaze, and flavouring it with a slice of ham, or bacon, or bacon rind, an onion, a dessertspoonful of herbs, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. A tablespoonful of Marsala may be added, when the gravy has simmered for an hour. Then strain into a bowl, and take off all fat. 3. Butter the pie-dish, and sprinkle finely-chopped parsley over the bottom. Do not pack the pie too tightly, and arrange between the pieces of meat or bird minced cooked mushrooms, and grated or thinly-sliced ham or tongue, and slices of bacon. Season well with herb-pepper. Garnish the surface with halves or quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and strew finely-minced parsley over all. 4. Pour in half a pint of the jelly gravy through a funnel very gently. The gravy should not fill the pie, but you should be just able to see it between the pieces of meat an inch from the top.233 GENERAL DIRECTIONS 5. Wet tlie rim of tlie pie-dish, and place over it a band of paste an inch and a quarter wide and a quarter of an inch thick. This will prevent any shrinking in baking. 6. Dip a brush in water, and wet the pastry band all round. Put on the pastry cover of the Pie, pressing it firmly to the band. Then pass a knife round the outer edge of the cover to trim it neatly, making the edges slope well outwards. 7. Always leave a hole an inch square at the top of the crust. This allows the gas generated in the cooking to escape, and forms the opening through which the remainder of the gravy is to be poured. The hole can be finally closed if liked by a fletiron of ornamental pastry baked separately. This may be made by cutting a few leaves with their stalks out of pastry a quarter of an inch thick. Any fanciful device should be avoided. 8. Bake the Pie slowly; an hour and a half is a generally suitable time. It is a good plan to cover the crust witb a buttered paper as soon as it has nicely browned, so as to pre- vent it from becoming too dark. Towards the end of the baking brash over the crust with an egg, beaten together with two forks, to glaze it. This can quickly be brushed on with a clean feather. 9. Half an hour before the Pie is baked pour in the other half-pint of gravy, doing it slowly and gently through a funnel. If the Pie is to be cold, let it cool for half an hour after baking, and then pour in the gravy. (Full instructions for Pie-crust are given in Chapter XVII.) If the above directions are carefully followed Pies of all sorts can be turned out thoroughly good. Beef-Steak Pie.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pound and a quarter or a pound and a half of really tender beef-steak, and cut it into rather thin slices. Divide these again into slices four inches long and two and a half inches wide. Lay them on a board, and season the upper part of each slice well with herb pepper. Now lay on each slice, as may be preferred, a thin small slice of fat, or a cooked sauce oystei’, or half a cooked mushroom, or a thin slice of cold bacon. Roll the slice of beef- steak round whatever is selected for the lining, and pack the234 PIES AND MEAT PUDDINGS pie-dish with the little rolls. A very good pie is made of rolls alternately filled with oystexs and mushrooms. Make the gravy of the . trimmings and any remaining part of the beef-steak, and a tablespoonful of mushi-oom ketchup must not be omitted. A Veal Pie made in the same way is much better than the ordinai’y Yeal and Ham Pie. Line each slice of Yeal with a stiip of cold boiled bacon, and a slice of stuffing (see page 202). The gravy must be strong and well flavoured. Add quai'ters of hard-boiled eggs, and shake over all a teaspoonful of mixed minced thyme and marjoram, as well as hei'b pepper. Chicken Pie.—(Family Recipe.)—Clean and singe three chickens (for a large pie), cut them in joints, wash them clean in tepid water, wipe them and lay them on a cloth to dry. Lay thin slices of bacon, ham, or tongue at the bottom of the pie, then arrange a layer of pieces of chicken, then more ham or tongue, then more chicken, seasoning each layer of chicken well with herb pepper. Finish with a layer of bacon, and above that arrange four hard-boiled eggs cut in rings. Make the gravy from the giblets, the skin of the tongue, and any scraps. It is a good plan to take the flesh off the legs of the chickens and to make it into forcemeat balls, well seasoned with herb pepper, and to dot these, the size of a lai'ge marble, about the pie, using the bones, broken up, for the gravy. Mushrooms, cooked and cut in halves, or button mushrooms stewed in milk, should be added to evei’y layer of chicken. Bake for two hours. Pigeon Pie.—Choose either Bordeaux Pigeons or fattened English Pigeons. Take off their legs, but truss them for roasting. Allow three Pigeons for a moderately sized pie. Take a pound and a half of tender lean beef, and make it into mils as befoi’e described, putting a cooked sauce oyster into each roll. Chop up the livers of the Pigeons, and put one into each bird, with a dessertspoonful of chopped bacon, and a teaspoonful of minced cooked mushroom, all well seasoned with hei’b pepper. Place a layer of the x’olls at the bottom of the pie, then the three pigeons, breasts downwards, and then another layer of rolls of beef, lined with oysters. Make the gr-avy of the tiimmings of the pigeons. It will need strengthening byPIGEON PIE 235 .the addition of a sheep’s foot, and any scraps of meat. If it is to be vei'y good, add a pound of gravy beef, and half a pound of leanisb cooked bacon. Rabbit Pie.—Take a fine rabbit, a pound of gravy beef, and half a pound of bacon. Skin and wash the rabbit, cut it up as for a stew, and put the pieces to soak in cold water. When quite clean, drain them, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, and set them aside. Put the bead, the neck, and lower joints of the legs (well broken up), and all scraps of the rabbit, with the beef and the usual flavourings into a large saucepan to make the gravy. When this is made and skimmed, make the turkey stuffing as on page 202, only using half the quantities given, and adding the liver and kidneys of the rabbit, with, if possible, four ounces of cold cooked veal or chicken, all very finely pounded. Pass this through the sieve, and spread a thin layer of the forcemeat thus made at the bottom of the pie-dish. Immediately above it put a layer of bacon slices, then the coarser joints of the rabbit, dusting them with herb pepper, and filling the spaces with the forcemeat. Put a second layer of bacon over the rabbit, and rabbit again above that. Repeat the forcemeat filling, and when the pie-dish is full lay a few slices of bacon on the top, and moisten with half a pint of the bi’oth. Add hard-boiled eggs, cover the pie, and bake one hour and a quarter. \_Wyvern.~\ This will be found quite unlike the insipid Rabbit Pie generally served. Eg’g’ and Bacon Pie.—(jFamily Recipe.)—Line a pie-dish with puff paste. Make a plain custard with egg and milk beaten up with pepper and salt. Put slices of cold boiled streaky bacon at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of custard, then bacon, and so on till the dish is full. Pepper each layer of custard well. Bake with a paste over the pie, and sexwe cold. French Pie.—Cut up two pounds of lean veal, the same of bacon, and of lean pork, in very thin slices. Place them in layers in a fire-proof pie-dish. Moisten with stock and chop up a little herb and very little onion, and put it between the slices of meat. Cover with a sham crust of flour and water. Take all the cuttings, parings, bones, etc., cook these in water or weak stock, and reduce to a large teacupful.236 PIES AND MEAT PUDDINGS When the pie has baked some time slowly, take it out, take off the crust, and pour in the teacupful of stock. When it has cooled it improves the appearance of the dish to put some well- made aspic jelly on the top. Boned Pigeons make a good French Pie. [Mrs. G. W. Earle."] Game Pie.—This kind of Pie is generally called a Raised Pie. It can be baked in the old-fashioned way in a deep dish which fits into an ornamental brown china case, or it can be put into an oval metal mould with a hinge, or it can be baked and served in a fire-proof dish made specially for Game Pies. If the first plan is followed only a sham crust of flour and water is made; this is removed when the Pie is baked, and when the Pie is cold chopped aspic jelly is substituted for it. The metal ring must be well buttered inside, then neatly lined with the crust, the hinge closed, and the mould set upon a baking sheet whilst the pie is baked. To line the mould, cut an oval piece of paste a little larger than the bottom of it, so that the edges may turn up and be more readily fixed to the wall, or side paste. Then cut a strip three and a half inches wide and sufficiently long to go round the inside of the wall of the mould, and fix the lower edge of this to the oval piece at the bottom with white of egg, pinching them closely together. When the pie is packed cut another oval of paste for the top, cement it to the top of the wall Avith Avhite of egg and pinch it tightly. A hole one inch square must of course be made at the top. Recipes for crusts suitable for Raised Pies are ghren in Chapter XVII, but none is better than the American recipe given here with the Venison Pasty. If the pie is baked in the fire-proof dish no crust or lining is required, but the lid must be securely fastened down during the baking Avith a band of flour and water paste. In all Raised Pies good forcemeat and strong jelly gravy are essentials. The game is generally boned, and the bones greatly assist the gravy. A couple of sheep’s feet and an ounce of glaze should be used for the gravy; if the sheep’s feet cannot be had, a quarter of an ounce of gelatine will be needed to make the jelly firm. A good Game Pie is made of a pheasant, two partridges, and the back and hind-quarters of a hare that has been cut in twoGAME PIE 237 behind the shoulders. Bone the game if possible ; if not, cut off the meat in as large and neat pieces as you can. Break up the bones in a mortar, mashing them with the pestle, and then put them into a two-quart stewpan with three ounces of lean ham or bacon, two sheep’s feet cut up and cleaned, an ounce of glaze, a bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, a minced shallot, a three- ounce onion, a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper. Boil, and then simmer. When the broth is strong strain it, set it to cool, and skim. When it is clear, flavour it with a sherry glass of Marsala (wine is considered essential in Raised Pies), a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and, if liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar. Colour if required. Reduce the broth by a quarter, so as to have it as strong and savoury as possible, strain, and set it aside. Make the forcemeat of the livers of the birds and the hare, and a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, pound all well, mix with two ounces of panada (see page 203), moisten with one egg, and when the forcemeat is pounded to a paste pass it through the hair sieve. Clean and peel a quarter of a pound of mushrooms, toss them for a few minutes in butter over a low fire. If large, cut them into convenient pieces. Now pack the Pie as usual, coat the bottom and sides thinly with the forcemeat, cut up the game, seasoning with salt and herb pepper, roll each piece of hare in bacon and put a layer of them on the forcemeat. Pack the pie l’ather closely, dusting frequently with herb pepper, and dotting in little slices of ham and bacon, and the mushrooms, as you pack. Cover the top with slices of bacon. Add half the jelly gravy, put on the cover, and bake. The oven must be at a moderate heat, between fast and slow, and the baking must be slowly done, The Pie will take about three hours to bake. Let it cool, add the rest of the gravy, and set the Pie in a cold larder. If it is liked without the cover remove the upper layer of bacon also, and fill up the space with broken aspic jelly. Venison Pasty.—This is an excellent American recipe. Almost any part of the deer can be used, but the neck and shoulder answer best. Cut the raw venison neatly from the bones. Put the bones, skin, fat, and trimmings into a saucepan with a minced shallot, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt, coverPIES AND MEAT PUDDINGS 238 with cold water and let it simmer. Cut the meat into squares an inch long, and simmer them in another saucepan till three- quarters done. Line a deep dish with good putt-paste, put in the squares of venison, season well, add half a pint of the liquor the venison was stewed in, and a little butter if liked. Put on the lid, leaving a hole in the middle as big as your thumb. Bake steadily, covering the top with a sheet of clean paper as soon as it is firm, to prevent it from browning too fast. Now make the gravy. When all the substance has been extracted from the bones and trimmings strain the liquor back into the saucepan, let it boil, skim it carefully, add a glass of port wine if liked, or a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and the juice of a lemon. Pour this upon a roux of butter and flour, boil up once, and add as much gravy through the opening as the pie will hold. If you have not a funnel, make a horn of stiff writing- paper buttered. Pour the gravy in very gently but quickly; if you have more than the pie will hold send up the rest in a sauce-boat. Brush the crust over with beaten egg, and put the pie back in the oven until it is a golden brown. The pie should only be drawn to the door of the oven for these operations, and everything should be in readiness before it is taken out, that the crust may be light and flaky. To make the crust for the lid, take a pound and a half of flour sifted and dined, twelve ounces of butter, three eggs, a little salt, and a jug of iced water. Work half the butter into the flour, add the salt, and work up with the iced water, lastly adding the eggs beaten very lightly. Work out rapidly, handling as little as possible. Roll out three times very thin, adding the rest of the butter. Then roll an oval lid nearly an inch thick, reserving a second sheet for thefleuron. Having covered in the pie, cut from this extra sheet with a cake-cutter, leaves, flowers, stars, or what you please. Bake the fleuron on a tin sheet by itself, and brush it over with egg when you glaze the pie. After the pie is baked fix the fleuron with white of egg into the hole at the top. Bake the pie from two to three hours, guiding your- self by the size of the pie. In America this Yenison Pasty is served cold. Leicestershire Pork Pie.—Take a neck or loin of pork, and cut the meat from the bones in one piece. Divide this into239 LEICESTERSHIRE PORK PIE slices half an inch thick, and then cut each slice into squares half an inch across, keeping the fat and the lean separate. Season only with coarsely-ground black pepper and salt, in the proportion of two-thirds of salt to one of pepper. Do not add sage, or any other seasoning whatever. Pack the pie as tightly as you can, using alternate layers of fat and lean. If this pie is not packed tightly the outside pieces will be dry and leathery. Cover as usual, leaving a hole, but in these pies no gravy is put in before baking. Bake in a slow oven. When the pie is baked, and whilst it is still warm, pour in through the hole a little lukewarm jelly, made very strong by boiling two pig’s feet and all the scraps for at least three hours, putting them on in cold water, and seasoning, when the broth is strained, with pepper and salt only. To be eaten cold. A neck of Mutton treated in this way makes an excellent Pie. In this case add to the seasoning a tablespoonful of minced parsley, but nothing else upon any account. Make the gravy of the bones and two sheep’s feet. A mutton pie is best eaten hot. Crust for Leicestershire Pork Pie.—Put half a pint of water into a saucepan and heat it over the fire. When quite hot stir into it eleven ounces of clarified suet, two ounces of fresh butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir till the fat has melted, cool this to lukewarm, and pour the contents of the saucepan by degrees into a bowl containing a pound and a half of well-dried flour. Work the mixture to a stiff paste, adding a little water if necessary, and turn it out upon a cold pastry slab. Roll it out three-eighths of an inch thick as evenly and as level as possible, and let it get quite cold. [Wyvern.] For the Mutton Pie use four ounces of butter (no suet) to a pound of flour. MEAT PUDDINGS. These are homely enough, but very good if properly made and very slowly boiled or steamed. For the paste, mince very finely six ounces of clarified suet, and dredge a little flour over it as you mince. Mix with it one pound of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient water to240 MEAT PUDDINGS make a smooth pliant paste. Roll it out, and it is ready. Rub a basin well with butter, line it with the paste rolled one-third of an inch thick, put in the meat with a coffeecupful of cold jelly gravy in a firm state, close over the top securely, tie the basin up in a pudding-cloth, and steam the pudding very slowly for from three to four hours. [Wyvern.] Beef-steak Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—For the paste use nearly equal parts of suet and of flour, letting the flour be a little in excess. (This is too rich, and Wyvern’s paste is preferable to it.) Take two and a half pounds of fillet of beef, cut it into thin slices as you would cut beetroot, but let them be two inches long. Roll them up one by one, putting into the middle of each a little bit of fat cut thin, pepper, and minced onion. Add seasoning herbs a discretion, and a little salt. Fill up the inside of the basin with these little bundles of meat, and boil the pudding slowly for four hours. It is an improvement to put pieces of strong jellified gravy among the rolls of beef- steak. An oyster rolled in bacon can be put inside each little bundle, or kidneys can be sliced, rolled in bacon, and the beef rolled over all. Mushrooms greatly improve Beef-steak Puddings. A Meat Pudding made from a neck of mutton is much liked, and oysters (not mushrooms) improve it. Partridg-e Pudding-.—Bone a brace of partridges and lay them out flat. Put on each bird a thin slice or two of cooked bacon, then a layer of chopped cooked mushroom, with the bird’s liver chopped, and a little minced shallot. Dust well with herb pepper. Roll up the birds, and put them in the basin, adding pieces of jellified gravy made from their bones and giblets. SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES. Many luncheon dishes will be found in this volume, but a few special recipes will be given in this chapter, for several of which I am indebted to Wyvern. Stewed Beef-steak with Sorrel Pur£e.—Make a pint of good broth with the scraps and trimmings of the beef, ordering if need be a little more than the steak itself. Strain the broth241 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES and keep it hot. Take a high-sided saute-pan with a cover, and put into it an ounce and half of butter. Set it over a low fire, and when the butter has melted put in three ounces of minced onion, two each of minced carrot and turnip, one ounce of minced celery, and a sprig of parsley. Lay the steak on the vegetables, fry briskly for five minutes, and then moisten with just enough hot broth to cover it. Allow only enough fire below the pan to cause it to simmer very gently and slowly, and keep the cover closely on the pan. Add broth from time to time to make up for the loss by evaporation. Try with a trussing needle when the steak is really tender. When it is quite done lift the pan off the fire, take out the steak, put it on a hot dish covered up, strain and skim the broth, thicken it a little, and colour with a few drops of Parisian essence. Have the sorrel puree ready in the bain-marie, arrange it on a hot dish, lay the steak upon it, brush over the top with diluted glaze, and pour the sauce round it outside. It is a good plan to save the fat and grill it, laying the pieces on the top of the steak. For the sorrel puree, put two pounds of carefully picked sorrel into plenty of boiling water with a little salt and a pinch of pepper. Blanch it for twelve minutes, drain it thoroughly, pressing out all moisture, and chop the leaves small on a board. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan over a low fire, add an ounce of flour, stir for three minutes till it is smooth, then put in the sorrel, a saltspoonful of sugar, and a gill of good broth. Stir vigorously to prevent the leaves catching at the bottom of the pan. When the sorrel, gravy, and butter are thoroughly amalgamated and stiffly reduced, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a tablespoonful of milk ; work this briskly over the fire for five minutes, and it will be ready. Entre-cote a la jardiniere.—The entre-c6te, or between- the-bone steak, cut from a piece of the ribs of beef, should be chosen from an inch to an inch and half thick. Take off all gristle, trim the steak neatly, and sprinkle both sides with pepper and salt. Brush melted butter over it, lay it on a well-buttered gridiron, and broil it over a clear but not too fierce fire for twelve minutes. Dish it on a hot dish with a garnish of dif- ferent vegetables, each in a little heap, round it. Choose R242 SPECI/VL LUNCHEON DISHES Brussels sprouts, carrots, turnips, flageolets, and Jerusalem artichokes. Cut the root vegetables with a cutter into balls. Cook the vegetables separately. Lay a dessertspoonful of maitre d’ hotel butter on the steak, and hand Sauce Robert (see page 131). Potato balls, or Potatoes duchesses, should be served with the steak. Or the entre-c6te, which is often called a Porter-house steak, may be grilled over a clear fire for twenty-five minutes, cutlet-tongs being used to turn it. Serve it d la Tyrolienne by brushing the steak over with glaze, and then masking it with this mince. Mince three ounces of onion, and fry this very gently in an ounce of butter. Let it soften, but not turn colour, then add an ounce of flour. Mis well, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of tomato puree or tomato conserve. Serve Pommes de terre d VAmericaine, made by boil- ing the potatoes till nearly done, then slice them in thick slices, and simmer them in half a pint of white sauce made with milk previously flavoured as for Bread Sauce, with onion, herb pepper, and salt. Just before serving stir into the potatoes, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and a pat of butter the size of a shilling. Add a few drops of lemon juice. Leg1 Of Mutton a la Bretonne.—Cover the joint thoroughly with water, bring it gradually to the boil, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Then lift it out, and without a moment’s delay put it on the spit. Roast it for an hour and a quarter, or, if liked very well done, for an hour and a half. Whilst the mutton is roasting peel an eight-ounce Portugal onion, cut it into eight equal pieces, blanch them, cool and drain them, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of castor sugar. Fry until turning colour over a low fire, add a gill of the water the mutton was boiled in, and one ounce of glaze. Simmer till the onion is quite cooked, and pass it through a hair sieve. Keep it warm in the bain-marie. Fill a pint measure with white haricot beans, put them into a stewpan with the water the mutton was cooked in, reduced by boiling to a quart, add a teaspoonful of salt, bring it to the boil, and then simmer gently till the beaus are tender. Drain them, put them back in the stewpan, and mix the onion puree into the beans. Heat both thoroughly,243 LEG OF MUTTON A LA BRETONNE lay the vegetables in a hot dish, place the mutton npon them, and ponr the gravy round it. Fillets of Beef au Raifcrt.—Mince a tablespoonful of horseradish and the same of green chilis, and mix them with a teaspoonful of mustard flour into two ounces of butter. Season the beef with a little salt or spiced salt, and with a knife spread the mixture on both sides of each fillet. Grill the fillets on a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning each four times. Serve on a very hot dish, adding the juice of half a lemon mixed with a dessertspoonful of walnut ketchup. Fillets of Beef aux Anehois.—Cut the beef into oval fillets three and a half inches long, two and a half wide, and three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut for each a slice of fat the size of and twice the thickness of a half-crown. Let the fillets marinade all night. Take a small saute-pan, melt half an ounce of butter in it over a brisk fire, and fry the fillets one by one, four minutes on each side, being careful that the butter does not burn. Fry the fat by itself last. Drain the fillets and arrange them on a hot dish with a slice of fat between each. Lay two fillets of anchovy on each fillet. For the sauce drain and wipe two anchovies, pound and pass them through a sieve, add the anchovy pulp to half a pint of good veloute sauce, heat it up, and just as you serve it stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg. Serve very hot in a boat. Ragout Of Mutton.—Trim the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets, cutting the bones rather short. Or use a shoulder of mutton, sawing it across through the bone, and cutting the meat into two-inch pieces. With the trimmings or the scrag-end of the neck make a good mutton broth, adding plenty of onion, an ounce of celery, and any other broth vegetables which can be had. Put the mutton into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Fry the meat over a moderately fast fire for a quarter of an hour so as to “ seize ” the juices. Do not let the butter burn, and fry the cutlets or pieces of mutton a few at a time, for they must not touch each other in the pan. Dred»e an ounce of flour over the meat, and brown for four minutes. Add a quart of the mutton broth, warm all together, stir till it boils, then drain the contents of the stewpan through a sieve244 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES into a basin. Rinse the stewpan, put back the meat, take the fat oft' the broth, and pour the broth over the meat, adding five ounces of sliced onion and a bouquet garni. Simmer very gently now for one hour, adding a gill or so of broth to make good the loss by evaporation. Whilst the mutton is simmering cut up a pound of young turnips as you would cut apples for a tart, and fry them in an ounce of butter till lightly browned. Add the turnips to the mutton during the last quarter of an hour’s cooking. When done, arrange the meat on a hot dish, put the pieces of turnip i-ound it, strain and skim the gravy, and pour it over all. A French cook would add a drop of garlic, or would stir the ragout with a knife previously thrust into a clove of garlic. Mutton Pie with Mushrooms.—Choose a fire-proof pie- dish, rub it with a shallot, butter it, and cover the bottom with slices of raw potato. On this arrange the cutlets from a neck of mutton, cut short and thick, and put a large peeled mush- room between each. Season well with herb pepper and a little salt. Put thin slices of bacon over the mutton, and add a gill of gravy. Cover the whole with a layer of butter the thickness of a shilling, put on the crust, and bake the pie for three hours. When done lift off the crust, skim off any fat with a spoon, pour in another gill of gravy in which a gill of Marsala has been warmed, replace the crust, and serve. Monsieur Buglere’s Haricot.—Choose a neck of mutton, cut it up into cutlets, shorten the bones close to the top of the meat. Trim the cutlets very neatly, and make a good broth •with the bones and trimmings. Mince small four ounces of onion, three of carrot, and three of turnip ; fry this in an ounce and a half of butter over a low fire, adding salt and a dust of sugar. Use a fricandeau-pan or a straight-sided saute-pan. When the minced vegetables are partly fried put in the pieces of mutton and continue the frying until the meat is slightly browned. Then add broth to half the height of the meat, and put in a bouquet garni. Let the broth fall gradually to a glaze, keeping the pan uncovered, and then add broth till it is level with the surface of the meat. Proceed as before to gradually reduce the broth, and then again moisten the meat with broth. When the meat seems half cooked drain off the broth, skim off245 MONSIEUR DUGLERE’S HARICOT the fat, rinse out the pan, and put the meat and broth back into it, adding a gill of sauteme. Simmer very slowly over a low fire till the meat is nearly cooked. Then add a variety of fresh young vegetables neatly cut up, and let them gently simmer with the meat till they are tender. In winter use a tin of macedoine of presei’ved vegetables, and add to this neatly- turned balls of potato. Mutton Cutlets a la Vinaigrette.—Mince small equal quantities of shallot and parsley, and put them into a small basin filled with melted butter. Dip each cutlet into this, and when thoroughly coated cover each with breadcrumbs. Fry the cutlets a golden brown. Have ready two small cucumbers cut into ovals an inch long, and boiled till tender in half vinegar and half water. Make a broth with the trimmings of the cutlets, flavour it with shallot and herbs, turn it into a sauce, put the cucumbers into it, add a few drops of any suitable vinegar, make it very hot, and dish the cutlets round the cucumber. Mutton Cutlets a la Nelson.—Partly roast the best end of a neck of mutton, and let it get cold. Divide it into six neat cutlets, trimming them carefully. Make half a pint of sauce soubise tomatee. For this, melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and add four ounces of minced onion, fry over a low fire but without colouring. Then mix in an ounce of flour, stir for three minutes, and moisten with two gills of broth made from the scrag of the neck of mutton. Bring it to the boil, simmer till the onions are soft, and then pass all through the hair sieve, finishing with a gill of tomato puree, a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, and a tablespoonful of cream. Lay the cutlets on a buttered baking-dish, brush over their upper sides with melted glaze, then mask them neatly on that side with the sauce, and dust over them a coating of grated Parmesan cheese. Push the dish into the oven, baste the cutlets, and keep them in the oven till the masking is nicely coloured. For the sauce reduce the soubise tomatee over a brisk fire, stirring continually until it is thick enough to coat the spoon well. Cool, mask the cutlets, dilute what is left of the sauce with a gill of broth, and finish with either a tablespoonful of cream or the yolk of an egg, stii’red in off the fire. Serve the sauce in a boat. To dish the cutlets use246 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES either a border mould or a hollow croustade, with the cutlets arranged masked side outwards, and the hollow filled with some nicely cooked vegetable. For instance, Spinach a la Franr/iise, or puree of Tomatoes, or Green Peas an beurre, or Flageolets a la Flamande. For the Spinach pick over one pound of leaves, and weigh them before they are boiled. Wash them free from dirt and grit, and put them into an earthenware casserole with plenty of boiling salted water. On no account use a tinned pan. Blanch the Spinach for five minutes, drain, “ refresh ” it under a tap of cold water, press out all moisture in a clean cloth, and mince the Spinach on a board as finely as possible. Melt Butter in the casserole in the proportion of one ounce to a pound of the Spinach, weighed before boiling. When the butter is quite hot put the Spinach into it over a low fire and let it absorb the butter, stirring it with a wooden spoon without ceasing. When the Spinach is quite dry finish with a tablespoonful of good bechamel sauce or cream to every pound, and at the last moment stir in half an ounce of butter. For a puree of Tomatoes fry an ounce of minced onion in a quart stewpan over a low fire in half an ounce of butter till the onion begins to turn yellow. Cut up half a pound of tomatoes into quarters, put them also into the stewpan, and stew gently till they are done. Turn out the puree on a hair sieve, and work the tomatoes through it. Put the pulp into a saucepan upon the usual roux of half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. Moisten it with a gill of broth till the puree is creamy, and season with a little salt and black pepper. For Green Peas au beurre put a quaint of water on the fire in an earthenware casserole. Never use a tinned pan for green vegetables. Stir into the water a saltspoonful of salt, the same quantity of sugar, and half an ounce of green mint. When the water boils pour in a pint measure of freshly-shelled green peas, boil with no lid on the pan, drain and pick out the hunch of mint. Then dust the Peas over with the finest dusting of salt and castor sugar blended together in equal parts, stir in at the last moment just enough of the best butter to lubricate the Peas without leaving a greasy sediment, and grind a few grains of black pepper over them from the pepper-mill. For Flageolets « la Flamande cook247 MUTTON CUTLETS A LA NELSON half a pound of green flageolets in boiling salted water, with half an onnce of butter. When they are tender drain them, and with half a pint of their cuisson make a white sauce, using as a roux half an ounce of butter and the same quantity of flour. When the sauce is ready take it off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg and a dessertspoonful of minced parsley. Warm up the flageolets in the sauce and serve at once. Mutton Cutlets a la Catalane.—Cook the cutlets exactly like the cutlet a la Nelson, but mask them with a thick sauce made of half a pint of thickly reduced white sauce into which a tablespoonful of grated ham, of grated Parmesan, and of minced mushroom have been mixed. Mutton op Lamb Cutlets a la Dubois.—Cut the cutlets from the best end of the neck, trim them, and make three- quarters of a pint of broth from the trimmings, with half an ounce of glaze, vegetables, and seasoning. Strain, and let it get cold. Remove all fat, thicken it gradually with a roux of three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, adding the peelings and trimmings of a quarter of a pound of mushrooms. Bring to the boil, simmer for fifteen minutes, and then strain the sauce from the mushrooms, passing it through a hair sieve. Put it back in the stewpan over a brisk fire and reduce the sauce by fast boiling and continual stirring till it coats the spoon like butter. Now stir in three tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms which have been separately lightly fried in butter, and empty the sauce into a bowl to cool. For the cutlets: Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan over a good fire, and lay the cutlets in it. Cook them on one side only, then take them out and set them, the cooked side uppermost, on a dish under a weight. When the cutlets are cold coat the cooked sides with the thick sauce, using the palette knife, and making the sauce into a dome shape. Now put the cutlets back in the saute-pan, which should have been left with the butter in it, and put it in the oven. Baste the cutlets with broth and complete the cooking, thus glazing the coating of sauce. It will require from eight to ten minutes. Have ready a hollow croustade of puff pastry, and dish the cutlets round it, the coated sides outwards. Fill the croustade with mushroom puree, or any nice vegetable puree. Or fill it with a vegetable248 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES Ragout made like the Gendarme garnish in the following recipe. Noisettss of Mutton a la Gendapmo.—Cut the noisettes from the meaty part of a loin of mutton. They should be three-quarters of an inch thick and two and a half inches across. Grill them as fillets of beef are grilled. For the garnish: Trim two dozen pieces each of young potatoes, carrots, and turnips two inches long and as thick as a drawing pencil, pointing the ends of each piece. Blanch them for five minutes in boiling water, then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, putting the carrots in first, then the potatoes, and lastly the turnips. Cook the vegetables over a low fire, seasoning writh salt, pepper, and a dust of sugar. When tender, drain them and serve in the centre of the dish of noisettes, with a tablespoonful of the melted glaze poured over them. Leg1 of Lamb a la Bepcy.—Shoi'ten the shank bone by sawing it off close to the end of the meat. Choose a good sized stewpan, large enough to hold the leg easily. Line it with pieces of fat bacon or pieces of good beef dripping, laying over it three ounces each of onion, carrot, and turnip, an ounce of celery, and a sprig of parsley, all cut small, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Lay the leg of lamb upon this bed, set the pan upon a moderate fire, and when the fat is melted turn the leg about for a few minutes to “ seize ” the meat and slightly colour it. Now moisten with warm broth just level with the top of the meat, bring to the boil, skimming off the scum, then close the pan, put it into a moderate oven, or over a low fire, to cook as slowly as possible for two hours. By that time the broth will be reduced more than half. Now take out the leg, put it on a small baking-pan, strain the broth, remove the fat, and boil it down a little, adding a gill of Marsala and an ounce of glaze. Pour some of this broth into the pan, put it into the oven, and go on basting the leg every now and then with the remainder of the broth and that in the pan until it is nicely browned. Then dish it with a ring of watercress round it. serving whatever broth may remain in a hot sauce-boat. Hand stewed fillets of cucumber (see Cucumber) with the lamb, and new potatoes d la Parisienne. For these choose small new potatoes the size of a golf-ball. Boil them till nearly done, thenLEG OF LAMB A LA BERCY 249 drain and cool them. Make half a pint of white sauce by melting half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, then stir in four ounces of minced onion, and fry lightly over a low fire for five minutes. Mix in half an ounce of flour, and cook gently till all is well mixed. Now moisten with a gill of white stock and a gill of milk, bring the sauce to the boil, season with salt and white pepper, simmer for twenty minutes, and pass it through a hair sieve. Put the sauce into a stewpan, adding a dessert- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and then put the potatoes into it. Simmer them very gently till quite tender. Then take the pan from the fire, add a dessertspoonful of cream, and empty the potatoes and their sauce into a hot dish. Cold Asparagus is often liked with lamb. For this, boil it in salted water till tender, following Sir Henry Thompson’s method (see Asparagus). Drain it on a perforated dish, and then leave it to get cold in the larder, set over crushed ice. Some people like a few drops of the best French vinegar sprinkled over the Asparagus; but a more delicate sharpness is given by a tablespoonful of light claret. (This remark applies to most salads.) Hand plain cream in a jug which has been set on ice, and let this be the only sauce for the cold Asparagus. Spring- Chicken with Tarrag-on.—Make a forcemeat of the chicken’s liver, a little butter, salt and pepper, and season it with a tablespoonful of blanched and chopped tarragon. Put this neatly inside the chicken, and roast it very carefully, pro- tecting it with buttered paper and a slice of bacon tied over the breast. Make a clear broth with the giblets, vegetables, and half an ounce of glaze. Do not thicken this, but serve it in a boat, and add to it a dessertspoonful of coarsely-chopped tarragon. Garnish the chicken with watercress, and hand bread sauce as well as the gravy. If the flavour of tarragon is thought too strong use rosemary instead. Crepes de Voiaille. —Pick all the remaining meat from a cold roast fowl, remove the skin, and put the meat aside. Break up the carcase, and throw it with all the fragments of skin and bone, and any giblets of the fowl if previously saved, into a stewpan with as much stock as will cover the whole. Bring the broth to the boil, add four ounces of onion and of turnip, one ounce of celery, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt.250 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES Simmer it as long as possible, and then add half an ounce of meat glaze and a gill of sauterne. Strain, skim, thicken with the usual roux, reduce the sauce a little, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolk of a raw egg beaten up with the squeeze of half a lemon. Let the sauce get cold. Now mince the chicken, diluting it with the cold sauce, and adding two tablespoonfuls of minced cooked ham and the same of minced mushrooms. Make two good-sized thin pancakes, and lay them out flat on a large dish. Cover the surface of each with cooked bacon cut as small as possible, spread the chicken mince on this, leaving a margin so that the pancake may envelop it easily. Fold the pancakes over, lay them writh a slice on a buttered baking-dish, brush over the surfaces with a beaten egg, then dredge over them finely-sifted raspings, dot little bits of butter on them, and set them in the oven to heat up and brown. When done lay the pancakes with a slice on a hot dish and serve as hot as possible. Hand the rest of the sauce in a boat. Croquettes Of Game.—Take six ounces of cold cooked pheasant, one of lean ham, one of the fat of the ham, and one of cooked mushroom. Mince all rather finely, and mix them in a soup-plate, seasoning with herb pepper, and covering them up. Now chop up all the trimmings, skin, and bones of a brace of pheasants, pounding the bones in a mortar, and put the whole into a stewpan with a couple of ounces of minced lean of uncooked bacon, four ounces of minced onion, the minced peelings and stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, a dessert- spoonful of dried sweet herbs, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover writh water, bring to the boil slowly, and sim- mer for a couple of hours. Strain, skim, and thicken, using for half a pint of sauce half an ounce of butter and the same of flour. As this is cooking, stir in a quarter of an ounce of dis- solved gelatine, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, half one of red- currant jelly, and a teaspoonful of Marsala. Pass this through the hair sieve. Now put the mince into a clean stewpan, dilute with just sufficient sauce to bring it to the consistency of thick jam, stir over a low fire for five minutes, then put the mixture into a soup-plate, and with a wooden spoon pat it into a round an inch thick. Set it aside to get cold and firm. TV hen thisCROQUETTES OF GAME 251 condition has been reached, mark the mixture off into portions about the size of a bantam’s egg, flour them, egg, and roll them in finely-sifted crumbs. Let them rest for half an hour for the crumbing to dry, then egg again, and roll again in the crumbs. Let this coating dry, then fry a golden colour in plenty of boil- ing fat. Drain and dry the Croquettes, and serve on a hot napkin with the rest of the sauce in a boat. Chicken is good done in the same way. Gelatine is advised because it becomes moist during the frying, and does not dry up as eggs do when used for fixing the Croquettes. Serve with the Croquettes two heads of well-washed and trimmed celery, cut lengthwise, tied together with twine, and simmered very gently in broth till tender. Drain, remove the strings, arrange the celery on a hot dish, and smother it with this sauce. Strain, skim, and slightly thicken the eau de cuisson, and finish, off the fire, with two yolks of eggs beaten up in a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and add a dessertspoonful of finely-minced parsley.252 CHAPTER VIII. POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS. Chickens are always popular, varying as they do from the Poussin of the very smartest dinners to the skinny “ half-fowl ” of the railway-station luncheon basket. Poussins—that is, very young chickens—were originally a Russian delicacy, introduced into England not long ago by Messrs. Baylev, the poulterers of Mount Street. These Poussins, fattened in Sussex by a secret process, made their first public appearance in London at the Derby Day dinner given by the Prince of Wales in 1895, when upwards of fifty, one for each guest, and all of equal size, were served. Now, Monsieur Arnoult, on his poultry-farm at Granibois, not far from Paris, rears quantities of Poussins, or, as the French call them, Poulets mignons, or Poulets de lait. M. Arnoult feeds the little chickens on boiled milk just at first, and then on boiled milk thickened with the best barley flour. On this food the chickens fatten so well that at six weeks old, when they are considered to be in perfection, they weigh a pound and a quarter. The flesh is firm and delicate, and very digestible. In England Poussins are roasted and served on a canape of fried bread; in Paris they are grilled and served with tartare sauce. Parisian doctors recommend them for invalids, for whom indeed such delicacies ought to be reserved. Poussins must be eaten the day they are killed. The American “ broiler ” is in perfection at eight weeks old ; and properly-fed English cockerels weigh nearly five pounds at twelve weeks old. But all Poultry requires careful fattening if it is to be good. Cramming never gives a good result. One recipe of old days advises the feeding of fowls with treacle,POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS 253 suet, and barley meal forty-two times a day, and goes on to say that the survivors (for there must have been many deaths from this martyrdom) would gain four pounds and a half in twelve days. Cramming is now done by a tube, but although weight may be gained the crammed fowl cannot be either wholesome or good in flavour. Coarse fat is too often used in feeding poultry ; the consequence is that the flesh is greasy and not firm, and there is a superabundance of fat which melts in cooking and gives a disagreeable taste to the bird. All Poultry should be plump, but over-fattening is as wasteful as it is unpleasant to the taste. Hen birds are more tender than cocks, and many people consider that chickens with dark legs are better flavoured than those with white legs. Age is best judged by the legs and feet of birds. When young, the legs are smooth, and the scales hardly overlap each other, whilst the spurs of cockerels are merely hard scaly knobs. After the first year the scales on the birds’ legs are rougher and larger, often inclining to be grey in colour, and in cocks the sharp spurs will have pushed their way through the preparatory knobs. Richly-coloured plumage is another sign of age. When Geese and Ducks are young the feet are elastic, pliable, and yellow in colour ; if the feet are red, stiff, and hard it is a sure sign of age. Geese should be eaten when under a year old; after that time their skin becomes hairy, and the flesh coarse and tough. Geese, unlike Ducks, live chiefly on vegetable food. Turkeys originally came from North America. America was then believed to join India, and Turkeys were called Goqs d’Inde, a name which survives in the French dinde. Turkeys should have bright red wattles, an unwrinkled skin, and soft pliable feet. Very large Turkeys are generally old. Guinea Fowl were introduced into this country from Eastern Africa. They are rather dry in flavour, but are useful as coming in when game is over and spring chickens are not ready. Pigeons should be plump, with pliable feet, and must on no account be hung. “ Squabs ” are unfledged Pigeons. Bordeaux Pigeons are much larger than English Pigeons, and when in perfection weigh ten ounces. They are occasionally reared in254 POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS the South of England, but as a rule they come from the South of France, and from Italy. SMALL BIRDS. Quail are migratory birds, and are netted in immense numbers when they have crossed the Mediterranean from the South in March and April, and again, in still larger numbers, on their return journey at the end of September. Quail are hardy enough to bear the journey to England, in cages darkened to prevent the occupants from fighting. Each cage has a trough of water, and another of millet, or hemp-seed. Quail are much improved if this feeding can be continued for a few days after their arrival here, as they very quickly fatten. Plover are also migratory birds. The Grey Plover can be distinguished from the Golden Plover by the attempt at a hind- toe on each foot. The Grey Plover is found at various seasons all over the world. The Golden Plover breeds in Iceland, Siberia, and the North of England. The flocks of Golden Plover are very large, and many birds are caught or shot on their way to their winter quarters in South Africa, as they remain in this country till frost drives them away. The Lap- wing, or Pee-wit, familiar to those who live on “ poor, cold, Pee-witty land,” is found all over the world. It contrives to find food on the most wretched pasture. A down or a fen, an arable field, or a damp meadow, are all alike to the “ Farmer’s Friend,” as the Pee-wit is often called. The eggs of this Plover are a great delicacy, and they are collected and sold to such an extent that one wonders that any Pee-wits still exist. The eggs, like those of the Rook, vary very much in colour and marking, and Rooks’ eggs are substituted sometimes for Plovers’ eggs. Plovers, however, lay their eggs on the ground, whilst Rooks baffle collectors by building their nests on the tops of the tallest trees. In a menu Plovers’ Eggs should be called CEufs de Vanneau, as Vanneau and not Pluvier is the name of the Pee-wit. As to Larks I much regret that they should be eaten at all, and rejoice that such an Association as the Bi’itish Produce Supply declines to sell them. Personally I have never either255 SMALL BIRDS tasted or bought a Lark, for I would not connive at the slaughter of a bird which, to use Izaak Walton’s words, “ breathes such sweet loud music out of her little instrumental throat.” French people eat many more small birds than we do. The Thrashes or Grives which have fed in vineyards are thought a great delicacy in France, and even the Robin Redbreast does not escape. Quantities of Robins are sent to Paris from Lor- raine and Alsace, particularly from the neighbourhood of Metz. The Robin is said to have a remarkably delicate bitter flavour, and (whilst Thrushes are made into pates) “ cet aimable oiseau se mange a la broche et en salmi.” French people excuse themselves for eating Larks, Thrushes, and Robins by saying “ S’il fallait avoir compassion de tout le monde on ne mangerait personne,”—a specious excuse indeed. But this excuse is as nothing compared to that made by the same writer for the production of pate de foie gras, a prepa- ration which I mention only with wonder that any kind- hearted person can encourage the supply by buying it, or by eating it when bought by others. “ To obtain these Goose “ livers of the size required it is necessary to sacrifice the “ person of the animal. Crammed with food, deprived of “ drink, and fixed near a great fire, before which he is nailed “ by his feet upon a plank, this Goose passes, it must be owned, “ an uncomfortable life. The torment would indeed be alto- “ gether intolerable if the idea of the lot which awaits him did “ not serve as a consolation. But this perspective makes “ him endure his sufferings with courage; and when he “ reflects that his liver, bigger than himself, larded with truffles, and clothed in a scientific pate, will diffuse all over “ Europe the glory of his name, he resigns himself to his “ destiny, and suffers not a tear to flow.” * Birds and beasts must no doubt be killed for human food, but it should be done with as little suffering as possible. It is shocking that additional suffering should be inflicted to produce, not a necessary food, but an unnecessary dainty. * “ Alraanach ties Gourmands—Hayward’s Essays.” Vol. ii, p. 424.TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME FOR COOKING. In towns birds are always sent in ready for cooking, but it is well for all cooks and necessary for those living in the country to know how to prepare them. Poultry should always be plucked whilst still warm, as the feathers come off more easily. It is often necessary to scald the pinions in order to draw out the stumps of feathers. Singe off all hairs on the body of the bird with a wax taper, such as is used for lighting gas. Then cut off the head, and open the skin at the back of the neck. Loosen the skin all round, and you will see the soft tube of the gullet and the stiff tube of the windpipe. Follow the gullet in with your finger and loosen the crop which is attached to it. Then take hold of the gullet with a cloth so as to hold it firmly, and gently pull out the whole of the crop or stomach, with its contents. Now draw out the windpipe, cut off the neck close to the body, leaving a flap of skin three inches long. This will fold over the back and close the opening of the neck. Turn the bird on its back and with the point of a sharp knife cut a small slit across under the tail. Take great care in doing this not to scratch or cut the intestines. Insert your finger, and loosen the liver and the gizzard. The gizzard is the second stomach, or muscular stomach, of a fowl. Birds which are not carnivorous have no power of mastication in the mouth, and therefore swallow small stones and gravel, which act on their food in the gizzard as teeth do in our mouths. The gizzard is a large hard mass just under the point of the breast- bone. Enlarge the slit a little, and with your finger and thumb get fast hold of the gizzard and draw it gently forward. The intestines will follow it. Again slip in your finger and thumb and draw out the heart and the liver. Sometimes all these organs will come out together. Be most careful not to break the little bladder full of green liquid which is attached to the liver. This is the gall-bladder, and if it is broken it will give the bird a bitter taste which nothing can remove. Now wipe the inside of the bird clean with a damp cloth. Remove the gall-bladder from the liver. Slit the narrow side of the gizzard, turn it inside out, and remove the bag of hard contents, but do not cut the skin which joins it in theTO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 257 middle. It used to be the custom to thrust the liver through one pinion of the bird and the gizzard through the other; the so-called liver-wing being considered a delicacy. But a far better plan is to cook the liver inside the bird with an ounce of butter, and half an onion if liked. Recollect that just as much is given away to the poulterer in the giblets of a fowl as is given to the fishmonger in the trimmings of fish. All the giblets, except the actual bill or beak and claws, are of use. Scald the feet of the bird, rub them with a coarse cloth to remove the scales, and cut off the last joints of the toes, as these contain the foundation of the claws. Cut off the beak or bill. Cut the head, neck, feet, heart, gizzard, and pinions (that is the tip, or outermost part of the wings), into small pieces. Scald them. Then, as Wyvern advises, fry them with four ounces of onion and three ounces of carrot sliced, in an ounce of butter or clarified suet at the bottom of a stewpan. Shake the pan, and when beginning to colour add half a pint of water or broth, and a glass of Marsala. Reduce almost to a glaze, then add a pint of water or common stock, bring to the boil once, then cover, reduce the heat, and stew gently to extract the whole of the essence from the scraps. When this has been done pour all through a strainer, and cool it for the fat to rise. This having been removed you will have a good basis for your brown sauce for the turkey, or whatever bird it may be. A little lean bacon may be put in, and a couple of sheep’s feet will improve the consistency of the broth. By omitting the browning process a good foundation for a white sauce is obtained. In this way the whole of the bird is used, and nothing is wasted. Another part of a fowl, now seldom mentioned, used to be considered its greatest delicacy. This is the oyster, or, as it used to be called, Les sots y laissent, “ neglected by fools.” The oyster of a fowl consists of two very small and delicate morsels of flesh, situated on either side of the back at the top of the leg. Unfortunately they cannot be taken out before the fowl is cooked without spoiling its appearance, and are thus often neglected. Lord Alvanley, a great epicure at the beginning of this century, would use only these tit-bits for a supreme of chicken, and sacrificed twenty chickens to make one small dish. s25S TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME The oyster exists in all birds, but for some reason it is only thought a delicacy when taken either from chickens or from turkeys. It is well worth while for a cook to take a lesson in trussing poultry from a good poulterer, as the method of doing it is difficult to describe. However, I will give a few simple directions ; first of all for roasting. When the bird has been properly cleaned la}' it on its breast on the board, first turn over the flap of skin left from the neck and draw it as far as it will go down the middle of the back. Then bend the root of the tail and tuck it into the body, drawing up the skin a little. This will close the openings through which the crop and the liver and'other organs were drawn out. Hold up the legs, and working between them twist the end joint of each wing first inwards and then backwards, so that when folded close to the body the end joint of the wing will rest elbow-fashion across the upper joint. Now take hold of the legs and press the thighs well into the sides of the bird to give it a rounded plump look. Thread the trussing needle with twine, and go straight through the joints, first of the lower joint of the right wing, then through the upper joint of the right leg, then through the body of the bird, and finally through the same joints of the leg and wing on the left side. Turn the bird over on its back, fasten the flap left to hide the neck-opening with a stitch, draw the string tolerably tight, tie it, and cut it off. To secure the lower joints of the legs take a stitch upwards through the thick paii a little above where the scales begin, and downwards in the same place on the leg on the other side. This must be done when the bird is a second time turned on its breast. Take one stitch through the skin of the back to keep all secure, carry the string round to the breast of the bird, and tie as before. In this way the fastenings of both the trussing-strings will be on the breast-side of the bird, and can easily be removed when the roasting is finished. Nothing looks worse than a forgotten string when the bird is sent up. It is more troublesome to truss a fowl for boiling, and the method is more difficult to describe. Cut the legs off at the knee-joints, open the skin just above; and pull out the sinews,TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 259 which will be seen like white strings. If the bird is old these sinews are very troublesome to get out; a good way is to wind each separately round and round a skewer, and then to pull, with the fingers wrapped in a cloth to prevent slipping. Now put your finger in at the hole where the bird was drawn, and very gently loosen all the outside skin from the flesh of the legs and thighs. You can now push the joints of the legs quite inside the body. Draw the skin neatly and smoothly down. Truss with string as for a roast fowl, only when you tuck in the tail pass your needle over the ends of the leg bones inside and not outside the bird. These directions apply to Fowls and to Turkeys. In trussing all other birds, including game, the wings are cut off at the first joint, not folded back. The second joint is, as usual, secured with the legs to the sides of the bird. Woodcock and Snipe are not drawn. The heads are skinned and left on, and the long beak is run like a skewer through the joints of the legs and wings and through the body, so as to keep the bird in shape. Woodcock and Snipe need most careful and gentle plucking, as their skin is very delicate and easily tears. The art of boning a bird cannot possibly be taught by a book. One or two lessons are indispensable, as well as neat fingers and plenty of practice. It is most important to cook all Poultry thoroughly. Underdone Poultry is quite as disagreeable to the eye and dis- tasteful to the palate as underdone fish. French people manage the roasting of Poultry much better than we do, for they roast slowly before a wood-fire and are careful to baste the bird continually with butter. Poultry cannot be too moist whilst cooking. Whether a fowl is to be roasted or braised, it should be tied up in a sheet of very well buttered paper and fre- quently basted. It is a good plan to tie a flap of fat bacon over the breast of the bird, and to leave it on till the last five minutes. Then lightly dredge a little flour over the bird, and baste liberally with good butter. If the fowl is very slowly roasted before a cleai’, not a fierce, fire (on no account should it be baked in the oven), well basted, and tied up in a buttered paper till the last five minutes, it will be thoroughly cooked and not in the least greasy.26o TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME Roast Chicken.—Prepare tlie bird as baa already been described, with the liver inside it. Allow an hour and a quarter for a capon, three-quarters of an hour for a large fowl; and from half an hour to forty minutes for a chicken. Bread Sauce.—No recipe for this delicious sauce is equal to Wyvem's. If it is carefully followed Bread Sauce in future will never be the “ spiced bread poultice ” it has too often resembled in the past. No trouble should begrudged in follow- ing the recipe exactly. Wyvern says the backbone of Bread Sauce is the flavouring of the milk with which it is made. That being done it must be carefully strained into a clean saucepan, and the saucepan set in the bain-marie to keep hot. Then have ready stale finely-sifted white crumbs which have been dried in the oven. At the time of serving bi’ing the milk nearly to the boil, and stir into it, off the fire, sufficient crumbs to bring the mixture to the consistency of an ordinary puree, but on no account any thicker. Finally, finish it off with a good tablespoonful of cream at the last moment before serving. In the absence of cream the yolk of one egg, beaten up in a little warn milk till it looks creamy, may be added, off the fire, just at the last, but cream should be used if possible. To flavour the milk you must take a three-ounce onion, peel off the outside skin, blanch it for five minutes in scalding water, then cut it into quarters, and put them with a dozen pepper- corns, six cloves, a blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of salt, into a saucepan containing not less than half a pint of good milk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch your saucepan narrowly, and use a veiy low fire to control the boiling stage. Remove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk looks frothy, let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing thus until the flavour is extracted, adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. Strain it off through a piece of muslin into a clean saucepan, bring the milk nearly to the boil, stir in the crumbs off the fire, as has been described, and at the last moment add the cream. (I have given Wyvem’s exact flavouring, but I confess that I omit the cloves and nutmeg myself.) Milk is essential; water makes a bread poultice and not bread sauce. The reason for stirring theBREAD SAUCE 261 crumbs in off tbe fire is to get a sauce in which crumbs are plainly present as crumbs, and not as a pulp of bread and milk. If the sauce is made early and set to wait in the bain-marie the crumbs will get sodden, and will soak up the milk. Half a pint of milk used in Wyvern’s way will make Bread Sauce for six people. If any is left it makes excellent panada for quenelles, or can be used in shells with pounded chicken or game. The usual quantity of crumbs to allow is two ounces to half a pint of milk. Bread Sauce should be as thick as rich cream. Boiled Chicken.—When the fowl is firmly trussed put it into hot, not boiling, water, deep enough to cover it completely. Bring the water to simmering point, and from that time allow three-quarters of an hour for a large fowl, twenty to twenty- five minutes for chickens. Simmer very gently, skimming all the time. The old-fashioned parsley-and-butter sauce is sometimes liked. For this pick clean a large bunch of parsley, hlanch it in boiling water for five minutes, dry it, mince it very finely, and add enough of the parsley to some warm melted butter to make the butter thickly speckled with green. Add the parsley cold at the last moment, or it will turn brown. It is an excellent plan to put a fowl into the stock for soup when the soup and vegetables are at boiling point. Let it go on boiling for five minutes, and then only simmer till the fowl is cooked. For an old bird this answers particularly well; the fowl gains from the soup, and the soup gains from the fowl. Of course extra sauce must be made, and this should be done by using all the giblets of the bird, as has been described before. Braised Chicken.—Put the chicken into a stewpan in which an ounce of butter has been melted. (The chicken must be trussed as for boiling, and the liver, some butter, and a sliced onion, should be inside it.) Add some slices of bacon above and below the chicken, and pour in a pint of lukewarm stock. Put the cover of the pan on, laying a buttered paper over the chicken, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Then add either a dozen mushrooms or a dozen sauce oysters, and simmer again till the chicken is exceedingly tender. Now take it out, put it on a hot dish, strain the broth and reduce it by boiling quickly to a glaze. Brush the chicken over with theTO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 262 glaze. A brown sauce made of the giblets and well flavoured with the mushroom trimmings should be poured round the chicken. Or oyster sauce should be handed, and a little gravy from the broth poured round the chicken. Spitchcocked Chicken.—This is much the same as the American “ broiler,” and in each case the bird must be quite young. Spitchcock, as with Eels, means split open, and must not be spelt with an A. Split the bird through the backbone with a very sharp knife, season it very well, particularly the inside, with pepper. Then lay it flat on the gridiron with the inner pai't of the bird next the fire. See that the gridiron is hot and very thoroughly buttered, and hold it a good way above the fire. Let the fowl remain on the gridiron till it is half done, which will be in twenty minutes, and be most care- ful that it does not bum. Baste well with butter. Turn it, and broil the other side for twenty minutes. Broil the Chicken a good brown, and serve with broiled or stewed mushrooms. A small fowl will take five minutes less on each side. The Spitchcock can be skewered open, and broiled for twenty minutes in all, in a hanging gridiron. This is far less trouble, and the result is far less good. “Wyvern’s” Spitchcock.—Pluck and clean a chicken, saving the giblets, of which a broth should be made, assisted by any scraps of meat there may be, vegetables, and half an ounce of glaze. Next open the bird down the back, truss the legs and wings as for boiling, and flatten out the fowl like a steak. When to be cooked, wipe the fowl, brush it over with egg, turn it over on a cloth spread with breadcrumbs, and grill it care- fully over a bright fire. To do this effectively the crumbs must be given time to set well, and just before grilling a brush dipped in melted butter should be passed over the bird. Butter the gridiron and see that the fire is not too fierce. Lay the inside to meet the fire first, and turn gently—not too close to the coals ; butter should be brushed over the surface once or twice during the process. Serve as soon as the bird is done, on a hot dish, garnishing with watercress. The clear broth without thickening should be handed in a boat, a dessert- spoonful of coarsely-chopped tarragon being added to it. Hand bread sauce also.CHICKEN A LA TOSCANE 263 Chicken a la Toscane.—Cut up a cold chicken, get all the meat from it, and set it aside. Chop up the bones, skin, and trimmings. Put the bones in a stewpan, cover with milk and water, bring slowly to the boil, add four ounces of onion, one of celery, one of parsley, a bunch of herbs, and the chopped stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms. Add salt and pepper, simmer for one hour, and strain. Turn the liquid to a sauce, passing it through the hair sieve, and adding a tablespoonful of cream. Lay the pieces of fowl in this with the whole mushrooms separately fried and cut into squares, two ounces of cooked macaroni cut very small, and a tablespoonful of coarsely-chopped cooked ham. Heat all up gently, and dust a fine layer of grated Parmesan over all. Serve in an entree dish. [ Wyvem.] Chicken Roasted French Fashion.—When the chicken is trussed leave on the neck. Bend the neck so as to close the opening from which the crop was drawn out, and press it well inside the bird. Weigh the liver, and add to it an equal weight of bacon. Fasten the chicken together with string, and hang it like a bundle to the bottle-jack, neck downwards. Baste it continually with butter, and roast it a warm brown. When done take off the string-, lay the bird in a hot dish, and pour round it (without any additions) the unstrained unclari- fied butter with which the chicken was basted. Be careful to pour the butter round, not over, the chicken. It ought not to be in the least greasy. Poulet au Riz.—Boil a chicken and keep it hot in a covered dish. Blanch six ounces of Patna rice in three quarts of boiling water, using a large stewpan; drain it on a sieve. Put it back in the dry, hot pan with two ounces of butter and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Turn the rice about with a wooden spoon, and add very gradually the eau cle cuisson in which the chicken was boiled. Do this very slowly, making the rice absorb as much as possible. Then empty the rice, steaming hot, over the here chicken, and serve at once. This is the real Poulet au Riz. Plenty of vegetables must have been boiled with the chicken, or it will be tasteless. Flavouring can, if liked, be given by v adding tomato pulp, or grated cheese, to the rice. Boiled Chicken with Oysters.—Fill the inside of the264 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME bird with sauce oysters, put it into a covered earthenware jar, and plunge the jar into a saucepan of water. Bring it to the boil, and let it simmer for an hour and a half. Serve round the chicken the good gravy which it and the oysters will have made. Or let it get cold, and serve it next day with the solidified gravy round it as jelly. Supreme of Chicken.—It used to be the custom to allow six chickens and a whole tongue for this dish, which, although not so wasteful as Lord Alvanley’s Supreme of les sots y la-issent, was very extravagant. One large fowl is quite enough for a Supreme if cleverly managed. Take the fillets from the breast and wings of the fowl, trim them into twelve delicate little fillets. Lay them on a wet board, and bat them with the wet cutlet-bat. Butter a saute-pan, and melt a little butter at the bottom of it. Put the fillets of chicken in, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a very little salt, lay a buttered paper over them, and cook them in the oven for eight minutes. Be most careful not to let them brown. With the giblets of the chicken make a good Velonte sauce (see page 135), coat the fillets with it (see Masking, page 161), and set them to get cold. When served, put a round of cooked tongue the size of half-a-crown on each fillet. This dish is much better cold than hot. Chicken a la Casserole.—Truss the chicken for roasting, and season it well, rubbing the seasoning well in. Wyvern says the best seasoning he ever tasted was composed by bruising a piece of garlic the size of a hazel nut, and adding to it a teaspoonful of finely-powdered dry rosemary, besides salt and pepper. An alternative suggestion is to use a small shallot instead of the garlic, and mince fresh rosemary. In this dish everything depends on the seasoning. When the chicken is seasoned lay it in the casserole with an ounce of fresh buttei'. Turn the chicken about over a very moderate fire till it is slightly brown, then put the casserole, covered with the lid, into a fairly fast oven and keep it there till the fowl is done, basting frequently with brown gravy made from the giblets. Be vei’y careful not to let it burn. Rosemary and Basil, so much used in old English cookery, are now seldom used out of Italy. It is a great pity that theyCHICKEN A LA CASSEROLE 265 should be neglected, for both give an excellent and quite distinct flavour. Fricassee Of Chicken.—Cut the flesh from the breasts and wings of two chickens in neat fillets, making eight pieces, and set them aside. Put all the rest of the chickens in a pan, and boil quickly for two hours in as much water as will just cover the carcases. Take out the stock, add a sliced onion and a sprig of blanched parsley, reduce it one half and strain it. Now take the fillets of chicken, and put them in cold water in a stewpan. Set it on the fire, and when the water becomes just hot change it for fresh cold water. Do this three or four times till the chicken is made white. When it is bleached, drain and dry it. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, add the chicken, then add the stock from the carcases and a few mush- rooms untrimmed. Simmer as slowly as possible for at least one hour. If it boils the chicken will shrivel and become tough. Take the yolks of three eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, and two tablespoonfuls of cream, add a spoonful of the stock and beat up the egg and cream in it off the fire, so as to heat it gradually and prevent the egg from curdling. Add it off the fire to the chicken, and let all just simmer together for five minutes. Arrange the chicken on a border of rice, with some such vegetable as French beans in the centre, or broiled mush- rooms, and pour the sauce round. Chicken Devilled White.—(Family Recipe.')—Braise a chicken for two hours gently in a pint of water, with a bit of carrot, and a small onion sliced. When the broth is reduced to a quarter of a pint or rather more skim off all fat from it. Take out the chicken, when it has cooled a little cut it in joints, and put it back. Make a roux of a tablespoonful of flour mixed in a little butter, pour a little of the broth on it, then add it to the broth, and season with pepper and salt. Let all boil hard five or six minutes. Add three tablespoonfuls of cream and let it boil up. For the sauce, take half a teaspoonful of freshly-mixed mustard, one tablespoonful of Orleans vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Lay the chicken joints on a bed of thoroughly well-boiled rice in a silver dish. Put the sauce in the bain-marie, set in a little hot water, whilst you are doing this. Stir the sauce well together,266 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME and when hot stir it into the broth off the fire just before serving. Pour the broth over the chicken, and serve hot at once. Chicken a la Turque.—(Mrs. G. W. Earle.)—Truss a chicken as for boiling, put it into a deep fricandeau-pan, spread it thickly with butter, and lay therein a dozen pieces of raw ham, some carrots, onions, parsley, and a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; cover with a buttered paper. Braise it for one hour. When it is dished, place round the chicken in groups stewed rice, sultanas, and prunes. Pour a lightly seasoned curry sauce over the chicken, and serve more sauce in a sauce-boat apart if desirable. Chicken Jelly.—Reserve any legs of chickens ; it does not matter how old the chickens are. Simmer slowly in a very little water for one hour. Then take out the bones, pound them, put them back in the pan, and let it simmer again for an hour and a half. If not for an invalid, season with a little white pepper and salt. Pass the jelly through a colander and then strain it through muslin. Pour it into a little china dish and serve cold, with a little grated ham. This jelly is very suitable for an invalid as it is firm enough to need no gelatine. For an invalid use the whole of an old fowl, simmer it in one pint of water, and omit all seasoning. The water must be cold when the bones or chicken are put in. Jambalaia.—This dish, which is a sort of Kedgeree in which the fish is replaced by chicken, is said to have originated in Spain. Boil six ounces of rice as for curry (Chapter XIII), and mince five ounces of raw lean ham and ten ounces of cold cooked chicken. Fry the ham in a small frying-pan with an ounce of butter, then stir in the minced chicken. Put the hot dry rice on a hot fire-proof dish, and turn the ham and chicken out upon the rice. Mix all thoroughly together, and serve very hot, seasoning well with pepper. If liked, a little tomato puree can be stirred into the rice. Minced Chicken aux fines herbes.— Mince half a pound of mushrooms coarsely, add a bunch of herbs, a very little salt, two tablespoonfuls of cream and a slice of bacon cut into small pieces. Stew all well together till cooked, then take out the herbs, and let the rest cool. Add the minced white meat of aMINCED CHICKEN AUX FINES HERBES 267 chicken (or use the legs if the white meat cannot be spared), warm up the whole gently in the bain-marie, and finish with a squeeze of lemon-juice and a sprinkling of finely-minced chervil and parsley. Garnish with croutons of fried bread. Mousse de Volaille.—For this half a pound of white meat must be allowed to a pint of cream. The breast of an old hen is the best to use, but rabbit or veal can be substituted for it. Pound the meat thoroughly in a mortar, adding by degrees half a pint of the cream, and dusting in a little pepper and salt. Pass it through a hair sieve into a basin and work in the other half pint of cream. Butter a plain mould thoroughly, put a buttered paper at the bottom, put the mixture of chicken and cream in, filling the mould about three parts full, and cover with another buttered paper. Steam for one hour as gently as possible. It will be done when the mixture feels firm. Turn it out most carefully, and serve with mushroom sauce, or if the mould is a hollow one put broiled mushrooms in the centre. Or make a veloute sauce with the giblets, pour this round, and put French beans or green peas in the centre. Chicken and Macaroni.—(Family Recipe.)—Mince one pound of white meat as finely as possible. If the meat is fresh simmer it gently in a little veal or chicken stock for three- quarters of an hour. But if it has already been cooked it will only require warming up in a little stock. Simmer some macaroni in salted water till it is quite soft, and cut it into bits the third of an inch in length. Add the macaroni to the meat, dredge a little flour into the pan, and add half a teacupful (a tablespoonful and a half) of thin cream or bechamel sauce. Minced ham or tongue should be cooked with the meat, also the remains of a sweetbread if available. Flavour with mushroom peelings fried. Serve in a hot-water dish with a cover. Caperata.—Take the remains of a cold fowl, mince all the white very small. Break the bones and the back (omitting the legs) and put them with the rest of the trimmings, a little water, a bit of lemon-peel, and a blade of mace in a saucepan. Let them boil till all the substance is out of them, and thicken as usual. Chop up some hard-boiled yolk of eggs, add them and the mince to the sauce, and give it two or three good boils up.268 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME Just before dishing add a squeeze of lemon, a little salt, and cayenne. Score the chicken legs, pepper and salt them, broil them, and lay them on the mince. Cold Chicken Pie.—(Family Recipe.')—This is an excellent way of using old fowls. Take an oval fire-proof dish with a cover. Cut the chicken in joints, arrange them in layers with slices of hard-boiled egg. Cover all with good beef-stock, and let the stock be two inches thick above the chicken. Season with pepper. Cook very slowly in the oven with the cover on. It will take from three to four hours. Take off the cover, leave the pie all night, and serve it cold. Chicken Salad.—Thoroughly cook a chicken ; boiling it is thought by many people better than roasting it. Take off the skin, and cut it into as many joints as it will make. Cut four hard-boiled eggs in quarters, so as to make sixteen pieces. Pull a cos lettuce to pieces, and arrange the chicken on it, making another cos lettuce high in the middle. Take some more white lettuce, and arrange the leaves in a border round the chicken, with the pieces of egg. Pour mayonnaise sauce (see page 136) over this border and over the chicken, but leave the middle lettuce free. Celery may be used instead of cos lettuce. Or sliced cucumbers, peeled, and drained from the water they contain, may be used alternately with cold chicken cut into rounds, and both cucumber and chicken masked, like the lettuce and the celery, with mayonnaise sauce. Arrange mustard and cress or corn salad in the middle of the chicken and cucumber salad. Never use beetroot in a chicken salad. Fried Chicken.—Cut the chicken into joints after it has been wiped or washed clean. Pry each joint in batter (see page 157, garnish with fried parsley. Hand tartai'e sauce (see page 137). Turkeys.—Turkeys ought to hang for a few days before they are cooked. When a Turkey is trussed the scaly part of the legs is cut off. The sinews in a Turkey’s leg are so strong and tough that it is impossible to pull them out in the usual way. The best plan is for one person to hold the body of the bird tightly in a cloth, and for another person to shut the lower part of the Turkey’s legs in the crack of the door, and pull hardTURKEYS 269 at the sinews from the outside, the person inside holding the bird as firmly as possible. A man’s strength is. often needed to pull out the sinews. The stuffing for a Roast Turkey is either made of chestnuts-, sausage-meat, or of a mixture of green hei’bs, breadcrumbs, and suet, for which see page 202. Or the Turkey can be stuffed with mushrooms. The stuffing fills up the breast of the bird, and must be formed into a good plump shape in the trussing. A very large Turkey will take three hours to roast; for one weighing eight to ten pounds allow two hours, and for a small one an hour and half. Do not put sausages round the Turkey in the dish. Boiled Turkey.—Many people consider that “ Turkey Boiled is Turkey Spoiled.” At any rate an old Turkey should never be boiled. If it is to be boiled, boil it in stock with plenty of vegetables. Bring the Turkey to the boil and then let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. The stuffing may be herb stuffing or made of celery or of oysters. About two dozen sauce oysters will be wanted; take off the beards, and stew them in them own liquor for five minutes before using them. Hand celery sauce or oyster sauce. Reduce the broth for gravy to go round the Turkey in the dish. Pulled and Grilled Turkey.—Pull the white meat off the breast of a cold Turkey with a couple of forks. Do not cut it. Warm it up in a good white sauce, flavoured if possible with mushroom peelings. Grill the thighs and pinions of the Turkey, and lay them round the white meat, with pieces of the stuffing fried. Score the Turkey legs after skinning them, and rub them well with mustard flour, pepper, and salt mixed up in a very little butter, but do nof use grill sauce. Galantine.—A Galantine is a valuable cold dish for luncheon, but it cannot be made unless the cook knows how to bone. Galantines are too often tasteless and insipid, but this will not be the case if Wyverns directions are followed. Choose a large fowl or hen turkey, weighing from three and a half to four pounds, and have read)- two pounds of lean veal, three of fat bacon, and one pound of cooked tongue. Pluck and clean the bird, save all the giblets, scald them, cut them up small, and put them on the fire, covered with water to make broth. Now bone the bird. When you sever the pinions, legs, and270 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME neck, draw the skin cai’efully over the places and sew them up, so that the outer skin may be as whole as possible. Cut off all the meat from the pinions and legs, removing the sinews. If the bird is very old it is wise to pass this portion of the meat once or twice through the mincing machine. Flatten the carcase with the cutlet-bat. Break up all the bones that have been taken from the bird, and add them to the giblets. Put in a little more water, so as to cover the whole, and gradually in- crease the heat. When the broth boils add five ounces of onion, of turnip, and of carrot, all sliced, one ounce of celery or a pinch of celery seed, and a bunch of herbs. These vegetables will check the boiling, but as soon as the broth bubbles again reduce the heat to simmering. Make a forcemeat with the veal and two pounds of the bacon, pounding them thoroughly, and seasoning with half an ounce of spiced salt. Blanch the remaining pound of bacon and cut it and the tongue into half-inch squares. Cook a pound of mushrooms in a little broth, and cut them into smallish pieces. Add all the mushroom trimmings and stalks to the forcemeat. Make the body of the bird as neat and level as possible by trimming nearly all the meat off witli a very sharp knife almost to the skin. Add this to the meat taken from the -wings and legs. To pack the Galantine: Spread a layer of forcemeat three- quarters of an inch thick evenly over the bird, upon that a layer of the slices of meat, then a layer of the bacon and tongue squares, then another layer of meat, another of tongue and bacon, and finally a thick layer of forcemeat. Dust spiced salt between each layer, and dot in the pieces of mushroom as you pack the Galantine. Slices of hard-boiled egg may be intro- duced also. Fold the flattened carcase of the bird over this lining, dis- turbing the layers as little as possible. Roll the Galantine tightly in a clean cloth, rolling lengthwise. Twist the ends, tie them tightly, and sew down the hem with a few long stitches of fine twine. Put cross-strings to keep the Galantine in shape. It should be oblong. Now put the Galantine in a deep stewpan, cover it well with the giblet and bone broth271 GALANTINE (to which a glass of Marsala may be added), let it boil once, then cover the stewpan, and draw it back to simmer gently from two to three hours. Forty minutes for every pound of meat is a good time to allow if the bird is old. When done take the pan off the fire, and let the Galantine rest in the broth for one hour to get cool. Then drain it, take off the cloth, wrap the Galantine in a fi’esh dry cloth, and put it between two dishes under a heavy weight. When the Galantine is quite cold take it out, melt off any fat that may adhere to the skin, wipe it carefully, and glaze it a pale-brown. Garnish with broken pieces of aspic jelly, and set it in a cold larder till wanted. In summer the Galantine should be set in the refrigerator. Such a Galantine as this is well worth the trouble of making, and is a good example of the way in which every portion of a bird except the feathers, beak, and claws can be turned to account. Such a Galantine too will be far superior to those seen in shops, smeared with treacly reddish glaze, covered with patterns traced in different colours, and decorated with truffles impaled upon plated skewers. Guinea Fowl.—These birds are apt to be extremely dry, but are excellent if cooked in Wyvern's way. For this, draw and trass the Guinea Fowl as for roasting, saving the giblets for broth, but reserving the liver. Have in reserve, or buy, three more livers (the livers of any kind of fowl will do). Put all the four livers uncooked on a dish, and cut thinly four squares of streaky bacon, three inches long and two and a half wide. Dust over the surface of these with spiced pepper, put a layer of finely-minced shallot over them, and then the livei’s. Roll them up, and with them fill the inside of the Guinea Fowl, sewing up the vent. Bal’d the breast of the bird (that is, cover it with a slice of fat bacon), wrap the bird in buttered paper, and fasten the covering on with tape. Roast the Guinea Fowl before the fire, paying great attention to the basting. A Guinea Fowl is excellent done in this way, and so is a chicken. Allow twenty minutes for roasting. Make the gravy of the giblets, and hand bread sauce and potato chips. Roast Goose.—Stuff the Goose with the stuffing given for ducks at page 203. Fasten the openings tightly at the neckTO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 272 and vent, and roast the Goose for from one and a half to two hours. Cover the breast with buttered paper, and baste the bird well. It is a general saying that a Goose is too much for one person and not enough for two; and, as so much of a Goose is not eaten when the whole bird is roasted, it would be a far better way to remove the legs, using them as giblets, and to stuff and roast merely the breast, like the imported Pomeranian Goose-breasts. Apple Sauce is eaten with Roast Goose. Geese are in season from Michaelmas Day till February. Green Geese or Goslings in June, July, and August. Goslings need a delicate stuffing, such as that recommended for Ducklings, only of course increasing the quantities according to the size of the bird. The old-fashioned sauce was made of a pint of green gooseberries, “ topped and tailed,” rubbed through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and then warmed in a saucepan with an ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Horseradish Sauce is now recommended ; at any rate a sharp sauce is needed for a Gosling. Some cooks do not stuff Goslings at all. Ducks.—Ducks do not need hanging; in fact, if required at once they may be cooked as soon as killed. A Duck requires from three-quarters of an hour to an hour to roast, and must be well basted. Make a good brown gravy of the giblets. The old-fashioned stuffing for a Duck was a coarse moist composition of raw sage leaves, half-cooked onions and apples, and either butter or suet. The stuffing given at page 203 is firm, mild, and delicate. Do not use the livers of the Ducks with the stuffing, but add them to the giblets. Boiled Duck, or Ganeton a, l' Orange.—(Mrs. G. W. Earle.)— Take a good, fat, tame Duck, clean it out and put the liver apart. Singe the Duck, and clean it very carefully. Then mince the liver with a little onion and some grated bacon or ham, add salt and pepper. Put the stuffing inside the Duck. Now close the opening of the Duck; leave the skin of the neck long, and bring it round under the Duck to close the tail. Spread on the table a clean pudding-cloth, and rail the Duck in this rather tightly to preserve the shape. Tie up the two ends of the cloth with string. Put into a stewpan with boiling salted water. Continue to boil it quietly for one hour for an273 BOILED DUCK ordinary Duck, one hour and ten minutes if large. It will then be cooked, and ought to be a good pink colour. (Chickens boiled in the same way are excellent.) Take three oranges, peel them with a spoon, cut the peel in quarters, taking out all the white. Shred the peel as if for Julienne soup, put it into water for seven or eight minutes, and drain it on a cloth. Take the rest of the oranges, removing all the white, and put the pulp into a good reduced stock half glazed. Add two or three spoonfuls of Sauce Espagnole (see page 134) and a little red wine—port is best. Pass through a sieve, and then add the chips of orange peel. Unpack the Duck, serve on a dish, surround with pieces of orange, put a little sauce over the Duck and the rest in a sauce-boat. Duck and Green Peas,—Truss the Duck for roasting, put the liver and a sliced onion inside it, but do not stuff it. Roast it for twenty minutes. Then put it in a stewpan with a pint of beef stock, four blanched sage leaves and a dessertspoonful of blanched mint, pepper and salt, and half an onion sliced. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, and skim off all the fat. Add a quart of shelled green peas (not young peas), cover the pan closely, and simmer for twenty or twenty-five minutes more. Give it one boil up, lay the Duck on a large dish, and pour the peas and broth just as they are round it. The herbs and onion should be in a muslin bag, and must be taken out just before serving. Duckling’S.—In trussing Ducklings the feet are left on, and crossed on the back just above the tail. Cooks do not generally allow sufficient time for roasting Ducklings, and sometimes send them up so raw on one side that it cannot be cut. This is both careless and wasteful. The time allowed should be from twenty to twenty-five minutes. In England Ducklings are not stuffed. French cooks recommend this stuffing. Mince rather small the liver of the Duckling and. two fowls’ livers, three tablespoonfuls of cooked mushrooms, two of bacon, half an ounce of shallot blanched, and a table- spoonful of parsley. Stir into this, in a bowl, a breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs, and one well-beaten egg.' Stuff the bird and sew up the vent, trussing it neatly. Ducklings are somewhat tasteless, so this stuffing is probably an improvement. TheyTO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 274 require careful basting whilst roasting. Delicate young green peas, boiled without any additions, should be served with Ducklings. Pigeons.—Pigeons ought to be completely cleaned as soon as they are killed, or the flavour will be lost. Stewed Pigeons.—The legs of Pigeons are much better used as giblets instead of being left on the birds. Take three or four Pigeons well cleaned, chop up the livers and put them inside the birds. Put the legs and all the giblets into an earthenware stewpan with carrots and onions sliced, a bunch of herbs, and a couple of slices of fat bacon. Lay the Pigeons on the top, and just cover the whole with broth. Let them simmer very slowly till the Pigeons are quite tender. This will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Take out the Pigeons, put them on a hot dish, take the fat off the broth, reduce it to a half-glaze, and pour it round the pigeons. Serve the vegetables in groups as garnish. Hand currant jelly, or a hot compote of bottled cranberries. Roast Pigeons.—Tie fat bacon over the breasts, or the Pigeons will be dry and hard. Put the chopjjed livers inside the birds, and make brown gravy with the giblets added to some stock, as Pigeon giblets are very small. Roast for twenty or twenty-five minutes, basting the Pigeons well. Broiled Pigeons.—Split the birds down the back, pepper and salt them well, and broil carefully on a well-buttered gridiron. Serve with broiled mushrooms. A plainly-broiled Pigeon is often liked by an invalid. Fillets Of Pigeons.—Cut the meat from the breast in one fillet on each side, flatten them with a wet cutlet-bat, and fry in batter. Hand a good gravy made from the carcases of the Pigeons, with a little currant jelly melted in it. Bordeaux Pigeons Stewed with Mushrooms —Clean two Bordeaux Pigeons, and put back the livers after doing so. Truss them for boiling. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put into it six ounces of streaky bacon that has been blanched and cut in squares. Pry the bacon a light brown, take it out and put it on a plate. Next put the Pigeons into the same pan, and fry them in the butter and melted bacon fat till they begin to be brown, then take them out and set them aside with theBORDEAUX PIGEONS 275 bacon. Now stir an ounce of flour into tbe stewpan, making a roux with the butter left in it, and when it is mixed moisten with a pint of broth. Add the stalks and peelings, chopped small, of half a pound of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, stir over the fire till boiling, simmer ten minutes, skim, and strain through a pointed strainer. Wash out the stewpan, put the Pigeons into it with the strained sauce, a bunch of herbs, the pieces of bacon, and a Spanish onion weighing eight ounces, cut into quarters and blanched beforehand. Simmer twenty-five minutes, add the peeled mushrooms, simmer for ten minutes longer. All being now done, take out the Pigeons, cut them in halves, lay them on a hot dish, remove the bag of herbs, and after straining the sauce skim the fat off it. Garnish the pieces of Pigeon with the mushrooms, bacon, and onion (if liked), heat up the sauce, pour it over them and serve. [ Wyvern.] Roasted Bordeaux Pigeons.—1Take three Bordeaux Pigeons, and fill their cavities with this stuffing. Take three ounces of breadcrumbs soaked in milk, one ounce of cooked fat bacon cut into very small pieces, the livers of the Pigeons and one chicken’s liver minced, two ounces of chopped mushroom, a dessertspoonful of minced garden herbs (or a teaspoonful of powdered dried herbs), pepper, salt, and one well-beaten egg. Mix all well together. Tie bacon over the Pigeons’ breasts, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast briskly for fifteen minutes, basting with melted butter, and removing the covering during the last five minutes. Cut each bird in half with a sharp knife, and lay the halves on crisply-fried croutes of bread. Garnish with watercress, and serve with clear gravy and bread sauce. [ Wyvern.'] Or simply roast the Bordeaux Pigeons, and serve them with almond sauce. For this, take four ounces of Jordan almonds weighed after scalding and skinning, dry them before the fire, chop them, and bruise them to a coarse-grained powder in a mortar. Melt an ounce of butter in a small saute-pan, empty the almond powder in, and stir patiently over a low fire till the almond grains turn a pale brown. Then mix in an ounce of flour, blend well, and add three gills of white broth, seasoning with a pinch of pepper, half a saltspoonful of mace, and the T 2276 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME same of salt if required. After bringing to the boil put the sauce into the bain-marie without straining, and when on the point of serving stir into it a tablespoonful of cream. \Wyvern.'\ Chaudfroid of Bordeaux Pigeons. —Stuff them as for stewing with mushrooms, braise them in broth till quite tender. Let them get cold, glaze them with the reduced broth. Cut each in half, and arrange round a centre of chopped aspic jelly. Bordeaux Pigeons are in season for some months from the beginning of January. SMALL BIRDS. Quail are drawn unlike other birds. Pluck them very gently, singe them with a wax taper, then make an opening at the back of the neck, draw out the crop by gently pulling at the head of the Quail, but leave the trail inside the bird. Some cooks, however, remove the trail in the usual way. Truss Quail for roasting, but cover each bird first with a fresh vine leaf and then with a thin slice of fat bacon, so that only the ends of the legs are exposed to the full force of the fire. The Quail will take from eight to twelve minutes to roast, and must be continually basted with melted butter. Quail should be trussed on a skewer, and roasted side by side. They are best served quite plain on squares of crisp toast, with brown gravy and breadcrumbs handed. The toast should be spread with all the butter and gravy which drips from the Quail while basting. Quail can be cooked in a variety of ambitious ways, and boned and elaborately stuffed, but they are never better than when plainly served as above. For the brown gravy see page 281. Plover.—Plover are not drawn. Fasten bacon over the breasts, and roast for ten or twelve minutes, basting all the time with butter. When the birds begin to turn brown put a square of buttered toast under each, (the toast must be freshly made), and let it catch the butter and gravy from the basting during the last five minutes of the cookiug. If the toast remains longer in the dripping-pan it will be sodden. Serve each Plover on its toast, and hand brown gravy.277 GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL. When Game is bought it has to be chosen more carefully than Poultry, partly because Game is better for a certain amount of hanging, and partly because it is sold unplucked. There are two tests by which the freshness of Game may be ascertained. One of these is the condition of the eye. If, when the eyelids are opened, the eye itself looks bright and clear, the bird is fresh. But if the eye has sunk almost out of sight, the bird has been dead for several days. The other test is to pull a feather from the plumage at the lower part of the back, above the tail. If the feather comes out very easily the bird has been hung quite long enough. As in the case of Poultry, the condition of the legs and feet reveal the age of Game. Besides this, if the bird is held at arm’s length by the lower mandible (the lower half of the beak), the mandible in a young bird will snap across. But if the mandible will bear the weight without breaking, the bird is undoubtedly old. A bird which shows signs of having been badly shot should never he bought, for the bruised and injured parts will soon become uneatable. If such a bird is brought in fresh from the shooters, draw and pluck it at once, cut out every bruised part, and cook the bird as soon as possible. It is well when birds are brought in from shooting to draw them as soon as can be managed, to give the cavity a rinse with cold water, wipe it quite dry, and put a piece of charcoal into it before the bird is hung up. Woodcock and Snipe are not drawn; nor are Plover. Cock Pheasants are easily distinguished from hen Pheasants; in Partridges the cocks have reddish-brown plumage on the breast, whilst these feathers in the hen are a plain light brown. Pheasants are always better for hanging for three or four days ; and the same rule applies to Partridges, Grouse, and Blackcock. Hares ought to hang about a week, but they require care. They must he hung up by the hind-legs, and, if shot at home, it is better not to clean them till they are skinned. If there are several Hares in a larder a long narrow box, like a window-box, should be filled with broken charcoal and set on the floor of the larder close to the Hares. At the end of a week the27S GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL charcoal will have absorbed all impurities, and will form a valuable fuel for the kitchen stove. In a young Hare the nails are smooth and sharp, and the ears are soft and will tear easily. Old Hares have worn nails, and long yellow teeth ; they are only fit for soup. In buying a Hare the eye, as in Game, is the best test of its condition; and a freshly-killed Hare will be stiff. A bought Hare is sure to have been cleaned ; in this case remove its heart and lungs, wipe the cavity, and put some pieces of charcoal into it. Leverets should be only hung for a day or two. Rabbits should only be eaten when quite fresh. Many farmers are glad to supply them, and it is much better to make an arrangement of this kind than to buy Rabbits from a shop. “ Ostend Rabbits ” are said to be tame Rabbits; when sold skinned it is quite possible that they may be cats. Foreign Game—that is, Ptarmigan, Hazel Hens (from Germany and Russia), and Prairie Hens (from America)—is apt to be somewhat dry and tasteless, but it can be made very palatable by careful cooking, and is useful when English Game is over. The best way of judging of the condition of Foreign Game is by its plumage. If the plumage, even after close packing and long travelling, is soft and full, the bird is pretty sure to be good. To cook this Game, cover well with bacon and then with buttered paper, and baste continually. Hand bread sauce, fried crumbs, and brown gravy. Venison is generally either a gift or a possession, for it is an expensive luxury to buy. English Buck Venison is in season from May to September; a haunch costs three guineas, and a neck from fifteen shillings to one guinea. Doe Venison is in season from November to January ; the haunch is sold at thirty shillings, and the neck from ten to twelve shillings. Scotch Roe-deer Venison is in season during the autumn, and although it is often despised it can be made into a thoroughly good dish, quite unlike the Beh-braten of a German Spa, which, whether the animal was a i’oe or a goat, is always dry, tasteless, and leathery. Venison, like mutton, is improved by age. The hoof shows the age of a deer, for when young the cleft is small, shallow, and smooth; as the deer ages, the cleft becomes deeply cut and rough.279 GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL Venison requires great care in keeping, but it will keep good longer tlian any other meat. By far the best way to keep Venison is in a marinade. In this way the flavour is much improved, the meat is more juicy and tender, and there is no danger from flies. The best marinade for Venison is thus described by Wyvern: “ Take four ounces of carrot, eight “ ounces of onion, a tahlespoonful of mixed herbs, fresh or “ dried, and one ounce of parsley. Put them in a stewpan “ with one ounce of hutter, and fry for five minutes. Then “ add one pint of vinegar, one quart of water, one ounce and a “ quarter of salt, half an ounce of pepper, and a blade of mace. “ Boil up, simmer for half an hour, strain, and either use at “ once or bottle for use. Turn the Venison constantly in this “ pickle.” Of course for a large joint the quantities can be increased, always keeping the same proportions. If the other method is followed, the kernel in the fat of the haunch of Venison should be cut out, like that in a leg of mutton; the part should then be wiped dry and well rubbed with pepper and ground-ginger to keep off the flies. Dust the whole haunch with pepper and ginger, and hang it up in a muslin bag. Be careful to examine it every day. A neck of Venison should be wiped dry with a cloth, and hung up. It is not generally known that if a piece of Venison from the shoulder or leg, or any Venison bones, are put into the stock-pot the soup will have a delicious flavour which nothing else can give. Wild Duck should have small pliable reddish feet, and each bird should feel heavy in proportion to its size. The three varieties of Wild Duck generally eaten in England are in season from the autumn to the end of March ; and the plumage of all is beautiful. I will merely describe the colours of the head of each as a means of distinguishing them. Wild Buck.—Head, crown, and upper part of neck, rich dark metallic glossy green, ring of white about the neck. Weight of Duck, about two pounds and a half—over forty ounces. Teal.—Head rich chestnut brown, black belt round the eye, with narrow stripe of buff edging the dark belt, and losing itself in the chestnut colour at back of the neck. Weight of Teal, about eleven ounces.GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL 280 Widgeon.— Head rich chestnut sprinkled with black. A band of yellowish-orange and cream colour extends over the crown of the head. Weight of Widgeon, about twrenty-four ounces. The Wild Goose, or Grey Lag Goose, is believed to be the original parent of all varieties of Geese. It weighs from eight to nine pounds. The Wild Goose still breeds in Scotland, and possibly in Ireland. It is in season during the winter and early spring, but as the flavour is apt to be fishy the Goose should be skinned before it is cooked. All aquatic birds are fishy in the spring. One way of counteracting this is to skin them as soon as they are killed ; another way is to use the fillets only. An old-fashioned method is to baste the bird for the first ten minutes with salted wrater in which an onion has been boiled; after that time to baste with butter only. If the fillets are used, broil them. Canvas-back Ducks are a delicacy peculiar to North America. It is an excellent plan to stuff an English Wild Duck with celery, as this gives a flavour somewhat like that of the canvas-back, which feeds on the wild celery it finds in the marshy parts of North America. ON THE COOKING OF GAME, VENISON, & WILD FOWL. The cooking of Game differs from the cooking of Poultry in the fact that it is very easy to spoil the flavour by over-roasting. All Game birds should be roasted with their livers chopped and put inside them with either an ounce of butter or a slice of fat bacon rolled up. Partridges and Pheasants are improved in flavour by putting a shallot inside them. Game birds must be very carefully plucked, singed, and trussed according to the rules already given for Poultry. It is essential to roast them before a clear fire, and they must never be baked in the oven. The breasts of Game Birds should be covered with a wide slice of fat bacon fastened on with tape, and the bird itself wrapped in a buttered paper. It must be very frequently basted with butter whilst roasting. A few minutes before the bird is done uncover it, so that281 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON the breast may take colour. If the thick part of the leg “ gives ” when pressed with the finger, it is ready. Either bread sauce, brown gravy, or fried breadcrumbs are served with Game Birds, and with some birds all three are required. I have already given Wyvern’s recipe for Bread Sauce, page 260. His recipes for brown gravy and fried breadcrumbs are equally excellent, and if carefully followed neither will be in the least greasy. Fried Breadcrumbs.—Make four ounces of breadcrumbs by putting a few thin slices of bread into the oven and keeping them there till they turn a golden colour and are quite crisp. The oven ought not to be at all quick, or they will burn. Pound them in a mortar, or roll them into crumbs on a board with a rolling-pin. Sift the crumbs with a wire sieve so as to get them of an even size. Then put a couple of ounces of butter in a frying-pan over a low fire ; when quite hot put in as many crumbs as the butter seems likely to moisten. Stir about to encourage absorption, and add more crumbs if necessary. Dry the crumbs in the oven and serve. This drying in the oven will prevent greasiness. Brown Gravy.—This strong, pure, clear gravy to be served with Game Birds has to be made, as the birds them- selves do not yield enough. For one pint of gravy procure one pound of fresh fowl giblets, half a pound of lean gravy beef, and use the giblets of the Game Bird besides. Cut the beef into little squares, wash, scald, and dry the giblets, and cut them into very small pieces. At the bottom of a stewpan put a layer of sliced onion with an ounce of clarified beef dripping, and over that lay the cut-up meat and giblets. Put the pan over a low fire, and fry till the contents are slightly coloured, then pour into it a small coffeecupful of water or broth. Keep the fire low, and reduce gently till a light brown glaze forms at the bottom of the stewpan, turning the meat, etc., during the cooking so that all may be coloured evenly. Add now a pint of water, a bunch of herbs, two ounces of carrot, two cloves (if liked), a quarter of an ounce of salt, and six peppercorns. Increase the heat under the pan, and bring it to the boil. Then ease off the fire again to simmering point, keeping the pan three parts covered. The simmering must be carefully maintained,COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON 282 for if allowed to boil the gravy will not be clear. After an hour’s cooking in this manner the gravy may be strained off into a bowl in which it must rest till the fat can be taken off and the sediment has settled. This having been done, the gravy only requires to be heated in the bain-marie when it is wanted. This gravy is of course handed in a sauce-boat. It may seem a great deal of trouble to follow this and similar recipes exactly, but it is by attention to these niceties (which are by no means trifles) that good cooking can be dis- tinguished. It is not by dissolving a spoonful or two of Bovril in hot water—excellent as Bovril is in its way—that such gravy as Wyverns can be made. GPOUSe.—Grouse are in season from the twelfth of August till the tenth of December. Allow thirty minutes for roasting a Grouse, being careful to follow the directions already given. Hand bread sauce, fried breadcrumbs, and brown gravy. In Scotland gravy is never served with Grouse, and if it were it would be made from another Grouse, as meat gravy is con- sidered to spoil the flavour. Scotch cooks put toast under the Grouse to catch the dripping, and serve the birds on it, handing thin melted butter instead of bread sauce. Partridges.—Partridges are in season from the first of September to the end of February. Allow from twenty to twenty-five minutes for roasting a Partridge. Hand bread sauce, fried crumbs, and brown gravy. Partridges au Chou.—This is an excellent way of cook- ing old and tough Partridges. Truss them as for boiling, and put an onion inside each bird. Cut a savoy cabbage into four, blanch each piece in boiling water, and steep them in cold salt and water for one hour. Lay at the bottom of a roomy stewpan slices of fat bacon, two carrots, and two large onions sliced in rings, add a sprinkling of herbs, and a dusting of salt and pepper. Lay the Partridges on this bed, divide and surround them with the pieces of cabbage, and add one or two slices of streaky bacon. Make a strong broth of a pound of fowl giblets, the giblets of the Partridges, one or two sheep’s feet, and an ounce of glaze, seasoning with herbs, pepper, and salt. Let this cover the birds. Put a buttered paper over them, cover the pan closely, bring it to the boil once, and then let it283 PARTRIDGES AU CHOU simmer for an hour and a half. Take out the Partridges and the bacon, cover them up and keep them hot. Strain the broth, take away the onion altogether, and put the cabbage into a stewpan over a moderate fire, stirring it about till the moisture is expelled from it. Take the fat off the broth, add any spare broth there may be to bring it to a full pint. Thicken this with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Dish with the cabbage in the centre, and the Partridges, divided in half, laid neatly upon it, with the pieces of bacon as a garnish all round. On no account pour the gravy into the dish, but hand it very hot in a boat. A much more delicate flavour is given if cos lettuces are used instead of savoy cabbage. For this, prepare the lettuces as for stewing (see page 347), and then proceed as above. Bordeaux Pigeons make an excellent dish done au chou. Pheasant.—Pheasants are in season from the first of October until the first of February. Roast Pheasant.—Allow from three-quarters of an hour to an hour for roasting, and be very careful to baste the bird often. Hand brown gravy, bread sauce, and fried crumbs. Boiled Pheasant.—Boil like a chicken with plenty of vegetables. Serve with Celery Sauce. For this, choose good sticks of Celery, wash and wipe them, pare off any discoloured parts, but do not scrape the sticks. Cut up the Celery, put it into cold water and let it come to the boil. Strain off the water, and add to the Celery a pint of milk, and a pint of veal or chicken stock. Bring it again to the boil, skim, and let the Celeiy simmer till quite tender. This will take about two hours. Thicken, stir well, pass the sauce through a strainer, add a tablespoonful of cream, and keep it warm in the bain- marie. This is less rich and less troublesome than the old- fashioned way of boiling the Celery in half a pint of cream, stirring it all the while ovei’ a low fire. It is an improvement to stuff the Pheasant itself with Celery cut in pieces and blanched for a few minutes in boiling water. Fill the cavity of the bird with this and its chopped liver ; a little onion may be added. Black Game.—Black Cock and Grey Hen are in season from the twentieth of August till the tenth of December.284 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON Cook and serve Black Game like Grouse, only allowing more time, as the birds are much lai’ger. A Black Cock generally Aveiglis four pounds, whilst the largest Grouse does not weigh half so much. Woodcock.—Woodcock is generally very lightly roasted ; indeed some people say that the bird is sufficiently cooked if it is merely carried through the kitchen. The reasonable time to allow for roasting it is a quarter of an hour. Woodcock are not drawn, and, as has already been observed, their skin is so thin that they must be plucked with the greatest care. Bacon must be tied over the breast, and the bird must be continually basted. A piece of buttered toast should be laid in a baking- tin under the Woodcock so as to receive all the droppings whilst it is roasting. Serve the bird on this toast, and hand fried potatoes. Snipe.—Snipe are best roasted in the Dutch oven, and great care is needed to prevent their getting dry. Allow from eight to ten minutes for roasting. Cover the breasts Avith bacon, and do not cease basting. Lay a square of buttered toast under each Snipe to catch the melted butter and gravy which fall from the bird, and serve the Snipe on the toast as hot as possible. Woodcock and Snipe are both in season from October to March. Salmis of Game.—It is a very general belief that a Salmis should only be made of Game which has previously been cooked. This is a great mistake, for the best foi’m of Salmis is made of Game which has purposely been lightly cooked before it is stewed as a Salmis. Another frequent error is to spoil a Salmis by loading it AArith truffles, cocks’ combs, and all sorts of additions. For a Salmis as simple as it is good Wyverris method is in all ways to be recommended. It applies to Grouse, Black Game, Pheasants, and Wild Duck. Slightly roast the game before a fast fire, basting well vrith melted butter and bacon fat. Take the birds away as soon as they have browned nicely, and let them get cold. W hen cold, carve from each bird the Avings, breast, and legs, and trim each piece as neatly as possible, removing the skin from it. lake all the trimmings and put them Avith the carcases, chopped up,SALMIS OF GAME 285 into a stewpan ; add a slice of liam, also cat up and put in a couple of shallots, a bouquet of sweet herbs, two cloves (if liked), the least dust of cayenne, and a saltspoonful of salt. Add a gill of Marsala and as much broth as will just cover the con- tents of the saucepan. Set it to boil, then simmer for a couple of hours, strain off the liquid, and when quite cold take off all fat. In a separate saucepan make a roux with one ounce of flour and one of butter, and proceed to thicken the broth. Let it get cool, put the pieces of the birds into it, and let the whole rest for at least an hour, marinading, as it were, so that the meat may be well flavoured. When time to serve, put the pan containing the Salmis in the bain-marie, and let it gradually become hot, adding to it a tablespoonful of Marsala and a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice or Seville orange-juice. Arrange the pieces of game neatly in a hot silver dish, and pour just enough of the sauce over them to glaze them, serving the remainder in a hot sauce-boat. The treatment of small birds, such as Quail or Snipe, which can be made into a Salmis whole, and of Partridges, Plover, etc., which can be divided into halves, is slightly different. For this method, truss the birds for roasting, put an ounce of butter in a stewpan and fry in it a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon cut in pieces one inch long and half an inch thick. When turning colour, put in the birds to cook for eight minutes, and then dredge an ounce of flour over them. Pour into the stew- pan three gills of strong broth and one gill of Marsala, bring- this gently almost, but not quite, to a boil, stirring to prevent lumping, and the Salmis is ready. Take the birds out of the pan, set them on a hot dish and pour the sauce over them. To make a Salmis of cooked Game cut the pieces as neatly as possible, and put all trimmings, bones, and scraps into a sauce- pan -with a small onion minced, and a bunch of herbs. Pour in a pint of broth, and let it simmer, closely covered, for one hour. Skim, strain, add a gill of Marsala and a teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Give the sauce a boil up, then let it cool. Put the pieces of Game into it, and gradually warm up both together in the bain-marie till quite hot. Serve in a hot dish with croutons of fried bread. To Cook Venison.—English and Scotch Venison, whether286 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON fallow deer or red deer Venison, does not, if properly hung, require any marinade to make it tender. A marinade is, however, far the best way of keeping off flies. (Fora Venison marinade see page 279.) The time for hanging a Haunch of Venison is from fourteen to twenty-one days. Haunch Of Venison.—The Haunch is the hind-leg and loin of the deer. Cover the whole joint with well-buttered paper, then with a paste of flour and water, rolled out half an inch thick, and over that another buttered paper. Keep all in place by tapes, or by string laced together. Roast the Haunch before a clear fire, and keep basting it continually. It will take at least five hours to roast. After the Haunch has been roasting four hours and a half take off the coverings, and try with a skewer if it is nearly done. If the skewer can pass quite easily down to the bone in the thickest part of the Haunch, draw the joint a little away from the fire, and baste it every few minutes with melted butter. Just at the last, dredge the Haunch lightly with flour so as to froth the surface. Make a good gravy with the trimmings of the Haunch. If a sweet flavour is liked melt three tablespoonfuls of currant jelly in either a glass of port or a glass of claret, and add it to a pint of gravy. If a sharp sauce is wanted, allow for the same quantity of gravy a glass of port or claret, and a gill of raspberry vinegar. Hand currant jelly in another sauce-boat. French beans ought to be served with Venison. If possible serve Venison in a metal dish over a lamp, as it very soon chills. Neck of Venison.—Roast it, covered with buttered paper and a paste, but let the paste be thin. It will not take quite so long to roast as a neck of mutton. Hashed Venison.—Cut the Venison into neat slices, and for every pound of meat have ready three-quarters of a pint of strong broth. (If possible make the broth from uncooked Venison.) Make a marinade in an earthenware bowl by mixing together two gills of light claret, in which a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved, half a gill of good French vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed shallot, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful each of cliopjied thyme and marjoram, half a saltspoonful of black pepper, and287 HASHED VENISON one of salt. Arrange all the slices of Venison on a large joint dish, spreading them over its surface, having first carefully trimmed off all skin and gristle ; then pour the marinade over them. Let them lie in this as long as possible (say from before breakfast till nearly luncheon time), turning them occasionally. To complete the broth put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt and mix in an ounce of flour, and stir over a low fire till lightly browned. Then pour in the broth by degrees, as well as the marinade strained from the meat. Bring to the boil, skim carefully, and continue the boiling, stirring well till the sauce is reduced one-third. Now cool it somewhat, and strain it over the slices of Venison, which should be laid in another saucepan. Place this over very gentle heat till hot enough to serve. It must not boil. Then keep it in the bain-marie closely covered till wanted. All hashes and minces are improved by being kept at gentle heat in the carefully-made sauce. \Wyvern.~\ Serve Hashed Venison in a deep dish with a spirit lamp, and hand currant jelly. Roebuck.—Keep the joint in the Venison Marinade given at page 279 for three or four days, turning and basting it frequently. When required, take it out, wipe it, hold it for a minute before a bright fire to seal the juices, and lard it. Roast it, covered with buttered paper, like a hare. For the sauce, take one pint of the marinade, boil and strain it; thicken with half an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter ; colour' with caramel, reduce a little, add a tablespoonful of marsala, and serve. [Wyvern.'] Roebuck is excellent if jugged according to the recipe for Jugged Hare. Slices of Venison can be grilled on a well-buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Or, when Venison is plentiful, steaks, an inch and a half thick can be cut from the leg, and broiled, or chops from the loin. Gi’eat care must be taken that the fat does not burn, for the fat of Venison is considered a great delicacy. In carving a Haunch of Venison have the joint lengthwise before you, the knuckle bone being the furthest point. Cut just round the top of the knuckle, holding the knife in a slant- ing position, but be careful not to let out the gravy. Then cut288 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON down the whole length from the cut made across the knuckle, cutting in slices. The greater part of the fat will be found on the left side of the Haunch as it lies before you, and a little should be added to each slice of the meat. Wild Duck.—Wild Duck of all varieties are plucked, drawn, singed, and cleaned like poultry. In trussing Wild Duck the feet are left on and crossed at the bottom of the back, to do which the legs must be twisted out of joint at the second joint above the feet. Wild Duck are liked very lightly roasted. Cover the breasts with fat bacon, and baste well. Roast the Wild Duck before a clear fire, taking off the bacon five minutes before it is done. Allow for Wild Duck from fifteen to twenty or twenty-five minutes ; for Widgeon about the same; for Teal from twelve to twenty minutes. The outside should look browned and plump, and the flesh should be juicy and full of gravy. Vale Royal Poivrade Sauce for Wild Duck.—(Family Recipe.)—Put an onion sliced in vinegar into half a pint of strong gravy boiled clear. Add six tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar. Boil for half an hour and serve quite hot. Bigfarade Sauce.—Pare as thinly as possible the land of two Seville oranges, cut the peel into thin shreds, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; drain, and put them aside. Melt half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir into it half an ounce of flour, stir over a low fire till beginning to brown, and add by degrees half a pint of strong broth (with which should be boiled the giblets of the ducks), season with spiced pepper and salt, and the juice of the oranges. Add a pinch of sifted sugar, a tablespoonful of red wine, and half an ounce of good glaze. Now strain the sauce into a clean sauce- pan, add the boiled rinds of orange, stir till the sauce boils, and serve in a boat. [Wyvern.'\ Sauce for Wild Duck made on the Table.—1. Score the breast of the bird two or three tunes all the way down, and introduce salt and a little black pepper. Cut a lemon in half, powder over it not quite half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and squeeze both halves ovei' the bird. Add half a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, and a dessertspoonful of port wine. Mix all with the gravy of the bird, and baste the duck well. [Family Recipe. ]289 SAUCE FOR WILD DUCK 2. Score the breast as above, and let the gravy run out bountifully. Add first two tablespoonfuls of Burgundy, then a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and either six drops of Tabasco or a teaspoonful of Chili vinegar. Stir the gravy round with a spoon, and baste the breast of the bird liberally with it, then go on with the carving. [ Wyvern. ] 3. Have some gravy in a little saucepan with a spirit- lamp, squeeze in half or all of a lemon according to quantity required, and add a little red wine (port is best), and some cayenne pepper. When warm, pour it over the slices of wild duck on each plate. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.] A celebrated sauce for Wild Duck is made by mixing together a saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of cayenne, a dessertspoonful each of lemon-juice, pounded sugar, and mush- room ketchup, with two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce and the same quantity of port wine. The bird must be put on the dish without any gravy, the breast sliced, and the sauce poured over the bird so as to mix with its own juices. Another old- fashioned sauce which is good with all kinds of Wild Fowl is to put into a saucepan half a pint of gravy, a few leaves of sweet basil, a shallot sliced, and a bit of lemon-peel. Boil for a few minutes, strain, then add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Warm the sauce up, and serve hot in a boat. Cayenne Pepper and quarters of lemon should always be handed with Wild Fowl. A favourite addition is a salad of washed and picked watercress, mixed with orange-juice and a few drops of salad oil, and garnished with quarters of orange. The remains of Wild Duck can be minced, and warmed up in some of the sauce mixed with curry powder. But far the best way of cooking Wild Fowl or Tame Ducks or Geese is so to manage them that the parts never eaten at table are yet never wasted. This method was introduced by Wyvern, and is applicable to all sorts of Ducks. For Geese the breast should be cut into long fillets and grilled in the same way. This is the recipe as applied to Teal. For six persons allow three Teal. If they are bought, order them to be merely plucked. Clean the Teal, saving the giblets. Lay them on a board, and by passing a knife all round each bird remove the uCOOKING OF GAME AND VENISON 290 whole of the breast with the bones left in it. Put these three breasts on a clish, pour over them a marinade consisting of two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a teaspoonful of good vinegar, half an ounce of minced shallot, a teaspoonful of dried herbs, and the peel and juice of a Seville orange. Turn and baste them with this during the day. With the debris of the Teal—back, legs, wing-bones, and giblets well chopped up—proceed to make a strong broth by simmering them (covered with broth) very slowly, assisted by three ounces each of onion and carrot, a bouquet of herbs, a bunch of parsley, and seasoning, for at least an hour and half. Strain—there should be three-quarters of a pint of broth—thicken, skim, add half an ounce of glaze, a sherry glass of port, the juice of one lemon and the juice of one orange. Give this one boil and set it in the bain-marie. When required, take the breasts of the Teal from the marinade, wipe them carefully, then brush them over with butter and grill them. Divide each breast in halves by a clean cut across the centre, lay the six pieces on six croutes of fried bread. Hand the sauce, and Nepaul pepper, with an orange salad. HARES AND RABBITS. Hares, as has already been said, are better for hanging just as they are for a week. Rabbits, on the contrary, should be cleaned and cooked whilst quite fresh. To skin a Hare, cut off all four legs at the first joint above the feet, then slit the skin all along the stomach as far back as the tail. Lift up the skin and pull the hind-legs out of it as if you were pulling a finger out of a tight glove. Leave the tail, and draw the skin (like taking off a stocking) over the back and the head, pull out the fore-legs as you did the hind-legs. The skin will generally break before you can pull the ears out of it; in this case you must skin the ears,inside and out, afterwards. Take out the eyes. Takeout the inside of the Hare, being most careful not to break the intes- tines (or, as cooks call them, “ the pouch ”) nor the gall-bladder, which is attached to the liver. It is better to leave the kidneys in the Hare, taking out the heart, liver, and pouch. Wipe the inside of the Hare well with a dry cloth. Rabbits are skinned and cleaned in exactly the same way, but, unlike Hares, they291 HARES AND RABBITS must be thoroughly -washed inside with salt and water. If Hares and Rabbits are stuffed, this must be done before they are trussed, and the opening of the stomach (which has been filled with the stuffing) must be neatly sewn up. Although we may not all feel like the young lady in Miss Broughton’s Nancy, who could not sit in the room with a roast Hare, there is something very repulsive in the hunted, terrified •expression of its face, with the lips tightly drawn back from the grinning teeth. In Germany the rable, or saddle, of the Hare is sold by itself, without the head, neck, shoulders, and thighs ; these are sold separately, and used for jugging or for soup. It is much the best way to follow this German plan here, always cooking the Hare in English fashion. Never buy a Hare ready trussed; if you do the valuable parts of the inside are nearly sure to be. gone, and the body of the Hare will be so muon tortured out of shape that the stuffing cannot be extracted from it without great exertion on the part of the carver. Many cooks use the blood of a Hare, but, as in the recipe for Hare Soup, I shall avoid that ingredient altogether. When the Hare is skinned, cleaned, and wiped inside and •out, it is an excellent plan to leave it to marinade all day. For this marinade use a claret-glass of Orleans vinegar, of port wine, and of muslirc- im ketchup, in which a tablespoonful of ■currant jelly has been dissolved. Add a teaspoonful of spiced pepper, six peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, a chopped onion, and a dessertspoonful of marjoram and thyme blended. [ Wyvern.~\ Cover the bottom of a large dish with this marinade, and turn and baste the Hare in it several times during the •day. Take the Hare out of the marinade, wipe it dry, line the whole of its inside with thin slices of fat bacon. Fill the ■cavity with herb stuffing (see page 202). If liked, the kidneys and heart of the Hare can be minced and fried in bacon fat with an ounce of onion, then left to get cold, pounded to a paste, and mixed with the stuffing. Whether the whole Hare, or only the rable, or saddle, is used, the lining and the stuffing should always be the same. In trussing a Hare either skewers or a trussing-needle and string can be used, but u 2HARES AND RABBITS 292 skewers are the least troublesome both in putting them in at first and in taking them out just before the Hare is served. Cut the sinews under the hind legs of the Hare, and draw the legs forward towards the head. . Run a skewer through one hind leg, through the body, and then through the other hind leg. Cut the sinews of the fore legs, bend them back towards the hind legs, and run another skewer through in the same way. Many cooks use one skewer for both fore and hind legs, but this gives the body of the Hare a tight, arched appearance, which is ugly, and' inconvenient to the carver. Press the head of the Hare a little back, and run a third skewer into the mouth, down ah the back of the neck, and into the body between the shoulders. Hares are apt to get dry in cooking, and it is important to cover the whole back with thick slices of fat bacon tied on with tape in three or four places. Then wrap the whole Hare in a well-buttered paper, and roast it before a brisk fire for twenty-five minutes, basting it constantly with melted butter. Some cooks add a little vinegar and water to the melted butter. When the Hare is nearly done,, take away the bacon and dredge the back lightly with flour. Let the skin brown and form crisp blisters, then carefully draw out the skewers and serve. The sauce for Roast Hare is made of the liver and the marinade in which the Hare steeped. For this, melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, fry in it a minced shallot till it just colours, then over a low fire add the liver of the Hare cut in dice, shaking the pan to prevent burning. Have ready a pint of good strong bi’oth, add a little of it to the pieces of liver, stir well, pour in the' rest of the broth, and simmer till the liver is thoroughly cooked. Strain the broth, and pour into it through a strainer the marinade of the Hare. Put it into a saucepan on the fire, let it boil up, skim carefully, and set the broth and marinade to keep hot in the bain-marie. Pound the liver and shallot to a paste, and pass it through a sieve. Take the saucepan off the fire, thicken with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, add the pounded liver and shallot, mix well, put the sauce to get hot, and serve in a sauce-boat. Currant Jelly should be handed also. All this may seem a great deal of trouble to take for such a2 93 HARES AND RABBITS common thing as a Roast Hare, but it cannot be too often repeated that nothing, and perhaps especially in cooking, can ever be well done without taking trouble. Leverets are roasted like Hares, only, being young, they require less time. Allow twenty minutes, lard the Leveret, and cover it with buttered paper. Hares can be had all the year round; Leverets from the end of April till the end of July. Jug’g’ed Hare.—{Family Recipe.)—Skin and clean a Hare, wipe it, and cut it in pieces. Dredge the pieces with flour, and fry them a nice brown in butter, seasoning with a little pepper and salt, and a little cayenne. Make a pint and a half of gravy from a pound and a half of gravy beef. Put the pieces of Hare into a jar, add a small onion stuck with four or five cloves, a lemon peeled and cut up, and then pour in the gravy. Cover the jar closely by putting a paste over it to keep in the steam. Put the jar into a deep stewpan of cold water, set it to boil, and let it simmer for four hours. (If the Hare is young, three hours will be sufficient.) When done, take the Hare out of the jar, and shake it in a pan over the fire for a few minutes, adding a tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, two glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Add some fried forcemeat balls, and serve with currant jelly. Jugged Hare can be made of cooked Hare, but it is not nearly so good as when the Hare is fresh. Hashed Hare.—Cut the meat into neat pieces, and make a good broth of the bones and trimmings of the Hare, flavoured with currant jelly, lemon-juice, and a little port wine. Let the pieces of Hare marinade in this for at least three hours. Lastly, strain, thicken the broth, put in the meat, warm up all together, and serve garnished with preserved cherries. \Wyvern.~\ RABBITS. Rabbits, if to be roasted, are trussed and stuffed like a Hare. If to be boiled, the head is turned along the side of the Rabbit and skewered there. Allow from three-quarters of an hour to an hour for roasting a Rabbit, and baste it constantly. For boiling proceed very gently, and boil for from half an hour294 RABBITS to an hour. It is always well to cook bacon with a Rabbit, for Rabbits have no fat of their own and are apt to become both tough and dry. For Rabbit and Onions see page 220. Rabbit with Mushroom Sauce.—Take the meat off the back of a Rabbit in two long fillets, and divide each, so as to make four pieces. Take off the legs and shoulders of the Rabbit, and simmer them for two hours. Then reduce the stock to a quarter of a pint. Lay a piece of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, and put upon it the pieces of Rabbit, adding a sliced onion and a bunch of herbs. Cover the whole with bacon, pour the stock in, and simmer gently for one hour.. For the sauce : Wipe and peel half a pound of young mush- rooms, mince them and their stalks, and put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter beaten to a cream. Simmer gently over a low fire for ten minutes, stirring all the while. Mix a roux in a little of the stock, simmer gently for another quarter of an hour. Pass the sauce through a strainer, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, warm the sauce and pour it over the pieces of rabbit when you take them out of the pan. Broiled Rabbit, American Fashion.—Open the Rabbit out flat, laying a plate upon it to keep it so, and steep in salted water for half an hour, having taken off the head. Cut the backbone across in eight or ten places, and then grill the Rabbit on a well-buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Baste continually, and turn the Rabbit often, so that it may be cooked thoroughly. When the Rabbit' is quite brown and tender rub it well with mustard, pepper, and salt, and send it to table flat. Rabbits, if young, can be cooked in several of the ways recommended for chicken. They are good done au riz, or they can be made into a blanquette, and, if carefully treated, Rabbits make a good curry. Old Rabbits should go into the stock-pot without any other attempt at cooking them. Of course Rabbits, although coming under the Ground Game Act, and therefore in season all the year round, are not, strictly speaking, Game. Still they naturally follow Hares in cookery- books, and cannot well be placed elsewhere.GIBELOTTE 295 Gibelotte.—Some -writers of cookery books imagine tbat Gibelotte is the French word for Giblets. The word has nothing to do with Giblets, but is the name for an excellent ragout of Rabbit, peculiar to France. Wyvern’s way of making it cannot be improved upon. Cut up the Rabbit for stewing, and put the pieces in a simple marinade composed of two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, four of red wine vinegar, an ounce of finely-chopped onion, twelve peppercorns, and six sprigs of parsley. Keep this in a cold place for twelve hours. When the time comes for cooking the Gibelotte, take a quarter of a pound of leanish bacon, cut it into dice, and fry them with half an ounce of butter in a stewpan till coloured. Now take out the bacon, and put in the pieces of Rabbit, let them fry in the butter and bacon fat for six minutes. Then return the bits of bacon, dredge an ounce of flour over the Rabbit, let this brown, and then cover the pieces with broth and a gill of Marsala. Season with pepper and salt, add a bouquet of sweet herbs, and bring to the boil for three minutes. Then add a clove of garlic (for English palates a shallot), and two dozen button onions. Simmer steadily till the Rabbit is cooked. Serve it neatly arranged on a dish with the onions round it. If mushrooms can be got, put a dozen buttons into the stew when the simmering commences. (This is a regular French dish.) Noisettes of Rabbit with Celery.—Take the flesh off the bones, and put it aside. Break up the bones, and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of onion, three ounces each of carrots, turnips, and leeks, a muslin bag containing a dessertspoonful of dried herbs, one ounce of celery, one of parsley, and seasoning of salt and mignonette pepper. Pour in sufficient cold water to cover well. Put the pan over a low fire, boil up, skim, and simmer for two hours. Strain off the broth, rinse out the stewpan, put the broth back into it, and bring it to the boil. Now put in the Rabbit cut into neat pieces, and three heads of young celery cut in half lengthwise; cover the pan, and simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter. By this time the Rabbit and celery should be done. Strain off the broth, arrange the Rabbit and celery on a hot dish and cover them up296 RABBITS whilst you rapidly thicken the broth in a stewpan with a roux ready to receive it made of an ounce of butter and the same of flour. Bring to the boil, skim, stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and pour the sauce through a strainer over the Rabbit and celery. Garnish with rolls of fried bacon. The broth should be made the day before the dish is wanted. For the rolls of bacon, lay them after rolling in a small baking-tin, and put that into the oven. Watch, and when nicely cooked, take the tin out, and arrange the crisp rolls of bacon as garnish. [ Wyvern.]297 CHAPTER IX. GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. Vegetables should certainly be clean, but all needless washing should be avoided. If vegetables are squeezed to get the wet out of them after a necessary washing they will be bruised and the best of their juices will be lost. They will drain themselves perfectly if placed in a colander, or on a sieve, by the fire. All fresh vegetables must be put on in really boiling salted water. The proportion of salt is half an ounce (a table- spoonful) of salt to a gallon of water. Root vegetables must be boiled with the lid of the pan on. Green vegetables—that is, all those which consist of seeds (like peas), pods (like French beans), leaves (like spinach), and stalks (like asparagus),—must be boiled with the lid of the pan off, and in a roomy pan which is not tinned. This will preserve the colour if plenty of water is used, as the steam can escape freely. The old-fashioned plan of boiling a bit of soda in the water in order to preserve the colour of the vegetables should never be followed. It does preserve the colour, but it injures the flavour of the vegetable and makes it unwholesome. When vegetables are done they should be drained at once. If they are left to soak they are spoilt. In boiling Cabbage put into the water a piece of breadcrumb tied up in a fine white rag. After a quarter of an hour’s boiling take it out and burn it instantly. The bread will have absorbed much of the disagreeable smell proceeding from the298 RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES Cabbage. Plenty of water is especially necessary in boiling all sorts of Cabbage, including Brussels Sprouts, for it reduces tbe smell. The water in which Cabbage has been boiled must be, whilst still hot, very carefully put down the sink on account of the smell. Even if a little water boils over when the Cabbage is cooking there is sure to be a nauseous smell over the whole house. (See Sculleiy, page 23.) The water in which Potatoes have been boiled must also be thrown away. It is poisonous, and only useful to kill green-fly on rose trees. But the water in which peas, beans, carrots, etc., have been boiled is a weak stock, the eau de cuisson of French kitchens, and should be carefully kept for use. In making melted butter it is infinitely better to use this stock than milk-and-water. Some vegetables are apt to have a bitter taste when boiled. This can be prevented by changing the water, being very careful to fill up the pan at once with absolutely boiling water from a kettle. Potatoes, Turnips, and Carrots should be well scrubbed with a brush, and thoroughly rinsed in clean water. The rind of Turnips is very hard and woody, and they must therefore be pared thickly. Carrots are the only roots in which the inside is harder than the outside. The red outside should be scraped off, or the whole Carrot may be thinly sliced. Seakale and Celery must be carefully washed, as owing to them having been earthed up to blanch them there is often dirt between the stalks. Onions must never be washed. A slice should be cut off the top and bottom of the Onion, and some of the outer coats peeled off. If too many coats are removed the Onion loses much of its wholesome qualities as well as its flavour. The coats should be put into the stock-pot, for although they are tough they have quite as much goodness and flavour as the inside of the Onion. Onions, when not to be used for flavouring only, should, like celery and all strong-tasted vegetables, be blanched—that is, they are put into boiling water for five minutes. In digging up as well as in washing Beetroot, great careRULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 299 must be taken not to break the little roots or the skin, or the red juice and colour will be lost. Cauliflowers and Cabbages must be soaked in cold salted water in which a tablespoonful of vinegar has been put. This will make any slugs or caterpillars wriggle out of their hiding- places within the vegetables. The end of the stalk of a Cauliflower should be cut across. This will ensure the proper cooking of the stalk. A Cauliflower should be boiled head downwards in the saucepan small enough to keep it in position. This prevents the white part of the Cauliflower from getting dirtied by the scum which rises to the surface of the pan. Some people think that a very little sugar (one teaspoonful to a gallon of water) brings out the flavour of the Cauliflower. If Spinach is not quite young the stalks and mid-ribs of the leaves must be removed before they are cooked. If this is not done the Spinach will be bitter. Parsley must never be used wet. If it is, the leaves will all stick together, and the flavour will be lost. Parsley has a strong taste, and a dark juice, and must be carefully prepared. Many dishes are spoilt by the addition of ill-cooked parsley. Parsley should be first blanched in really boiling water, and then carefully dried by wringing it in a cloth. When the parsley is quite dry, the leaves must be picked from the stalks (the stalks are not used) and cut across closely. For sauces they should then be minced as finely as possible; parsley cannot be minced too finely. The minced leaves must be gathered into the corner of a cloth, and rubbed and rinsed in water, till the water becomes green. The parsley must again be carefully dried before using. It should look like tiny bright green specks. The beautiful smooth skin of Tomatoes is apt to disagree with people, and it is therefore generally advisable to remove it. This is easily done by putting the Tomatoes in a wire basket and plunging them for a few seconds in boiling water. Then put them at once into quite cold water, and they will peel easily. Of course this is not necessai’y when the Tomatoes are rubbed through a sieve. Mushrooms out of the fields have a far more delicate flavour than those grown in mushroom-houses and cellai’s. MushroomsRULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 300 ought never to be washed. They should be wiped, and a tap on the top of each will knock the grit out of the gills. The skin can be easily peeled off. Mushrooms are best when cooked as simply as possible, and as they contain a great deal of moisture no water should be used in cooking them. Their flavour is best preserved by cooking them in their own juice. Mushrooms should be quite fresh and firm, with pink gills. Some cooks endeavour to keep them white by steeping them in lemon-juice, but although the colour may be preserved by this method the flavour is lost. It is very important that vegetables should be eaten when young. Country-house gardeners are apt to sacrifice quality to quantity and flavour to size. They are inclined, too, to overlook the commoner vegetables, so that Radishes resemble ram’s horns in size and texture, Turnips are like blocks of wood, and Lettuces run to seed. Thus the Vegetables are wasted, and the ground in which they grow is wasted too. To those who have not gardens, I would say, Do not be deluded by size into buying old vegetables. It is sheer waste of money to buy them, and it is waste of time and fuel to cook them. Yegetables are becoming a more and more important part of English cookery, and English Vegetables are the finest in the world. Vegetables were indeed extensively used in England up to the middle of the eighteenth century, but after that time little attention seems to have been paid to them or to the method of cooking them. Monsieur Louis Simond, who visited England in 1810, ridicules the enormous number of dishes of meat served with every course of a dinner, and adds “Vegetables are “ exhibited in all the simplicity of nature, like hay to horses, “only a little boiled instead of dried.” In the cookery books published even as late as 1861, vegetables are hardly mentioned at all. The cook never troubled herself about them, and they were left to the tender mercies of the kitchenmaid, or even to the scullerymaid. Now, however, the valuable qualities of our excellent English Vegetables are again appreciated, and pains are taken to cook them as well as to grow them. If butter is needed in cooking vegetables only “ the best butter ” should be used. The delicate flavour of vegetables is entirely lost if inferior butter, or even too much of the best,RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 301 is used. Salt should be added with a very sparing- hand in the kitchen, for, once in, it can never be got out of the vege- table, and those who like more salt can please their taste from the salt-cellars on the dinner table. When cheese is used it generally contains sufficient salt for the vegetable, without adding more. In these days of excellent Creameries and Butter Dairies, and with the aid of the Parcel Post, any family can be supplied with good butter at a reasonable price. Good butter is so essential for good cookery, and especially for vegetable cookery, that where expense has to be considered it is better to economise in anything rather than in butter. The sickening compound called Kitchen Butter, but which is really adulterated fat, is, we hope, a thing of the past. But, in vegetable cookery, even the best butter must be most carefully used. Unless the vegetables are actually fried in butter, the proper quantity of cold butter should he stirred into the dish just before serving, so as to avoid all danger of greasiness. Our native vegetables should depend on their own natural flavour, escaping both the drowning and soaking in water of English cooks, and the lavish additions of butter and various flavourings of foreign chefs. Cold cooked vegetables should be set aside, as they may be served again in various ways. Potatoes can he sliced as salad, or mashed up with other vegetables as a puree. Any remains of vegetables can be mixed with melted butter, dusted with cheese, and baked; or used as a puree with buttered eggs; or warmed up in the bain-marie, mixed with white sauce, and served as a macedoine. Several of the vegetables mentioned in these chapters are, properly speaking, fruits, such as Chestnuts, Olives, Capsi- cums, and even Aubergines, Marrows, Cucumbers, and Tomatoes. But as recipes are given for cooking them as vegetables I have thought it best to make no distinction.302 POTATOES. The Potato, the King of Vegetables, deserves a separate section. The Potato is capricious in its habits, and varies according to the weather it has either enjoyed or suffered from. A crop of the self-same Potato may be floury in one season, and waxy and heavy in the next. The cook is often unjustly blamed for the condition of the Potato, but no skill can change a waxy Potato into a floury one. A wise cook will soon see if the Potatoes sent in are floury or waxy, and will vary her method of cooking accordingly. It cannot be too strongly impressed upon the cook that Potatoes must he cooked in haste and eaten at once. Very slow cooking, preceded by long soaking, and followed by delay in serving, will spoil the finest Potatoes ever sent to table. But, on the other hand, if Potatoes are cooked “ at a gallop ” the outside will be a tasteless jelly and the inside an uneatable stone. If the Potatoes are to be served in a covered vegetable dish, they should not be put into it till the very last moment, for the steam which they emit cannot escape, and has to be absorbed by the Potatoes them- selves. Potatoes, whether boiled or steamed, ought never to be peeled. If they are very old the eyes and the outer skin must be removed, but as a rule the knife should never touch an uncooked Potato. If required, the skins can be removed in the kitchen, but the Potatoes are much better served “ in their jackets,” and sent up on a hot napkin in a wooden bowl. In boiling Potatoes choose those which are as nearly as possible of one size, so that they may cook evenly. Wash them in cold water and brush them. Put them in a saucepan on the fire with enough cold water to cover them, and salt in the propor- tion of half an ounce to a gallon of water. After half an hour’s steady cooking, take the Potatoes out, drain all the water out of the pan, and put the Potatoes back into it. Cover the hot saucepan with a wet cloth, put it at the side of the fire, and let the Potatoes evaporate under the cloth for about ten minutes.POTATOES 3°3 In this way they will keep hot and dry. Some cooks drain off half the water and replace it with more cold water when the Potatoes are about half done; others check the boiling by a dash of cold water every now and then. The Potatoes should be taken out of the water as soon as the skins begin to crack. When Potatoes are likely to be watery it is a good plan to score the tough skins lengthwise and all round, as this lets out the moisture. In steaming Potatoes (and steaming is by far the best method of cooking most vegetables), they should first lie in cold water for five minutes. Then brush them and wipe them dry. Put the Potatoes in the steamer over really boiling water, and let them steam till done. The time will vary from twenty to forty minutes according to the size of the Potatoes, but they should be tried with a skewer. If the skewer goes through them quite easily they are done. New Potatoes should be cooked as soon as possible after they are dug up. Brush them, rub them with a coarse cloth, and either boil or steam them. New Potatoes, unlike old ones, should, if boiled, be put on in boiling water, and boiled for fifteen minutes. Then drain off the water and proceed as for old Potatoes. It is both barbarous and wasteful to peel New Potatoes before they are cooked, and even if the skins are removed after cooking the Potatoes cool and spoil before they can be served. Baked Potatoes.—No Potato cooked at home is equal to one bought at a London Potato stall, and carried off surrep- titiously in a muff. The secret of the salesman is that he spares neither time or patience in baking his Potatoes. To imitate his success choose large Potatoes ; those sold as “ Melters ” are the best. Wash them as little as possible. Put them in their jackets into a Dutch oven, and leave them there for two hours, turning them now and then. When the jacket just opens to show the floury waistcoat the Potato is done, and it must be served at once. Some “ Melters ” only need an hour and a half in the Dutch oven, but they must be watched, turned, and tried with a skewer. In those restaurants which pride themselves on their Baked Potatoes, the waiter contrives by one dexterous squeeze of his napkin to turn out the whitest of Baked Potatoes3°4 POTATOES upon the hottest of plates. Pepper, salt, and pats of fresh butter should be handed with Baked Potatoes. Baked Potatoes must be baked only. It is an absurdity to boil them first and then to bake them. The best “ Melters ” are Regents, Magnum Bonums, and Saxons. Broiled Potatoes.—When Potatoes are thoroughly boiled, take off the skins, lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and turn them till they are thoroughly brown all over. Mashed Potatoes.—It is not difficult to mash Potatoes, but it is seldom indeed that they are properly done. So many nice dishes can be made from good Mashed Potatoes that it is important to cook them carefully. Waxy Potatoes never can be good when mashed, so that floury mealy Potatoes must be used. And they must be dry when they are mashed. Another secret is that the milk or stock used in mashing must be boiling hot. Cold milk added to the hot dry Potatoes makes them heavy. The Potatoes should be boiled in their skins, and they must not be allowed to boil till they crumble. When the Potatoes are done take them out of the saucepan, peel off the skins, drain off every drop of water, and put the Potatoes back into the hot dry saucepan, allowing half an ounce of butter to every three Potatoes of ordinary size. Break the Potatoes up with a two-pronged steel fork, add pepper and salt, and moisten them with a tablespoonful of boiling milk to every three Potatoes. Mash them with a large plated fork, being most careful to mash them towards you. This ensures their being light, but if you press the Potatoes down into the saucepan from you they will certainly be heavy. When they have been thoroughly mashed the Potatoes ought to be quite white. They should then be set for a moment over the fire to get thoroughly hot. Some people brown the Potatoes by setting them in the oven for a minute, but this is apt to harden them, and they will not be so light. Serve straight from the fire in a very hot uncovered dish. French Mashed Potatoes.—The French method is to make a puree of the Potatoes, and not to mash them at all. They are sent up like very thick custard, not stiff like English mashed Potatoes. When the Potatoes are done, take them out of the saucepan, drain it quite dry, and rub it all over with aFRENCH MASHED POTATOES 3°5 shallot. (French people rub the saucepan lightly with garlic.) Put the Potatoes back, and break them up, adding an ounce of butter to every three. Work the Potatoes well with a wooden spoon, add salt and instead of milk moisten them with two tablespoonfuls of boiling stock. When well mashed pass the Potatoes through the sieve, and add a dust of pepper. French cooks also add a pinch or two of nutmeg. American Potato Puff.—Take one breakfastcupful of cold mashed Potato, and stir into it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating to a white cream before adding anything else. Then put in two eggs whipped very light, a little salt, and a teacupful of milk or cream. Beat all thoroughly, pour into a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. If properly mixed this dish comes out of the oven very light and puffy. It should be baked in a fire-proof dish and served in the same. Cream Potatoes for Second Course.—Boil six large Potatoes in their skins, or steam them. Dry them, and let them get quite cold. Take off the skins and put the Potatoes into a basin. Chop them up with a knife, and work them about with two forks till they look like snow. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add salt, put in the Potatoes, pour half a pint of cream very gently over them, and let them get thoroughly hot. Serve in a very hot dish. The Potatoes should look like wax. Savoury Potatoes.—Take six Potatoes with thoroughly sound skins, wash and brush them. Bake them till the inside is tender, but the skins not blistered. Cut off a slice from one end of each Potato, and scoop out the inside. Mash this till quite smooth with cream or butter, add pepper and salt, and just a dust of Parmesan cheese. Lastly, stir in one whole egg well beaten, and warm all in a saucepan. Fill the Potato skins "v •with the mixture, and put them in the oven for a minute or two. The mixture ought to rise like a cap above the Potato skins. Serve on a napkin in an uncovered dish. Irish Potato Cakes.—Take one pound of cold boiled Potatoes, and crumble or mash them, adding a little salt. Roll the Potatoes out with just enough flour to prevent them from x3°6 POTATOES sticking to tlie pastry-board. Then roll them very thin, cut into rounds, and bake the cakes either on a hot dish in the oven or over the fire in a pan set on the hot plate. They require bottom heat, like Scotch barley-meal Scones. Scotch Potato Fritters.—Parboil six large Potatoes, cut them in slices the thickness of a florin. Beat up two eggs with one tablespoonful of breadcrumbs and one tablespoonful of lean ham grated. Coat each slice of Potato with this mixture, and fry them. If possible, fry them in oil. Potato Snow.—Choose the whitest Potatoes, free from spots. Put them on to boil in cold water with plenty of salt. When the skins begin to crack take out the Potatoes and put them into a clean, hot stewpan by the fire till they are quite dry and falling to pieces. Rub them with a wooden spoon through a wire sieve into the hot, uncovered dish in which the Potato Snow is to be served, and do not touch them again. American Stewed Potatoes.—Pare the Potatoes, cut them in thin slices, and stew them in just enough water to cover them. When they are quite tender, take the slices out. Drain off all the water from the stewpan, and add a teacupful of milk or cream. Boil for about five minutes, stirring con- stantly. Add an ounce and a half of butter -well rolled in flour, a little salt, a dessertspoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a dust of pepper. Boil up once, and turn all into a very hot covered dish. Fried Potato Balls with Herbs.—Prepare the Potatoes as for Potato Snow. When they are quite dry remove the skins, and mash the Potatoes with a tablespoonful of milk and half an ounce of butter to every pound. Pound well together when cold, add a dessertspoonful of minced thyme, parsley, and, if liked, shallot. (The herbs must not be more than one dessertspoonful altogether.) Work in the yolks of two eggs, so as to make the mixture a stiff paste. With two Avooden spoons make the Potato mixture into balls the size of a small egg. Roll each ball in breadcrumbs, dip each in either warm butter or into half an ounce of warm butter into which one whole beaten egg has been mixed, and again roll each ball well in breadcrumbs. Fiy the balls in boiling fat, shaking them gently. In about a minute theyFRIED POTATO BALLS WITH HERBS 3°7 onglit to become a golden colour, and then they are done. Some cooks flour their hands instead of using wooden spoons, hut a little practice will enable them to use the spoons. It is needless to say that the human hand should he used as little as possible in touching food. Baked Potato Balls.—Prepare the Potatoes as above. When the Potatoes are formed into balls put them at once on a baking-tin' in the oven, baste them with gravy, and serve when perfectly brown. The Potato Balls ought to be baked in twenty minutes. If they are too long in the oven they get stiff and tasteless. Potato Quenelles.—Boil two large Potatoes, dry them, remove the skins, and nib them through a sieve. Cut a thin round of white bread, take off the crust, toast the bread, and butter it plentifully on both sides ; set it before the fire to get crisp. Or fry the bread thoroughly. Cut the bread into small dice, add it with all its butter to the Potatoes. Beat up two whole eggs, add a pinch of minced parsley, and mix all well together. Form the mixture into almond shapes, or small balls, and poach them for a quarter of an hour in a pint of water with a little salt in it. They can be added to soup just before serving, or may be sent up with a well-flavoured white sauce. A little grated ham is a great improvement to Potato Quenelles. Potatoes in France and Belgium are not carefully cultivated. The finest sorts are not grown, and the plain English methods of cooking Potatoes are unknown, not being suited to inferior varieties. But we owe to the inferiority of foreign Potatoes the excellent methods of cooking them in small quantities and in different ways which are now so much appreciated in English kitchens. Fried Potatoes.—Wash and peel the Potatoes, and cut them in equal slices one-sixth of an inch thick. Melt plenty of clarified beef suet in the frying-pan, and when it is very hot test it with a bit of bread. If the fat fizzes freely and does not smoke put in the Potatoes and fry them for six minutes. The fat must completely cover them, and the slices must be turned and moved about continually, so as to prevent them from sticking together. When the Potatoes are soft take them out3°8 POTATOES with a skimmer, find let them drain on a wire sieve. Let the fat boil up and put the Potatoes back in it. Fry them for three or four minutes longer. Now drain them on blotting-paper before the fire. When dry sprinkle a little salt over them and serve. The second frying causes the slices of Potato to swell as if they were hollow, and secures their being cooked all through. The Potatoes must be a rich golden colour. If the fat has been too hot—that is, smoking—they will be brown. Potato Chips.—In order to have Potato Chips in perfec- tion great attention must be paid to five points. 1. The slices must be of exactly equal thickness, not one thick and the next thin. 2. They must be carefully drained from the water. 3. Thei’e must be plenty of fat to fry them in. 4. The fat must not be too hot, although it must be hot enough. 5. The chips must be perfectly drained from the fat. Clarified beef suet is much the best frying medium for Potatoes. Wash and peel the Potatoes and slice them exactly one- sixteenth of an inch thick. Put them for fifteen minutes into a basin of cold water. Drain off the water, and spread the Potatoes on a cloth to get quite dry. Wipe them, and lay ready a sheet of clean blotting-paper. Melt plenty of clarified beef suet in the frying-pan, for the Potato slices must be com- pletely covered. Be most cai'eful in testing the heat of the fat with a sippet of bread. If the fat fizzes freely and does not smoke drop in the Potato slices at once, and let them, so to speak, boil in it. Do not leave them, but keep turning and moving them about. The moment the Potatoes are a l’ich golden colour lift them out, and let them drain for a minute or two on the blotting-paper. When dry seiwe in a very hot dish (metal if possible), sprinkling them with a little salt. Nothing is better than crisp golden Potato Chips, and few things are more distasteful than the dark, leathery appearance which Chips too often present when badly cooked. Potato Ribbons.—Cut thin ribbons from the Potatoes as the Potato Chips were cut, and cook them exactly the same. When the Ribbons are cut, twist them into knots before you put them in cold water. The object of putting sliced Potatoes into cold water is to get rid of the starch which naturally belongs to them. And the reason of the very careful drainingPOTATO RIBBONS 3°9 afterwards is that nothing which is in the least damp can ever he made crisp by frying. Potatoes a la Duchesse.—To one pound of mashed Potatoes add an ounce and a half of butter, the yolks of two eggs, one dessei’tspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and one tablespoonful of milk. Work well through the sieve, and form the mixture into flat ovals two and a quarter inches long, one inch and a half wide, and one inch thick. Fry the ovals gently in butter. Or dust them over with flour and brown them in the oven on a buttered tin. [ Wyvern.] Potatoes a la G.C.—Boil a mild onion very soft and weigh the pulp. Beat it up when hot with four times its weight of mashed Potatoes. Add an ounce and a half of butter, pepper, salt, the yolks of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of milk. Pass the mixture through the sieve, form it into oval balls with two wooden spoons, and cook as for Potatoes a la Duchesse. Potatoes a la Marechale.—Slice the Potatoes in very thin equal slices, after washing and paring. Stew them in butter over a very low fire till tender. Then arrange the Potatoes in layers in a fire-proof baking dish. Smooth each layer with melted butter, and grate plenty of Parmesan cheese between each layer. Bake for half an hour in a moderate •oven, and of course serve in the dish the Potatoes are baked in. Potato Marbles or Boulettes.—Mash eight fairly-sized Potatoes, pass through the sieve, work in the yolks of three eggs. Season with a dessertspoonful of minced parsley mixed with marjoram; moisten with enough cream or milk to bring the mixture to the consistency of thick paste. Add salt, pepper, and (if liked) a dust of nutmeg. Lastly, add the whites of two of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. The mix- ture should be stiff enough not to spread out when dropped from a spoon. Form it into balls the size of a playing marble. Prepare a bath of boiling fat, and then fry the marbles by passing the little balls one after the other into the fat. As each little marble reaches the fat it will expand, and as soon as it is a rich golden yellow it is done. [Wyvern.'] Potato Rollers, or Flutes au Parmesan.—These can be made from cold mashed Potatoes. Work them again through3io POTATOES tlie sieve, adding the yolks of two eggs, and flavouring with a dessertspoonful of herbs. Add a tablespoonful of"stock. Roll out on a pastry board, and powder with plenty of grated Parmesan. Make as many thin rolls as you can three and a half inches long, and a little thicker than a pencil. Dip them in egg, and then breadcrumb with half crumbs and half Parmesan. Roll well in the cheese and crumbs and frv a golden brown. This concludes the simple methods of cooking floury Potatoes. It is important to recollect that waxy Potatoes will never cook as floury ones will. Also that unless plenty of fat is allowed, and unless that fat is carefully heated to the proper point, Fried Potatoes, in whatever form they may be pi’esented, will never be fit to eat. Waxy Potatoes are excellent, cooked in any way that suits them. As New Potatoes only can they be plainly boiled. After that period they must be dressed in different ways. One of these is as Potatoes Sautes.—After boiling the Potatoes cut them in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, and be careful that the slices are all the same size. Toss them in melted butter in the saute- pan over a moderate fire, and be careful to shake and toss them thoroughly. Let them colour nicely, pour the brown butter from the pan over them, sprinkle with minced parsley, dust with pepper, and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Proceed exactly as for Potatoes Sautes, and let the slices of Potato get cold. Melt enough butter to cover the bottom of a stewpan, put the Potatoes in, three-parts cover them with broth, and simmer till the liquid is nearly reduced. Take the pan off the fire, put the Potatoes in a hot dish, add a few little pieces of butter, a few drops of lemon-juice, rather more than a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and serve. Or use maitre d’hotel sauce instead of the broth. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise.—Cold cooked Potatoes may be used. Cut them in slices the thickness of lialf-a-crown. Put three ounces of butter in a frying-pan, slice one mild onion finely and fry it till it just begins to brown. Then put in the slices of Potato with a wineglassful of broth. Toss all wellPOTATOES A LA LYONNAISE 3” over the fire till they become thoroughly mixed and till the Potatoes are a golden yellow. Dust with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Potatoes a l’Americaine.—Cut up four good-sized boiled Potatoes into thick slices. Flavour half a pint of milk with pepper and salt (onion and spice if liked) as for bread sauce Strain and thicken it as for melted butter with butter and flour. Place your slices of Potato in this sauce, and heat them up to boiling-point. Take the saucepan off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg, add a full tablespoonful of minced parsley with a pat of butter the size of a shilling, and serve. [Wyvern.~\ Potato Souffles Cordon Rouge.—Boil and peel six small Potatoes, rub them through a wire sieve into a basin, moisten- ing them with a little cream or milk. Beat up two ounces of butter, add it to the Potatoes, seasoning with salt and pepper. Boil half a pint of milk in a stewpan, add the Potatoes, stir well over the fire to a smooth paste, and bind with two raw eggs well beaten. Allow it to cool. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, mix the whites to snow, and stir gently into the mix- ture together with the yolks and a handful of grated cheese. Butter some small tartlet moulds, line the inside with soft bread- crumbs, which must serve instead of a crust. Fill these with the mixture, bake in a quick oven to a light brown colour, turn out quickly, dust with finely-grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. Curried Potatoes.—This is a useful way of using cold boiled Potatoes. Cut them up, fry a sliced onion in a little butter in a frying-pan. Add the Potatoes with a little salt, dust them with cayenne or Nepaul pepper, moisten with a little stock and the juice of half a lemon. Shake the pan well over the fire, and let it stew for fifteen minutes. Serve as hot as possible. German Potato Puffer.—(Countess Munster.)—Take the largest Potatoes you can get, skin them, wash, and grate them, and press them in a cloth as dry as you can. To a heaped plateful of the grated Potato add a tablespoonful of flour, six yolks of eggs, some salt, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir in lightly the whipped whites of the six eggs. Fry from this mixture thin pancakes in clarified suet or butter. ThisPOTATOES 312 is a favourite clisli in Germany, where at Puffer 'parties these Potato Pancakes are eaten hot in succession. Potato Drops.— {Family Recipe.)—Take six large Potatoes, boil, peel, and bruise them in a mortar with four ounces of butter and one whole egg. Mix them well, and fry them in spoonfuls. Drain each Potato Drop well, and serve very hot. Favourite Potatoes.—{Family Recipe.)—Roust large Potatoes, cut them in half lengthwise. Mash the Potato, and put it back in the skins. Brown for a minute or two in the oven. If the inside of the Potato is scooped out from the top, then mashed and put back, it is likely to be heavy. This is prevented by cutting the Potatoes lengthwise. Broiled Potatoes a la Maire.—A Frenchman called Maire had a celebrated restaurant in Paris some thirty years ago, at which one of the special dishes was fillet of beef served with Potatoes a la Maire. For these choose long-shaped Potatoes and boil them. Put some cream in a saucepan over the fire, regulating the quantity by the number of Potatoes, let it reduce to half, stirring it the whole time. Peel the Potatoes, slice them in round slices, put them into the boiling cream, and let it simmer, stirring gently with a wooden spoon to prevent it from burning. Season with salt and pepper; Marne added grated nutmeg. Just before serving add a few little bits of butter, and in doing so shake the stewpan well, so as to blend the Potatoes, butter, and cream well together. Stir carefully, so as not to break the slices. Maire piided himself on the appearance of the sliced Potatoes when finished. Potato Pancakes.—Grate six large Potatoes which have been peeled, not cooked. Season with salt and pepper, moisten with a teacupful of milk, and mix the whole with three raw yolks of eggs, an ounce of butter, and a breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs. Then add four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and enough flour to make a smooth batter. Fry in an omelette- pan with rather more butter than is used for sweet pancakes. When cooked on both sides dust the Potato Pancakes with cheese, fold them, and garnish with fried Parsley. Savoury Potatoes aux Herbes.—These are cooked like the Savoury Potatoes already given, only that a stuffing of breadcrumbs, minced thyme, and either minced chives orSAVOURY POTATOES AUX HERBES 3i3 minced shallot is added to the mixture when the skins are filled. A teaspoonfnl for each Potato is sufficient. Potato Scallops.—Boil the Potatoes, peel them, drain them, rub through a wire sieve, and put them into a stewpan. Stir in half an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, two raw yolks of egg, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and season well with pepper, slightly with salt. Butter some fire- proof scallop shells, dust them with fine breadcrumbs, fill the shells with the Potato mixture, smoothing the top with a knife dipped in butter which has been melted, and strew the surface with grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven till the Potato mixture is a delicate brown. Potato Croquettes.—These should be cooked like Fried Potato Balls, only shaped like little sausages, and served with fried parsley. French Potatoes.—After practically boiling the Potatoes cut them into slices when cold, and put them into a saucepan. Cover them with milk and finish cooking them in this, adding fresh butter, minced parsley, pepper and salt. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'} Potato Tartlets.—This is another French recipe. Boil the Potatoes, peel them, and rub them through a sieve. When cold add two whole eggs, butter in the proportion of an ounce to every three Potatoes, and at least a dessertspoonful of Parmesan, with salt and pepper. Mix all well together, take pieces the size of an egg, flour them, forming them into the shape of tartlets, and fry quickly. Or the Potato mixture can be put whilst hot into small patty-pans which have been well-buttered. Let it get cold, turn the tartlets out, flour them, brush them over with beaten egg, dust them with fine crumbs, and fry at once. Serve very hot. It is worth observing that minced Mint, especially with new Potatoes, is better than Parsley. Mint abroad always tastes like peppermint, and some authorities consider this to be due to the dner soil. However this may be, Mint is but little used in France, Parsley or Chervil being substituted for it. Potato Balls.—{Family Recipe.}—Steam four large Pota- toes. Peel and dry them thoroughly. Mash them in a basin with two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, a dust of pepper, a3H POTATOES tablespoonful of cream, and the yolk of one egg. Put all in a mortar and pound it for five minutes. Then shape it into balls the size of a walnut, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in butter. Be careful to use butter only for frying them. The above quantities will make twelve balls the size of the little Tangerine oranges. Potatoes Browned.—{Family Recipe.)— Boil the Potatoes whilst the meat is roasting, and an hour before it is to be served take the skins off the Potatoes, flour them well, and put them under the meat. Let them stay there, turning them occasionally so that they may be equally browned on both sides. Let the dripping drain off before they are sent to table. Olive Potatoes.—These Potatoes are much used as a garnish, arranged in a chain round a dish of meat or fish. To make them, cut raw potatoes into pieces of a suitable size, and pare them round till they become the shape and size of an olive. Some cooks call these Turned Potatoes. Boil them as usual, but be very careful not to over-cook them, or to boil them too fast, or they will break. When arranged in a neat chain a little maitre d’hotel butter can be put over the Potatoes. Pllffed Potatoes.—’Peel some rather large Potatoes, and cut them into divisions like the segments of an orange. Dry them thoroughly in a clean cloth. Have ready a pan of boiling suet, put the Potatoes in the frying basket, plunge them in the suet, and just let them cook, shaking the pan with your other hand all the time. Be sure not to let the Potatoes colour. How lift out the frying-basket and let the Potatoes drain by the fire; a thick paper will do to drain them on. Let the suet boil up again, and let the Potatoes cook in it till they puff out. The moment they puff take them out, drain them, and serve at once. If the Potatoes have been allowed to colour in the least during the first cooking they will never puff out at all. Many of the Potatoes sold by greengrocers and stores are foreign ; they are not only inferior in quality to English Potatoes but are often injured by packing and travelling. Some soils in England too do not suit Potatoes at all.3i5 VEGETABLES—PART I. ARTICHOKES. Artichokes, especially the Globe Artichoke, “that Noble Thistle ” as it is called by John Evelyn, are among the best of English vegetables. Globe Artichokes must be carefully soaked in salt and water to get rid of insects. When the Artichokes are to be served quite plain, cut the stalks off close under the flower or head. Set the Artichokes head downwards in slightly-salted boiling water, and boil them till the leaves part easily from the choke, or core. This, if the Artichokes are young (as they should be for plain boiling), will be in about half an hour. Drain the Artichokes well, lay a napkin folded in three thicknesses on a hot dish, and serve them upon the napkin. Melted butter should be handed with Artichokes plainly boiled. Globe Artichokes can be dressed in various ways. They should be prepared before boiling. Wyvern's excellent method is as follows. Place the raw Artichoke bottom downwards on a board, and with a very sharp knife at once cut it straight down, dividing it in half. Then divide each half into two, so that you have four quarters. Pare out the choke from each quarter, as you would core an apple, and trim off the leaves, leaving about the eighth of an inch of them unsevered and adhering to the trimmed quarters. Be most careful to let each piece drop from your fingers the moment it is prepared, into a basin of cold water in which a tablespoonful of Orleans vinegar or the juice of a whole lemon has been put. If you do not attend to this at the moment, the pieces of Artichoke will turn black. When you have prepared as many pieces of Artichoke as you need for one dish throw them into boiling water with a, dessertspoonful of salt and the same of vinegar. In about fifteen minutes, when nearly done, lift the Artichokes out and drain them. Artichokes thus prepared are excellent as Beignets. For316 ARTICHOKES this dish fry the pieces, after dipping them in batter. Or cut them in thin slices and fry them in butter as Ohips. In each case the colour should be a golden brown. Or the Artichokes can be simmered in white or in brown sauce. Or they can be tossed in butter, served at once on a hot dish in the butter, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a dusting of parsley grated as finely as possible. These Artichoke quarters can be cooked in numerous other ways, but it seems a pity to spoil their natural flavour by the addition of onion, cheese, or mushrooms. Cream Of Globe Artichokes.—When the Artichokes are thoroughly boiled strip off the leaves and press out the eatable part of each leaf, remove the chokes from the bottoms, and pass through the tamis all the pulp you can get. Season with salt and pepper. Mix with cream, and steam the Artichokes in a mould veiy slowly for about twenty minutes. Turn out of the mould and serve. Put a puree of Artichoke round the mould. Artichoke-Bottoms.—Wyvern's method is again far the best for preparing Artichoke-Bottoms, or Fonds d'Artichauts. Cut the tops of the leaves horizontally, parallel with and close down to the top of the fond. Trim all leaves which may adhere to the fond quite closely all round, and pare off the stalk smoothly. Now plunge the Artichoke-Bottoms into boiling salt-and-water and blanch them. This will make it easy to scoop out the choke, which should be done with a good plated spoon. Artichoke-Bottoms are so good plainly served, the bottoms filled with a puree made from the edible part of the leaves ; or, when the bottoms are sent up cold, just masked with mayonnaise sauce, that some people think there has been “trop de zele shown in the numerous methods of cooking them. But many people prefer Fonds d’Artichauts a la Barig-oule.—Choose one fond for each person at table. Prepare the fonds as above, dust them with salt and pepper, and set them on a dish. Stir over the fire for five minutes a mixture composed of four ounces of finely minced bacon, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a quarter of an ounce of flour, a coffeecupful of broth, one tablespoonful of very finely-minced parsley, the same of finely-minced mush- rooms, and one dessertspoonful of finely-chopped and blanchedFONDS D’ARTICHAUTS A LA BARIGOULE 317 onion. When this mixture has been well stirred over the fire fill the Artichoke-Bottoms with it. Tie a slice of bacon, cut as thinly as possible, over each Artichoke-Bottom. Put the bottoms into a stewpan with a breakfastcupful of good broth. Put the stewpan into the oven, closely covered, and let the Ai'tichoke-Bottoms cook till quite tender. Try if they are tender at the end of twenty minutes. When tender serve at once in a hot dish. If any liquid remains in the stewpan strain it and pour it round, but not over, the Artichoke-Bottoms. Globe Artichokes Served in Shells.—Butter the shells and fill them with plain Artichoke puree, made thus: Boil the Artichokes ; when cold, strip them of their leaves, scraping off all the pulp which adheres to them with a silver dessert-knife. Then extract the “ chokes ” and add the “ bottoms ” of the Artichokes to the leaf pulp. Mash the whole together with a silver fork in a bowl, dust it with salt and pepper, mix a coffee- cupful of good veloute with it, and one well-beaten egg. Stir it well, and fill the shells. Dust over the surface a layer of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, sprinkle little bits of butter over the crumbs, bake till thoroughly hot, brown the surface with a hot iron, and serve on a napkin. [ Wyvern.'] Jerusalem Artichokes do equally well for this excellent second-course dish ; and the shells can, if liked, be replaced by pastry cases. Jerusalem Artichokes.—These, unlike the Globe Arti- chokes, are a species of Sunflower, and came originally from South America. The roots, and not the flowers, are eaten. The name is a curious perversion of the Spanish girar al sol, or turning to the sun, and the perversion is continued in the name Palestine which is given to the soup made from the so-called Jerusalem Artichokes. The French name for this vegetable, Topinambour, is much more accurate, for that is a corruption of the name of a tribe in the Brazils, from whence these Sun- flowers came. Jerusalem Artichokes are most useful, for they can be cooked in so many ways. They should be dug up as wanted, unless there is a hard frost, when of course they must be stored. Gardeners are too fond of planting the old roots year after year; it is far better to grow the Artichokes from fresh seed—say every three years.ARTICHOKES 3i8 Jerusalem Artichoke Chips.—Choose rather large tubers, peel and slice them thinly over a basin of well-salted water, and let the slices fall into the water to prevent their turning black. When wanted, drain them with a perforated slice, lay them on a cloth, dry well, and plunge them into very hot frying fat. Finish exactly like potato chips. The fat must not be too hot, or the chips will be too dark. [ Wyvern.~\ Jerusalem Artichokes Roasted.—Trim twelve Arti- chokes, and melt two ounces of butter in a fire-proof dish, adding salt and pepper. When the butter is melted put the Artichokes in the dish, and let them roast either in the oven or in the Dutch oven for half an hour. Baste them frequently with the butter and roast them quickly so that they become a rich brown. Serve in the dish in which the Artichokes were cooked. Jerusalem Artichokes Fried.—Cut the Artichokes in slices one-sixth of an inch thick. Fry them in butter till they are a golden brown. Drain them on white paper before the fire, and serve in a napkin, as hot as possible. The method of boiling Jerusalem Artichokes differs accord- ing to the age of the tubers. When quite young they must be put on in boiling water; when half grown the water should be only warm; and when the Artichokes are old they should be put on in cold water. In peeling them it is most important to drop each piece instantly into cold salt and water, or it will turn black. Jerusalem Artichokes Boiled.—Wash and peel the Artichokes, but it is wasteful to pare them into cones. Put them into a gallon of really boiling water, with two tablespoon- fuls of salt. The Artichokes will check the boiling of the water. Boil them for twenty minutes after boiling has recom- menced. Drain, and serve with melted butter. Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin .—Boil the Artichokes in milk and water, or add a little melted butter mixed with the well-beaten yolk of one egg, when they are tender. Season with pepper and salt. Mash with a fork, or pass the Artichokes through a tamis. Butter a shallow fire-proof dish, put the Artichokes in, sprinkle a good coating of finely-grated Parmesan or mild cheese over them, and bake in the oven till the top browns.JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE FRITTERS 319 “ Wyvern’s ” Jerusalem Artichoke Fritters.—Cut six large Artichokes, after they have been three-parts boiled, into long strips about a quarter of an inch thick. Dip the strips in batter, and fry them a golden tint. Cream of Jerusalem Artichokes.—This again is Wyverns recipe:— Take two pounds of the Artichokes boiled in milk, half a pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, pepper and salt. Mash the Artichokes, and pass them through the hair sieve, turn the egg and milk to a rich custard, whisk this well, add the white of one egg, and season with pepper and salt. Put the mixture into a well-buttered pudding-mould, and steam it for one hour. Or set the mould in ice, and turn it out, serving it cold with cold mayonnaise sauce in a boat. The sauces often recommended for the hot mould disguise the flavour of the Artichokes. It is quite enough to hand a little grated Parmesan cheese. Jerusalem Artichoke Patties.—Pill small patties of very light pastry with a puree of Jerusalem Artichokes boiled in milk, seasoned with pepper and salt, and rubbed through a sieve. The patty-pans should be round, and the patties like cups. Serve hot on a napkin. Japanese Artichokes.—This name has been given to the Japanese plant Stachys Tuberifera, which was first grown in this country by Sir Henry Thompson. It is never injured by frost. Boil the tubers in salt and water for from fifteen to twenty minutes. They must be put into boiling water, and the time reckoned from the moment when boiling recommences after the check which the tubers will have given it. Or they can be served cold, with mayonnaise sauce. ASPARAGUS. Asparagus should be carefully washed, tied with tape in little bundles with all the heads level, or set in one of the steamers sold for the purpose at 119 New Bond Street.- It should be put into fast boiling water, in which a quarter of an ounce of salt has been added to each quart of320 ASPARAGUS water. The saucepan must be deep, and the Asparagus ought to be boiled according to Sir Henry Thompson’s method, viz. : “ Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water, “ the steam sufficing to cook them, as they form the tenderest “ part of the plant; while the hard, stalky part is rendered “ soft and succulent by the longer boiling which this plan “ permits. Instead of the orthodox twenty minutes allotted to “ average Asparagus lying horizontally, in the English manner, “ which half cooks the stalk and over cooks the head, diminish - “ ing its flavour and consistence, a period of thirty or forty “ minutes on the plan recommended will render fully a third “ more of the stalk delicious, while the head will be properly “ cooked by the steam alone.” Asparagus must be boiled with the lid of the pan off, and should boil steadily. It must be most carefully drained after boiling, and if tapes have been used they must, of course, be removed. Asparagus must be served dry in a hot dish. Melted butter should be handed, made very hot, and with a few drops of Tarragon vinegar stirred into it at the last moment. The best sauce for Asparagus is the real Beurre Fondu as eaten in Hol- land—that is, butter melted in a saucepan, flavoured with a pinch of salt and of pepper, and the squeeze of a lemon. Let it settle over the fire, and pour it, free from sediment, into a thoroughly heated metal sauce-boat. Asparagus is excellent served cold with cold mayonnaise sauce, or Argenteuil sauce. Sprue is the name given to Asparagus when the stalks have grown very long and thin. It makes a very good dish when cooked with eggs. Sprue and Eg’g’S.—Cut the Sprue into inch lengths, boil it till tender but do not let it be too soft. Drain it thoroughly. Beat separately the yolks and the whites of three eggs, add a little cream. Mix this into the Sprue just warmed in a saucepan. Spread the mixture thickly on cushions of biead fried in butter to a golden brown. In Lombardy Asparagus is eaten with Parmesan cheese. Asparagus alia Lombarda.—Boil the bundle of Aspara- gus, and place it in a fire-proof dish with the heads in the321 ASPARAGUS ALLA LOMBARDA middle and tlae white stalks round the edge. Add a little pepper and salt. Put two to four ounces of butter in the middle of the dish, and set the dish on a tripod over the fire for from eight to ten minutes. Sprinkle the Asparagus thickly with finely-grated Parmesan cheese, and serve in the fire-proof dish. Asparagus a la Chateail-roux.—When the Asparagus is cooked, dry it carefully, keep it hot, and pour over it a sauce made of one ounce of butter thickened with the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a squeeze of lemon, pepper and salt. Be careful not to use any of the whites of the eggs, and heat the sauce in the bain-marie. AUBERGINES. It is a pity that Aubergines, the fruit of the Egg Plant, Solatium melmgena, ovigerum, are not more frequently culti- vated in England, for the plant is very decorative and the fruit useful. In France and Italy Aubergines are much eaten, but those imported are generally spoilt by their arrival here when full grown.. The best kind of Aubergine is the New York Purple. Gardeners are apt to grow this for exhibition and to cause a single fruit to weigh as much as ten or twelve pounds. But Aubergines for cooking should be gathered when they are only two or three inches long; the seeds are not then formed, and the flavour is delicate. Aubergines can be fried in slices as beignets, or cut open lengthways and some of the pulp removed, mixed with grated breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, and either the yolk of an egg or a little cream. This stuffing is put back into the Aubergines, the two halves joined together and tied, and the fruit baked in a buttered tin. A sliced lemon should be handed with them. It is an im- provement to warm the stuffing in a gill of vegetable stock before filling the Aubergines. If fairly large they will take nearly half an hour to bake. Aubergines when small are good if simmered till tender and served with either white or brown sauce. Or they can be, when cooked, cut open and filled as fonds d'artichauts a la Barigoule. Wyvern gives an excellent recipe for Aubergines au gratin. Parboil four very small Aubergines. Y322 AUBERGINES Let them get cold, cut them in halves lengthways, pick out the seeds with the point of a vegetable knife, butter them, and dredge over the surface of each a layer of grated Parmesan cheese. Arrange the Aubergines on a well-buttered fire-proof dish, and bake them for ten minutes. Pour round them a cupful of well-made thick brown sauce, and serve in the dish they were cooked in. In the South of France Aubergines and Vegetable Marrows are cooked a la Provencals. For this the Aubergines or Marrows are cut open lengthways, the seeds scooped out, a little salt sprinkled over, and the vegetables left to drain out the water. Fry them in oil. Have ready a stuffing made of bread- crumbs well browned, mixed with chopped parsley, chopped chives, thyme, marjoram, and moistened with a few drops of oil. Season with pepper and salt. Fill each half of the vegetable with this stuffing, and brown it in the oven or the Dutch oven. BEANS. Broad Beans are generally served too old, when their tough skins would tax the digestion of an ostrich. Very young Broad Beans may be boiled in their pods, but this cannot be done after the pods have thickened and the flannel-like lining has appeared. Broad Beans, even when young, are better without their skins. They should be put on, shelled, in absolutely boiling water, and boiled till the skins crack, which will be in about twenty minutes. Salt should be added, but if too much is put in the Broad Beans will burst and spoil. As soon as the skins crack lift out the Broad Beans, drain them, and rub off the skins in a warm dry cloth. They can then be tossed in butter and served, or heated in a good parsley-and-butter sauce. Or they can be passed through a sieve, and made into rather a stiff puree moistened with parsley and butter. “Wyvern’s” Broad Beans a la Bourgreoise.— Having boiled and skinned the Beans, turn them into a stewpan over a slow fire with a tablespoonful of fresh butter. Mix withBROAD BEANS A LA BOURGEOISE 323 them a tablespoonful of flour, and moisten with some of the water in which the Beans were boiled. Season with pepper and salt, and, when nice and creamy, seiwe. Broad Beans with Custard Sauce.—When the Beans are about three-parts grown shell enough of them to fill a quart measure to the brim. Put a half-gallon stewpan on the fire two-thirds filled with water, season this with a dessertspoonful of salt, and put into it half an ounce of fresh butter. Let it come to the boil, then put in the beans, and boil them till the skin pai’ts easily from the bean when pressed gently between the finger and thumb. Then drain them in a colander, saving -the eau de cuisson in which they have been cooked, pour cold water over the beans, and then pinch them out of their skins. Next, melt an ounce of butter in a quart stewpan, mix in, over a low fire, one ounce of flour, and when well cooked, yet not coloured, stir in by degrees three-quarters of a pint of the eau de cuisson. Bring to the boil, take off the fire, add a coffeecup- ful of the broth into which three yolks of eggs have been mixed, stir well, put in the beans, and set the pan in the bain- marie. Warm up when required, but do not let the sauce boil. Add a tablespoonful of minced chervil and parsley, and serve as hot as possible in a very hot dish. [Wyvern.~] It is difficult to judge the quantity of salt required in boil- ing Broad Beans, as so much depends upon their age. Half an ounce of salt to two quarts of water is the usual allowance. French Beans.—These Beans are eaten in two stages of their existence, first as French Beans, when quite young, with tender pods and seeds unformed; and in the second as Flageolets, when the seeds are nearly ripe. French Beans are at their best when young enough to eat untouched except by boiling. Stringing them then lets out the flavour. But stringing—that is, peeling off the fibre or string which goes all round the pod—is necessary when the French Beans are not very young. It is a great mistake to slice them. I When strung, plunge them into plenty of boiling water, which has been only slightly salted. The pan must not be tinned. Let the French Beans boil quickly in the uncovered pan till they sink to the bottom. When they are tender, drain them only slightly, as a little of the eau de cuisson is an improvement324 BEANS They ought to he tender enough to break when butter, if used, is stirred in at the last moment. For a second-course dish cream can be added to the butter, but it makes a rich dish and must be used with judgment. Serve the dish very hot. French Beans can be cooked in a variety of ways, but surely it is a mistake to conceal their own flavour by adding onion, parsley, or cheese. They are, however, very good when served with a tablespoonful of maitre d’hhtel butter, stirred into them just at the last, or sautes. French Beans Sautes.—After the French Beans are boiled turn them into a saute-pan with just enough butter to moisten them, stir gently over a slow fire and let them absorb the butter, dust a very little salt over them, and serve. Stewed French Beans.—This is the best method when French Beans are no longer quite young, and for this one dish they should be cut across in diamonds. Put the French Beans in a buttered stewpan, add a very little salt, and just cover them with broth. Stew them very slowly, and add a little broth now and then. When tender drain the French Beans, lay them on a hot dish, thicken the broth with half an ounce of butter and the yolk of an egg, and pour it over them. French Beans Panaches or Variegated.—For this dish the young pods and the nearly ripened Beans are cooked to- gether. Take a pint of half-ripe Beans, shell them, throw the pods into boiling salted water and boil to extract the flavour. Strain the water, boil it up again, put in the shelled Beans, and add a quarter of a peck of quite young French Beans, strung but not sliced. Boil these and the shelled Beans together, and they will be both done at the same time if the Beans are only half ripe. Drain, serve in a hot dish, and hand melted butter. Another way is to boil pods and beans separately, then toss each of them in butter, and after that mix them together in a hot dish. Flageolets.—These are the beans of the Dwarf or French Bean when the pods are old and tough, and the beans them- selves three-parts grown. Flageolets are too often neglected in England, and when imported are even supposed to be a vegetable peculiar to foreign countries. Gardeners should be induced to sow French Beans in succession and in sufficient325 FLAGEOLETS quantity to allow a supply to be reserved for Flageolets. Flageolets should be shelled and boiled, or steamed in the jar like peas, only omitting the mint. They are good finished like French Beans in the saute-pan. White Haricot Beans.—These again, so common in France, are hardly known here except in their dried state. They are the beans of the Climbing Bean or Scarlet Runner allowed to ripen in the pod. They come in during October. These Beans should be cooked like Flageolets, but they need more boiling. They can be served with a little of the water they were cooked in, with a pat of butter stirred in at the last. This eau de cuisson can be much strengthened by boiling the pods in a separate pan and adding the water to that in which the Beans were boiled. Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Method of Preserving’ French Beans and Scarlet Runners.—Mrs. Earle preserves these when young, eating the old ones fresh. The French Beans, which are much more delicate in flavour than the Scarlet Runners, are kept in a separate pan. The beans are picked almost daily, and laid as they are brought in in large earthen- ware uncovered pans, a handful of beans and then a handful of salt till the pans are full. They must not be allowed to get touched by frost. Mrs. Earle adds: “I have eaten “ them, preserved in this way, all through the winter. I be- “ lieve this is done everywhere abroad, but never in England, “ where the waste, both in the kitchen and the garden, is, as “ we all acknowledge, a national vice. When wanted, the “ Beans are taken out, well-soaked (to prevent their being too “salt), boiled in the ordinary way, either cut up or whole, “ then drained, and warmed up in fresh butter, a squeeze of “ lemon, and a little chopped parsley on the top. They can “ also be cooked with a white cream sauce. I think these “ salted beans have more flavour than the tinned ones, or than “ those that come from Madeira in the ■winter.” In the South of France French Beans are gathered when ripe, strung into the shape of large wreaths, and dried in the sun. But this cannot be done here. When French Beans are in perfection in England the sun is not powerful enough to dry them, and if dried indoors they only wither and decay.326 BEANS Preserved Flageolets for Second Course.—Blanch half a pound of green flageolet beans in boiling salt and water. Drain them after five minutes’ boiling, and give them a douche of cold water from the tap, and drain this off. Let the Flageolets cool while you fry two ounces of finely-minced onion in an ounce of butter over a low fire till turning brown. Then put in the Flageolets, turn them about with the butter and onions for a minute, and moisten with warm broth and tomato pulp in equal proportions sufficient to cover them. Simmer now gently till the Flageolets are tender, skimming off the butter as it rises. Lastly, stir in two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, and serve with short-paste biscuits. [Wyvem.] For the biscuits see Spinach. Haricot Beans.—These beans, the dried and matured beans of the pods eaten in a green state as Scarlet Runners, ought to be far more used than is at present the case, for they are very nutritious and extremely wholesome. The kind known as the White Soissons should be selected. Haricots need to be soaked in cold water for many hours ; twelve, sixteen, even twenty-four hours are often required, and plenty of water must be used. When the Haricots have been sufficiently soaked drain them well, and put them on in enough cold salted water to cover them. Let them boil gradually, and after they have come to the boil draw the pan to the side of the fire and let the Haricots simmer slowly till they are perfectly soft. This process may take from two to three hours. Be careful not to add more salt, or the beans will crack. When they are cooked, strain them in a colander, and they can then be served in various ways. The water in which Haricot beans have been boiled and stewed is full of nourishment; it is probably the best form of eau de cuisson. It may even be used for the broth called crcndes au pot, when meat is disliked, and it makes the best basis for mulli- gatawny. Haricots in Gravy.—Soak a pint of Haricots as above, then stew them slowly for two hours in broth, and serve with a clear gravy. Or lay a pint of well soaked and boiled Haricots in the gravy of a leg or a shoulder of roast mutton. In this case SirHARICOTS IN GRAVY 327 Henry Thompson says that with a good supply of the gravy from the joint, and a little salt and pepper, some persons think that “ the Haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton.” Haricots with Butter.—When thoroughly cooked and strained put the Haricots in a pan with an ounce of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter which has been mixed with broth. Add salt and pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and one teaspoonful of minced parsley. Toss one pint of beans in this till they are well mixed and quite hot. Haricots may be served a la maitre d’hotel by stirring them, when quite soft, into half a pint of good parsley-and- butter sauce to one pint of Haricots. Haricots are excellent when sent up straight from the fire with an ounce of butter melting over them, and the beans themselves covered with minced parsley and well dusted with black pepper and salt. A little grated cheese can be added. French cooks make a good dish of French Beans and dried Haricots cooked separately, drained, mixed together with an ounce or so of butter, minced parsley, salt and pepper, tossed in the saute-pan, and served very hot. A Basque recipe for White Haricots is to add to them, after cooking and draining, the flesh of two or three sardines pounded up with butter, a drop of garlic, and chopped shallot. Season with salt, pepper, and one or two sliced gherkins, sauter well and turn out into a very hot dish. Put the stewpan back on the fire, add a cupful of eau de cuisson and a teaspoonful of vinegar, boil it up, and pour over the Haricots. Haricots are much improved in flavour if a two-ounce onion, two ounces of carrot, and half an ounce of celery can be cooked with them. A puree of Haricots may be mixed with a smooth puree of onion, either white or brown. Or small pieces of fried bacon may be scattered among the stewed Haricots. “Wyvern’s” Haricot Beans.—Soak a pint of Haricots for twelve hours, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a thick slice of lean bacon, a four-ounce onion cut into quarters, half an ounce of celery, one of carrot sliced, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs tied up in muslin. Season with a quarter of an ounce of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Cover with328 BEANS three pints of lukewarm water, bring once to the boil, and simmer gently till the beans are tender but not broken. Now turn the Haricots out on a sieve till wanted. Strain off the water into a bowl, and pick out the vegetables and muslin bag. Make a roux in a stewpan with an ounce of butter and of flour, stir in by degrees a pint of the water in which the beans were boiled; boil, skim, and add two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and a gill of tomato puree. Pass all through a hair sieve. Arrange the beans on a fire-proof dish, moisten -with the sauce, dot a few bits of butter over the surface, dust over with grated cheese, and heat thoroughly in the oven. This dish is excellent, and most nourishing. Excellent Dried Green Peas are now imported from Italy, and sold under the name of Piselli Verdi. They can be procured at any first-rate Italian warehouse, such as Messrs. De Castro, 66 Piccadilly. They are not so nourishing as Haricot Beans, but they are particularly good as soup, or as a puree, or cooked in any of the ways recommended for Haricots. They require a little Spinach colouring, and the addition of a little mint. These dried Peas are infinitely more palatable than the sort generally sold for feeding pigeons, making pea-soup on board ship, or for the dry pease-pudding served with pork. Lentils can be cooked like Haricots, but they have little flavour. BEETROOT. Beetroot must be carefully dug up or it will “bleed” and become pale and tasteless. The crown of a Beetroot should not be cut down closely, or much of the shoulder, which is the best part, will be lost. Beetroot should always be baked, as it loses colour and becomes as tough as indiarubber when boiled. Salt must never be added, for Beetroot is a thoroughly sweet vegetable, yielding a large amount of sugar. A large root will take a long time to cook, from an hour and a half to two hours to boil, and nearly as long to bake. Of course it cannot be tried with a skewer, but it will generally be done when the outside “ gives ” to a firm touch. It must not be skinned till it is cold. Many people like Beet-BEETROOT 329 root best when cold, cut in thin slices, and served in a soup- plate round a pile of celery, with mayonnaise sauce. Or, after baking, the Beetroot can be sliced, and served hot with bechamel sauce. The young tender leaves can be cooked like Spinach. Stewed Beetroot.—Bake the root and let it get cold. Peel it, slice it, and add some lemon-juice. Put the slices in a stewpan with just enough gravy to cover them, and simmer for half an hour. Before serving thicken the gravy with some cream coloured by beating up a couple of slices of Beetroot in the mortar. CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, AND BROCCOLI. It is important to remember that all varieties of the Cabbage must be first put into cold water with salt and vinegar so as to dislodge insects, then boiled, and then well drained, before any attempt is made to cook them in an artistic way. Still, Cabbage is far better steamed than boiled, as in steaming it does not absorb nearly so much water as in boiling. There are one or two excellent vegetable steamers for this purpose. The Cabbage must first be well sprinkled inside and out with salt, and the leaves thoroughly searched for insects. An ordinary Cabbage must be cut in half, or into four pieces, according to its size. When ready lay it, dry, in the perforated top of the tin steamer. Pill the bottom of the steamer just half full of water, set it over a brisk fire, and test the Cabbage from time to time with a skewer so as to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked. Most green vegetables have a better flavour when steamed than when boiled, but their colour is dulled. To pre- vent this Wyvern advises that a bag of wood ashes should be placed in the water at the bottom of the steamer. Colcannon.—Take equal quantities of cold cooked cabbage and potatoes. Rub them through a sieve and mix them well together. Add pepper and salt, an ounce of butter, and a well- beaten egg. Butter a small pudding basin, press the Colcannon into it, and bake in a hot oven from 30 to 40 minutes. Turn out into a hot dish and serve hot. Colcannon is particularly good with Bubble and Squeak.330 CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, AND BROCCOLI Cabbag’G a la Creme.—Choose a firm white spring Cabbage, and boil it in two waters till tender, changing the water for fresh boiling water at the end of 15 minutes. Drain the Cabbage carefully, and chop it up small on a board. Put it back in the hot saucepan with an ounce of butter, a gill of cream, pepper and salt. Stir over the fire till hot, and turn it out into a hot dish. American Ladies’ Cabbage.—Boil a firm white Cabbage for 15 minutes, then change the water, adding boiling water from a kettle. When the Cabbage is tender drain it thoroughly and let it get cold. Chop it up finely, add two well-beaten eggs, an ounce of butter, three tablespoonfuls of good milk or thin cream, and a little pepper and salt. Stir all well together, and bake in a buttered pudding-dish till brown. Serve very hot. Cabbage cooked in this way is nearly equal to Cauliflower. Brussels Sprouts.—Choose the Sprouts as nearly as possible of the same size, or the small ones will be overdone. Put them into a basin of cold water with salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar for half an hour, so as to dislodge insects. Then throw them into plenty of boiling water, with a good quantity of salt (say half an ounce), and let them boil hard, with the lid of the pan off. Push the Sprouts down occasionally. They ought to be done in twelve minutes. Brussels Sprouts are spoiled if they are overdone; it is better that they should even be a little underdone. Drain them well. Brussels Sprouts, if properly cooked, should be quite green, and very tender. The smaller they are the better, and the large coarse Brussels Sprouts so often sold should be avoided, as they have none of the delicate flavour of the small varieties. Brussels Sprouts make an excellent puree. Or, after being boiled, they can be pulled to pieces, laid on squares of toast, and covered with buttered eggs. Or they can, after careful boiling, draining, and gentle drying in a cloth, be lightly saute in a little butter, sprinkled with a little salt and two or three drops of vinegar of any flavour preferred. Or the Brussels Sprouts may, after boiling slightly in water, be gently stewed till tender in some good gravy, to which a little pepper and salt have been added. Or they may, for a second-course vegetable in winter, be lightly331 BRUSSELS SPROUTS fried in butter after boiling, and sent up on slices of hot buttered toast. They will lose colour and brown if they are not very lightly fried. Broccoli.—Broccoli, like all forms of Cabbage, needs careful cooking. As many of the outer leaves as possible should be removed, taking care that enough remain to hold the flowers together in a green sheath. Put the Broccoli, heads downwards, in strong salt and water for half an hour, by which time all insects ought to be dislodged. Drain the Broccoli and plunge them into abundance of boiling water, adding salt, and boil for fifteen minutes. Small Broccoli will be done in that time ; larger heads will need from twenty to thirty minutes. Slow cooking spoils them. When the Broccoli sink in the water try the stumps with a skewer. When fairly tender lift the Broccoli out with a slice, drain well in a colander, and serve in a hot dish. If pieces of the flower are floating on the water the Broccoli are done, and must be taken out at once, whether the stumps are hard or not. The flower should be perfect, and good in colour, eatable down to the stump, and the stump tender. But the stump may be neglected so long as the flower is unbroken. It is well to cut a X on the stumps of Broccoli as on the stalk of Cauliflower. Red Cabbage.—This is often liked with stewed poultry or game. Split a red cabbage, tear the leaves into thin shreds, and put them into salt and water in order to eject any hidden insects. Drain the cabbage and put it into a stewpan with enough broth to cover it, an ounce of butter rolled in flour, a small piece of bacon, a gill of French vinegar, salt, and pepper. Let the cabbage stew till tendei*, test it with a skewer, take out the bacon, and serve very hot. Pickled Red Cabbage for Winter Use. —Shred the Cabbage as above. Allow a quarter of a pound of butter to three or four large cabbage heads. Melt the butter in an earthenware saucepan on a coal fire. When melted add the cabbage, salt, pepper, a little flour, and a large cupful of good broth. Cover well, and let it cook for about an hour and a half, turning it from time to time. During the last half hour add a glass of strong red wine.332 CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, AND BROCCOLI Cauliflower.—A Cauliflower, as has previously been pointed out, needs careful cooking, and should be boiled head down- wards in order to preserve the whiteness and delicacy of the flower. The stalk must be cut across twice X- Great care must be taken not to break the flower. Cauliflower must be put into plenty of boiling salted water, and never into a tinned saucepan. The lid of the saucepan should be off, but if the Cauliflower does not boil up quickly put the lid on till the water begins to bubble. Cauliflower must be carefully watched, as it is very easily overdone and has then to be served as a sodden broken-up heap. Cauliflower is much better when steamed than when it is boiled. Baked Cauliflower.—When the Cauliflower is nearly boiled try with a skewer if it is tender. Then cut the stalk flat, so that the Cauliflower fills a buttered pudding-dish like a flat bouquet. Beat up a cupful of breadcrumbs to a soft paste with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and three of cream or milk. Season with pepper and salt, add a well-beaten egg, and cover the Cauliflower with the mixture. Cover the dish closely, bake for six minutes in a quick oven, brown in five minutes more. Serve in same dish. Fried Cauliflower.—Cut the flower in even pieces, blanch in salted water, and lift each piece out with a slice or perforated spoon. Place them on a dish to cool, not touching each other. Dip each piece in well-dried flour and fry in butter on both sides. Serve on a hot dish. Grated cheese may be dusted over the pieces. Cauliflower an Gratin.—This dish ought to be more care- fully prepared than it generally is in England. Steam the head till it is all but cooked, and test it with a skewer. Drain it very carefully. Mix one ounce of butter, one ounce and a quarter of flour, a little salt and white pepper, in half a pint of stock, and dissolve into it one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Put the Cauliflower into a fire-proof dish. It can be whole, but it looks better and is easier to help if the spi'igs of the flower are carefully picked off and arranged high, taking care to put one of the tender green leaves between each sprig. Pour the sauce thickly round the Cauliflower, and dust a good layer of cheese over the whole. Put the dish in the oven, and333 CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN bake a golden brown. It will take about twenty minutes, and should be served as soon as the top colours. If required, the top can be browned with a salamander. Steamed Cauliflower.—See that the Cauliflower is thoroughly cleaned, washed, and drained. It must be free from all moisture. Pack good-sized lettuce leaves well round a stew- pan, setting them upright against the sides, and leaving room enough for the Cauliflower in the middle. Melt three ounces of butter in the stewpan. Cut the stalk of the Cauliflower flat, and set it upright in the centre of the pan, adding white pepper and salt. Lay more lettuce leaves over the top of the Cauli- flower, cover the pan closely, and steam slowly. If the Cauli- flower weighed two pounds it will be done in one hour. Serve very hot on the lettuce leaves. Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Cauliflower.—Break the Cauliflower up in pieces large enough for one helping. Boil them very lightly, so that they should be quite firm and dry, almost crisp. It quite spoils them if they are soft and sodden. Serve, in a boat, some white creamy sauce into which you grate a little Parmesan cheese. CARROTS. It is best never to cut Carrots before they are cooked, or the flavour will be weakened and the colour dulled. If the skin is tough it must be scraped, but Carrots, like all vegetables but Flageolets and Haricots, are much better when eaten young. Gardeners should arrange for a succession of Carrots when they are wanted for the kitchen and not for the stable. There is no better vegetable than a young Carrot before the hard core has developed itself. The short variety of Carrot is better for cooking than the long sort. It is important not to boil Carrots too long, or they will lose their flavour, but they must be boiled till tender. Young Carrots ought to be boiled for half an hour, older ones will need an hour, and if really old Carrots have to be cooked, instead of furnishing a delicious bite to a horse, they may have to be boiled for two hours. When tender, take the Carrots out of the pan, carefully cut out any black spots, and divide each Carrot lengthwise into four parts.334 CARROTS Carrots make an excellent puree, and they are very good •as beignets. For this, boil the Carrots, cut them in rounds, have ready some paste made as for water biscuits (see Chapter XX), sprinkle each round of Carrot with sugar, put it between two pieces of paste, wetting the edges to make them stick together, dip each beignet in batter, and fry if possible in oil. Powder a little sugar over the beignets and serve very hot. Stewed Carrots.—Boil and slice the Carrots. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of good broth, a little salt and pepper, and let them stew gently for two hours, keeping the pan closely shut. Fifteen minutes before serving add two lumps of sugar crushed to powder, and a squeeze of lemon. Then shake the pan well, but do not use a spoon. Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Carrots.—Boil the Carrots till tender, and serve with a white sauce made of milk boiled till it thickens, into which has been stirred a little butter and cream. Add chopped parsley and a little sugar. Carrots a la Flamande.—Blanch a pound and a half of young Carrots in boiling water for ten minutes. Drain them carefully. Put the carrots into a stewpan with one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of sugar, and enough stock (say three-quarters of a pint) to cover them. Let the Carrots simmer in a closely-covered pan for twenty minutes at least. They may require thirty minutes’ simmering. Shake the pan occasionally, so that all the Carrots may be cooked evenly. Then let the pan boil briskly till the sauce is reduced to a ;glaze. Roll each Carrot in this glaze, and keep them hot. Remove and strain the liquid the Carrots have been cooked in. As soon as it has cooled beat the yolks only of two eggs well, with a little of the liquid; put the rest of the liquid to warm in the bain-marie, and stir the beaten eggs in, adding finally half an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Dish the Carrots in a dome shape, and pom’ the sauce l’ound them. CARDOONS. The Cardoon, Cynara Cardunculus, is a vegetable much prized abroad and much neglected in this country. Many gardeners find it too troublesome to grow, and many cooks do335 CARDOONS not know how to cook it. The Spanish Cardoon, with its large solid ribs and spineless leaves, is the best variety, for the Tours Cardoon, so much grown in France, is covered with such long sharp spikes that its cultivation is really dangei’ous. Cardoons are grown in trenches like celery, and are banked up about October, so as to blanch the stalks, which are the edible portion. The best way to cook Cardoons is to cut them into four or five inch lengths, and throw them into boiling water into which a little lemon-juice has been squeezed. Keep the Cardoons boiling till their outer woolly skin will rub off in a cloth. Drain them, and throw them into cold water. When the Cardoons have cooled, scrape them, and pull off the stringy skin. Fill a crockery stewpan with boiling water flavoured with pepper and salt, lay a good-sized piece of raw bacon at the bottom, cutting the rind in strips, add a bunch of herbs, and then the Cardoons. Simmer gently till the Cardoons are tender, which may take two hours or more, according to their age and size. Drain the Cardoons and warm them up in good brown sauce. Or they can be served with white sauce. Wyvern advises that Cardoons should be placed on slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, with more bacon above them, and only just enough blanc to cover all. Then add slices of lemon, a little mignonette pepper, and salt, cover the pan, and let the Cardoons simmer vei’y gently till done. The blanc is a sort of stock which is used in boiling celery or any white vege- table to preserve the colour. To make blanc, cut up as small as possible a quarter of a pound of beef suet, and put it with a tablespoonful of flour into three and a half pints of cold water in a stewpan. Boil up and add eight ounces of onion cut up small, a bunch of curly parsley, a tablespoonful of dxiedrthyme or marjoram, the rind of a lemon, a teaspoonful of sugar and one of salt. Stir well over a brisk fire for half an hour, strain, but do not take off the fat as the blanc cooks. When the Car- doons or other vegetables are cooked in blanc, put in with them two or three slices of lemon freed from pips, to improve the colour. Cardoons with Marrow is a favourite French dish. For this get the butcher to break the bone so that you can get the marrow out in pieces the size of a walnut. Blanch the marrow for five minutes in boiling broth, drain the pieces on336 CARDOONS the top of a sieve and let them get cold. When cold cat them in slices, and shortly before they are to be served heat them up gently in a little thick brown sauce in the bain-marie. Put a dessertspoonful of this into little hollo wed-out cases of fried bread, or fill with it little cases of pastry, baked in small patty- pans. Lay the Oardoons on a hot dish, pour the brown sauce over them, arrange the marrow cases round them, aHd serve very hot. Or the marrow can be spread on toast and served in a long nai’row dish with the Cardoons in the centre. Cardoons are good fried in batter as beignets. CELERY. Celery ought to be cooked only just before it is wanted, and must never be left soaking in water. But, if it is to be eaten raw, Celery is made crisper by lying for one hour in cold water in a cold place. It should then be carefully washed, and the coarse outer part taken off, leaving the blanched and tender inner stalks. Celery can be cooked in a variety of ways. It requires careful draining and straining, but the old-fashioned plan of sending up Celery, Asparagus, and Seakale on a thick sodden piece of toast, which absorbed the moisture like a sponge, should never be adopted. Wyvern recommends that Celery should be cut five or sis inches in length, and then split lengthwise into two or four pieces, according to the thickness of the head, and carefully washed. The Celery should then be plunged into fast boiling water and boiled for ten minutes. Take it out, drain and wipe it, and put it to stew gently for about two hours in sufficient common broth or milk and water to cover it. When the Celery is tender strain it, lay it on a hot silver dish and serve as hot as possible, with a pat of butter melting over it. Celery is good stewed in broth with a turnip cut up, a sliced carrot, and three or four whole mushrooms. Some people like it cooked 'in blanc like Cardoons and served with marrow. Mrs, C. W. Earle’s Celery.—(Geleris en branches demi- glaces.).—Pick and peel very carefully six or eight heads of Celei’y, according to size. Bleach them for fifteen or twenty337 MRS. C. W. EARLE’S CELERY minutes in boiling water, dip tbem in cold water to cool tbem, strain tbem on to a clotb, cut tbem in two if they are large, fasten tbem—tbat is, re-form tbe Celery by tying it together with a little string at each end. Put them into a sauce- pan with an onion, one carrot, and a little bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay. Pill up to the brim with half stock and half dripping. Boil it up, and let it cook quite gently by the side of a slow fire or in the oven for three or four hours. Strain them on to a cloth, cut them to equal sizes, remove the outer leaves if they are hard, serve in a silver casserole and sauce them over with a good half glaze or a good veal gravy a little thickened. Fried Celery with Celery Puree.—Trim and quarter, say, eight heads of Celery. Remove any stringy or hard pieces, and blanch for ten minutes in boiling salted water. Then stew the Celery in a little broth till tender. Divide the Celery into two equal parts. Rub one half through a sieve, making it into a puree by adding milk. Season with white pepper and salt, and keep the puree hot. Take the other half of the Celery, which has remained in pieces. Coat each piece well by dipping it in milk and then rolling it in a cloth with plenty of dried flour. Pry these pieces a golden brown. Place them upright in a hot dish, and fill the centre with the puree. Stir a little bit of butter into the puree at the last moment. The pieces of Celery are improved by frying them in batter. Braised Celery.—Trim, blanch, wash, and drain the Celery as before. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan. Cover the bottom closely with sliced vegetables of all sorts. Place the Celery upon this carpet, covering it with a buttered pajser. Put the cover on the pan, and fry all gently for fifteen minutes. Then add a pint and a half of stock, and let the Celery braise gently for two hours and a half. Turn it about from time to time, in order to baste it in the broth, but be careful not to break it. The braising is the important part. When the Celery is tender split each piece into four, place on nicely-fried long croutons, and serve. CELERIAC. Celeriac, or turnip-rooted Celery, the Celeri Rave of the French, is another vegetable too often neglected in this country. z338 CELERIAC The roots and not the stalks are used, and Celeriac is most useful when Celery fails. The roots can he stored in autumn in a shed, or, with a little protection, they can be left in the ground and taken up as required. Celeriac can be used in October. The roots should be well washed, the leaves cut off about an inch from the roots, and if the roots are very large it is well to divide them. Blanch them in boiling salted water, and drain thoroughly. Celeriac makes an excellent puree, and is very good in cooked salads. Wyvern suggests that the roots when peeled should be cut with a root-cutter into round or oval balls before blanching and draining. They are then to be put into a well-buttered stewpan, covered with broth, simmered till tender, and served with either a brown or white sauce, or glazed for a garnish. The Celeriac can be simmered in the sauce and the sauce allowed to reduce with the Celeriac in it. In this case it should be served in a deep dish with the sauce poured round it, and (as with Cardoons) the sauce, whether brown or white, should be as thick as cream. CAPSICUM. This very pretty little shrub belonging to Tropical America is easily cultivated in a greenhouse. The fruit when ripe is bright red, and by gathering and grinding a few at a time fresh and pure Cayenne Pepper is readily made at home. The berries keep pretty well when gathered, but it is much better to let them hang on the bush and pick them as required. The same Capsicum, Capsicum Baccatum, is the CMli, and the fruits when in a green state are made into Chili Vinegar by simmering them in salt and water, and putting them, covered with mustard, into a jar which is filled up with vinegar. This, however, is better bought in small quantities, the Capsicum fruits being allowed to ripen for Cayenne Pepper. CHESTNUTS. The fruit of the Spanish Chestnut ripens sufficiently in the South of England to be used for a puree or for stuffing, but for roasting the large Italian Chestnuts should be bought. These are imported early in November, and can be had for threeCHESTNUTS 339 months. Roasted Chestnuts are generally spoiled by the cook’s notion that they must be parboiled before they are roasted. This produces a hard, indigestible mass, almost tasteless. The man in the street never boils his Chestnuts, but roasts them on a perforated tray over a charcoal fire, so that they become floury and taste of Chestnut. The perforated Diable Bousset, to be had at 119 New Bond Street, roasts Chestnuts perfectly. Cut the Chestnuts twice across, lay them on the perforated tray over a clear fire, shut down the upper tray, and move the Chestnuts about till the curled back edges of the cross-cuts show that they are done. They will take quite ten minutes. For Chestnut Stuffing see page 202. Chestnut Puree.—Roast a pound and half of Chestnuts as above, skin them, simmer them in thin stock or giblet broth for three-quarters of an hour. Let the broth only just cover the Chestnuts, and lay a buttered paper over them. Pass them through a wire sieve, add an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of cream, but no salt or sugar. Warm in the bain-marie, and hand as a vegetable. Or use the Chestnut Puree as a centre for cutlets. Stewed Chestnuts.—Skin, scald, and peel two dozen Chestnuts. Put into an earthenware stewpan two ounces of minced onion and an ounce of butter. Fry till brown, then stir in an ounce of flour, mix well, and moisten with three gills of good broth and one of claret. Season with pepper, salt, and rosemary, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim, simmer ten minutes, and strain through a hair sieve. Wash out the stew- pan, put back the strained sauce, and bring it to the boil. Now slip in the peeled Chestnuts, lower the heat to simmering, and stew gently till they are done. Lastly take off the stewpan, lift the Chestnuts out with a perforated spoon, arrange them in a vegetable dish, stir the yolks of two eggs into the sauce and pour it over them. \Wyvern.~\ This makes an excellent luncheon dish. Chestnuts contain more fatty matter, according to Sir Henry Thompson, than wheat or oats, and they are very nourishing. 7.234° CUCUMBERS. Cucumbers suffer much at the hands of those gardeners whose ambition is to produce gigantic specimens, or “ Mammoth Wonders.” It may be safely said that a Cucumber is best when from twelve to eighteen inches long. Cucumbers are generally associated in one’s mind with a cool salad, with the Cucumber sliced raw. For this it is far the best way to slice the Cucumber as thinly as possible two or three hours before it is wanted, and to let the slices soak in salt and water. Then press them slightly, drain them, and serve in the usual way with pepper sprinkled over them. (Some people add oil and vinegar.) In this way the large quantity of moisture which Cucumbers contain is got rid of. Cucumbers can be cooked in any of the ways suggested for Marrows and Aubergines. For stuffed Cucumbers Wyverris recipe is the best. Peel and half boil a Cucumber, slice off a piece at one end and pick out the seeds with a marrow-spoon. Stuff the hollow thus made with a farce made of pounded meat and breadcrumb, two-thirds of the former to one of the latter. Season the farce with pepper and salt, a little minced shallot and parsley, and bind it with a well-beaten egg. Fix on the end you removed with white of egg and secure it with tape. The Cucumber can now be baked, or gently simmered in broth or milk which should be thickened or poured over it when done. Or, with a large Cucumber, it may be split open down the middle, leaving the two ends intact. The seeds are easily taken out and the stuffing put in. Put on the piece taken off, and serve the Cucumber (which must have been lightly boiled before splitting it) -with Dutch sauce round it. Cucumber a la Poulette.—This is a very good and delicate garnish for cutlets or boiled fish. Cut the Cucumber lengthwise into quarters, take out the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Cut the Cucumber into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stewpan with plenty of boiling water, half an ounce of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer them until three-parts done. (To boil the peel "with the Cucumber is, I think, an improvement to the flavour.)CUCUMBER A LA POULETTE 34i Drain the liquid off, and turn the pieces of Cucumber out upon a clean dish, cut each piece in half, and cover them up. Make half a pint of poulette sauce (see p. 130) with the cuisson, put the pieces of Cucumber into it, warm gently in the bain- marie, and serve. Or the pieces may be simmered until cooked, then drained, piled up on a hot silver dish, and served with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter melting over them. In this way they are specially good with lamb cutlets. [ Wyvern.] Mrs. Earle suggests this way of cooking Cucumbers. Peel and cut up the Cucumber into pieces about two inches long, and divide each piece into two. Soak them for two or three hours in brown sugar and vinegar. Stew them in a little stock, and serve as a vegetable. Or stew the pieces in a little butter. Make the sauce apart by boiling the peel in a little milk and butter, rub it through a fine sieve, mix in a little yolk of egg and pour over the pieces. Cucumbers for the Centre of an Entree.—Peel two Cucumbers of moderate size, cut them down the middle into two lengths, and cut each of these into three-inch pieces, pare off the edges, and round the ends. Take out the seeds, lay the Cucumber in salt and water for two hours, and then dry the pieces on a sieve. When dry put them into a preserving jar with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of white sugar. Set the jar in a cool oven for an hour, watch that the Cucumber is not turning yellow, and if it is take the jar out. Pour off the juice, add another teaspoonful of white sugar and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Let the jar stand in the screen an hour or two, and half an hour before serving set it in the bain-marie. The colour of the Cucumber should be bright green. A little spinach colouring may be added if needed. CHICORY. This Wild Endive, or Succory, has always been popular abroad, and is now often cultivated in this country. The best variety is the Belgian, called Whitloof. The green leaves of Chicory are excellent in May, cooked like Spinach. When forced and blanched, Chicory makes one of the best salads, the French barie de Gapucin.342 CHICORY Puree of Chicory.—Pick six or eight heads of Chicory, boil the leaves in plenty of salted water for half an hour, drain them, cool them in cold water, drain again and press the leaves gently in a cloth. Mince the leaves small, stir them over the fire with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little salt and pepper, and serve on squares of fried bi’ead. DANDELIONS. Dandelions are extremely wholesome, but if the leaves are eaten green they are terribly bitter. They should be blanched till the colour is yellowish white. Dandelion leaves thus treated make a good salad either alone or mixed with other salad. In Prance they are liked in the following way. Wash the leaves if they are at all dirty, and mix them with plenty of slices of cold cooked potatoes. Add white pepper, salt, and chopped herbs. Melt a little butter in a stewpan ; as soon as it is boiling hot add a teaspoonful of vinegar and two tablespoonfuls of oil, stir well, pour over the dandelions and potatoes, and serve very hot. Cream might take the place of the oil. The Fi'ench call this dish Pissenlits en salade chaude. Dandelion leaves when thoroughly blanched make good sandwiches with bread and butter and cold chicken or game. But if at all green the taste is unp'easantly medicinal. ENDIVE. Endive is a troublesome vegetable to cook, for the Curled Endive, which is more often cultivated in England than the Batavian sort, is apt to have its wrinkled leaves crowded with insects. At least six heads of Endive are required for a dish. Endive can be cooked like Spinach, but it requires a good deal of preparation first. Pick off all the outer leaves, cut off the green tips of the other leaves, so that only the white remain. Cut the roots off, detach all leaves from the stalk, and wash the Endive in two or three salted waters. Spread out each leaf with the point of a knife, and look carefully for insects. Drain well in a colander, put the Endive into a large stewpan with plenty of343 ENDIVE boiling water, throw in half an ounce of salt, and continue to boil for twenty-five minutes. When the Endive is tender, drain and cool it and (1) press it through a coarse wire sieve, (2) chop the leaves fine on a clean board. Endive can then be dressed like Spinach, or it can be simmered in broth for a couple of hours. In this latter case, the Endive should become thick enough to bear being put in a heap. Garnish with fried croutons. Endive, finely minced after being boiled for half an hour, makes a good puree, covered with a sauce made by putting- half an ounce of butter rolled in flour into a teacupful of milk, then add pepper and salt, boil for five minutes, stirring all the time, bind with the yolk of an egg, and serve hot. Another way of cooking Endive is to boil it till tender in salted water, and then press out the moisture very gently with a cloth. Make a white roux by mixing two small teaspoonfuls of flour in a little cold water, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, minced onion, and a dust of salt, stir it till cooked. Put in the Endive and let all simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Add a dessert- spoonful of made mustard and some minced parsley, stir gently till all is well mixed with the Endive, and serve in a hot vegetable dish. Endive makes a good winter salad, served with a sauce in which there is plenty of mustard. But every leaf must be most carefully searched for insects. GARLIC. Mrs. C. W. Earle has a very ingenious way of using this vegetable. She says: “ Garlic, which is excellent as a flavour “to most sauces, is such a dangerous thing to use in a “kitchen that the way I manage it is this. Put five or “ six cloves of Garlic into a wide-necked bottle and cover them “ with good spirits of wine. When wanted, stick a skewer or “fork into the spirit and use a drop or two. The spirit “ evaporates and the flavour of the Garlic remains. But even “in this way it must be used carefully for English palates.” This method is far preferable to the usual way of nibbing the stewpan or dish with a clove or division of the bulb of Garlic.344 GARLIC Mrs. Opie, in her Illustrations of Lying in all its Branches, published in 1825, uses Garlic to explain “ Lies falsely called Lies of Benevolence.” A timid lady, on a visit to an economical friend who delighted in preserved food, was pressed to eat some potted sprats, preserved in much salt, a little spice, and plenty of Garlic. The lady hated Gai'lic, but “ what she called “ Benevolence said, Persevere and Swallow, though her palate “said No. ‘Is it not excellent?’ said the hostess. ‘Very,’ “ faltered out the half-suffocated guest. And this was Lie the “First. ‘ Did you ever eat anything like it before ? ’ ‘Never,’ “ replied the lady more firmly, for then she knew she spoke the “ truth, longing to add ‘ And I hope I never shall eat anything “ like it again.’ ‘ I will give you the receipt, for the dish is “ economical as well as good, and serves to make out when we “ have a scrap-dinner. My servants often dine on it.’ ‘ I “wonder you can get any servants to live with you,’ thought “ the guest, ‘ but I daresay you do not get any to stay long.’ “ ‘ You do not however eat as if you liked it,’ said the hostess. “ ‘ Oh yes, indeed I do, very much ’ (Lie the Second), ‘ but you “ forget I have already eaten a good dinner ’ (Lie the Third). “ Alas ! what had Benevolence, so-called, to answer for on this “ occasion! ‘ Well, I am delighted to find that you like my “Potted Sprats. John, do not let those Sprats be eaten in the “ kitchen ’; an order which the guest heard with indescribable “ alarm.” Next day the Sprats re-appeared at the economical luncheon, eaten in the post-chaise, in order to avoid ordering a meal at the inn. “ Alas ! ” thought the guest, “ Pandora’s box “ was nothing to this luncheon box, for in that Hope remained “ behind, but at the bottom of this is Despair. In vain did the “ Tin happy lady declare (Lie the Fourth) that she had no “ appetite, and (Lie the Fifth) that she never ate in a morning. “ Her hostess would take no denial. However, she contrived to “ get a piece of Sprat down, enveloped in bread, and the rest “ she threw out of the window when her companion was looking “ another way, who, however, on turning round, exclaimed, “ ‘ So you have soon despatched the first! Let me give you “ another; do not refuse because you think they are nearly “ finished; I assure you there are several left, and (delightful “ information) we shall have a fresh supply to-morrow.’GARLIC 345 That evening the Sprats appeared as a bonne bouclie at supper, a meal "which the unlucky guest had owned that she enjoyed. “ There was therefore no retreat from the maze in which her “ insincerity liad involved her, and eat she must. But when “ slie again smelt on lier plate the nauseous composition, which, “ being near the bottom of the pot, was more disagreeable tban “ ever, human patience and human infirmity could bear no “ more; the scarcely-tasted morsel fell from her lips, and she “ rushed precipitately into the open air, almost disposed to “ execrate in her heart potted Sprats, the good breeding of her “ officious hostess (who, not eating supper herself, bad been at “ liberty to attend entirely to the wants of her guest), and even “ Benevolence itself.” HORSERADISH. Horseradish does not belong to the same family as the small Radishes eaten uncooked. It is one of the earliest vegetables known to cultivation, and the root is eaten, when grated, either in a raw state or made into sauce. Much Horse- radish is imported from Germany and elsewhere, but it is not nearly so good as that grown in England. (Those who cultivate Horseradish in gardens should be careful never to grow Aconite, or Monk’s Hood. The root of this plant is a deadly poison, and has often been mistaken for Horseradish, with fatal results.) Large roots have not so delicate a flavour as the young and tender Horseradish, but scrapings of them are very useful in fish-cookery, especially for pond or river fish. The value of Horseradish in this respect is mentioned by Izaak Walton, in his Gompleat Angler, published in 1653, and his advice is followed by wise cooks in the present day. It is a good plan at the beginning of winter to slice a root of Horseradish, and dry it before the fire. When quite dry pound it in a mortar, grate, and keep the powder in a labelled bottle for use. For Horseradish Sauce see page 133.346 VEGETABLES—PART II. LAVER. Laver is a sea-weed, indigenous in this country, but unknown in France. There are two kinds, each with leaves like broad ribbons. One, Poiphyra vulgaris, is purple, and is thought the best. The other, Diva latissivia, is green. Sir Henry Thompson says that Laver, like Mushrooms, ranks much higher in nutritive value than green vegetables. It is best eaten with roast mutton. Laver is in season from October to March. When gathered fresh from the rocks soak it in two waters, about an hour in each, to get rid of the salt. Then simmer the Laver in hot water till it is quite soft and mucilaginous. Cook it like Spinach with a little stock or butter, and a squeeze of lemon- juice. Serve as hot as possible in a dish over a spirit-lamp, and always help Laver with a little wooden spoon. Such shops as Messrs. Cobbett and Morel, in Pall Mall, supply Laver three times a week during the winter. This Laver has been soaked already, and only needs warming up in stock and moistening with a little butter. LEEKS. Leeks are best stewed. Take off the coarse leaves, cut the Leeks in four-inch lengths, wash them, and blanch them twice in boiling water, adding salt the second time. Drain very thoroughly. Simmer the Leeks gently in either broth or milk, but use as little liquid as possible, as Leeks are a watery vegetable. More liquid can easily be added, but if Leeks are stewed in too much they will be sodden. Wyvern says that Leeks in the form of puree with a dusting of grated cheese make a good savoury toast. Leek Milk is excellent for a cold. For this, cut up the Leeks, using every part, including the green tops, and boil them in milk till it becomes quite thick. Salt must not be added.347 LETTUCES. It is a great mistake to think that Lettuces can only be eaten as salad, and it is another mistake to let gardeners over- look them till they are running to seed. If, however, the stalks can be captured when they are just beginning to run to seed they are excellent if cooked like celery, or cut to one length and stewed. Wyvern gives two excellent methods of cooking Lettuce hot. Both are applicable to the cabbage Lettuce (the French Laitue) and to the long Cos Lettuce (Laitue Romaine). Cos Lettuce derives its name from the fertile island of Cos, one of the Cyclades, now belonging to Greece, where Lettuces have been cultivated from the earliest ages. Stewed Lettuces.—Choose three fair-sized Lettuces, soak them like cabbages to get rid of slugs and insects. Trim them neatly, casting away all bruised or faded leaves, plunge them into boiling water (salted) for ten minutes to blanch them, drain them, pour cold water over them, press the moisture from them, cut them in two, season with a sprinkling of salt, tie the halves together with tapes, put them into a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover them, add two table- spoonfuls of melted dripping or stock-pot fat, an onion, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of cloves ; cover with a round of buttered paper, and simmer for two hours. When serving sever the tapes and pour about half a pint of good brown sauce made from their cuisson over them. “ Wyvern’s ” Laitues Farcies. —After blanching the Let- tuces and cutting them in halves, carefully pick out a few leaves from the centre of each so as to form a hollow for the reception of a dessertspoonful of chicken or veal forcemeat. Close the halves again and proceed as in the foregoing. Lettuces can be cooked like Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Celery en branches. MUSHROOMS. Mushrooms ought to be cooked as simply as possible, so as to preserve their distinctive flavour. Tinned Mushrooms are flavourless and leathexy.343 MUSHROOMS IIig stalks of Mushrooms should be so cut as to leave a little of each within the hollow of the Mushrooms. All stalks and peelings should be put into a saucepan as the Mushrooms are cleaned. Add to these trimmings just enough water to float them, season with salt and pepper, and let them boil. Then simmer for fifteen minutes, and strain through fine muslin to get rid of any grit which may have adhered to the stalks. This fresh ketchup is most useful as an addition to sauces, and also for moistening Baked Mushrooms. Mushrooms Cooked under Glass. —Place each Mushroom on a piece of toast, season with pepper and salt, and put a tiny bit of butter on each Mushroom. Set the dish in front of the fire. Turn a small tumbler over each Mushroom, or a finger- glass over two or three, and let them cook in their own steam. Serve in the dish the Mushrooms have been cooked in, and do not remove the toasts. Stewed Mushrooms with Butter.—Choose large button Mushrooms, and cleanse them (if required) by wiping them with a soft cloth or flannel, dipped in vinegar. Remove the stalks, and peel the Mushrooms from the edge inwards. Fold them in a dry cloth so that they may be perfectly free from moisture. Allow half an ounce of butter to every half pound of Mushrooms, and melt it in an enamelled stewpan. Put the Mushrooms into the stewpan, dusting them freely with pepper and salt. Put the lid of the stewpan tightly on, and set the pan on a clear fire till the Mushrooms have simmered for three minutes. Shake the pan, so that the Mushrooms may not catch or stick to it. Draw the pan aside from the great heat of the fire, and let the Mushrooms slowly stew in their own juice. A pound of Mushrooms will take about forty minutes. Heap the Mushrooms in a hot dish, pour their own gravy over them, adding nothing, and serve at once. Mushrooms with Cream.—Toss the Mushrooms over a brisk fire in some butter seasoned with salt. When they are done, and the butter nearly all wasted away, add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up in good cream. Dust well with pepper, and serve very hot. For this dish the Mushrooms may be cut in pieces. “ Wyvern’s ” Mushroom Puree.—Put eight or ten ounces of fresh Mushrooms wiped and peeled into a stewpan with the349 “ WYVERN’S ” MUSHROOM PUREE fresh ketchup made of their stalks and peelings and carefully- strained through fine muslin. Add a coffeecupful of milk, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Bring to the boil for two minutes only. Simmer for fifteen minutes. Remove the pan from the fire and let the Mushrooms cool in the ketchup. Then drain and wipe them, pound and pass them through the sieve, using half an ounce of butter to assist the operation. Take half a pint of melted butter made with broth, add the Mushroom ketchup, stir over the fire till the sauce coats the spoon, and then add the puree. Set in the bain-marie till wanted. This Puree makes an excellent sauce or garnish. Or it can be served as a savoury in little hollow croutes of puff paste. For this dilute the Mushroom puree with very strongly reduced brown sauce. Cap each croute with a whole Mushroom set hollow downwards. Heat the croutes till very hot in the oven, and serve dished on a napkin. Or add half a gill or so of whipped cream to the Mushroom puree, pour the mixture into small darioles, set these over ice, and serve as Mushroom Creams ice-cold, garnished with cress or watercress. Plainly Baked Mushrooms.—Butter as many squares of toast (if possible use brown bread) as there are Mushrooms. Put the Mushrooms on the toasts, and set them, stalk upwards, on a well-buttered tin. Dust the Mushrooms freely with salt and pepper, and put a morsel of butter in the hollow of each. Cover the Mushrooms with another tin, and bake in the oven from eight to ten minutes. If a fire-proof dish is used for the Mushrooms they can be served in it without losing either flavour or heat. The tin which covers them during baking is easily removed. “ Wyvern’s” Baked Mushrooms.—Mushrooms au Gmtin. —Put into a saucepan an ounce of butter, and stir into it half an ounce of flour. When mixed, add half a pint of made gravy. Stir well, and throw in. the chopped stalks and peelings of the Mushrooms, a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, a tea- spoonful of minced onion, a saltspoonful of salt, and a dusting of pepper. Simmer the sauce until it is thick and rich, add a spoonful of cream, and strain it. Now butter a fire-proof dish liberally, place the Mushrooms upon it head downwards, fill their hollow parts with the thick sauce, and set the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes. As soon as the MushroomsMUSHROOMS 35° flatten themselves, as it were, they are done. Serve in same dish, and hand dry toast. Grilled Mushrooms.—Put the Mushrooms stalk down- wards on the gridiron, over a clear, but not a fierce, fire. After three minutes turn them, and then put a morsel of butter in the centre of each, so that it will run from the stalk into the gills whilst the top sides are cooking. The Mushrooms should be cooked in ten minutes, as they ought not to be overdone. Place them in a hot dish, stalk-side upwards, before a bright fire, and put another little piece of butter in the centre of each. While this is melting, dust freely with pepper and salt, and serve the Mushrooms at once. Stewed Mushrooms.—Button Mushrooms are the best for stewing, and are more digestible when stewed in broth without cream or butter. Let the Mushrooms stew in some good stock for ten minutes. Beat a little flour in some more stock till quite smooth, add it to the Mushrooms, and let them boil up. Stir occasionally, but be very careful not to break the buttons. After cooking for five minutes try the Mushrooms ; if tender, serve at once; if not quite done, cook them for a minute or two longer. Wild Mushrooms are infinitely better and more full of flavour than those which are cultivated. But it is often very difficult to gather any if one does not live miles away from a town. People come out at peep of day, and gather Mushrooms every hour till night-fall, when it is too dark to see them. It is somewhat exasperating to witness this, and then to be invited to purchase one’s own property out of the bursting pocket-handkerchiefs and loaded pillow-cases of the gatherers. However, if any Mushrooms can be secured for preserving, button Mushrooms, done with salt, are the best. Do not wash the buttons, but wipe them clean with a flannel dipped in salt. Lay them one by one on a dish, and strew a little salt over them. Heat them in a stewpan until the liquor will run out, adding a little ground white pepper. Shake the buttons over the stove till they have nearly absorbed the liquor again. Now add gently just enough white French vinegar to cover the buttons, and give them a boil up. Put them into tightly corked bottles, using wax for the corks (see Chapter XVIII). Button Mushrooms, preserved at home, are often useful. A simple Mushroom Ketchup is made by chopping two35i STEWED MUSHROOMS pounds of large Mushrooms into small pieces, adding a pound of salt, and letting it stand for four days. Then strain and pass it through a tamis-cloth. Let the liquor settle, pour it off into a stewpan, add half an ounce of whole black pepper. Boil all together for half an hour. When it is quite cold strain it again, bottle it, cork it tightly, and wax the corks. Some people add a piece of ginger and half an ounce of allspice with the pepper, but to many tastes the strong simple essence of the Mushrooms is preferable. This Ketchup keeps well, but the flavour is better if it is made frequently. MUSTARD. The leaves of Mustard are eaten as small salad, and the seeds are prepared as Mustard flour. Mustard so soon gets dry and tasteless that it should be mixed almost every day. If the mustard-pot is left open the Mustard spoils in a few hours. It is the best plan to mix a small quantity every day an hour before it is wanted. Mix one ounce of flour of Mustard with one teaspoonful of salt. When well blended together add eight teaspoonfuls of cold water, a little at a time, stirring and rubbing all well together till quite smooth. Use a small wooden spoon, and keep it for mixing Mustard. The more the Mustard is stirred and rubbed with the wooden spoon the better it will be. For roast beef a tablespoonful of grated horseradish may be boiled in the water which, when cold, is used for mixing the Mustard. The best kind of French Mustard is Maille’s. French Mustard is prepared with vinegar and a little gai-lic. An imi- tation of it can be made by boiling a minced shallot in four tablespoonfuls of water till they are reduced one half, strain, and when the water is cold mix the Mustard with it, adding from a teaspoonful to a dessertspoonful of vinegar. OLIVES. The large Spanish Olive looks best, as the French and Italian Olives are much smaller. “ Turned Olives ” are pre- pared in this way. Take a sharp knife (a penknife will do), and cut a thin slice off the bottom of the Olive to make it stand352 OLIVES upright. Then begin at the thick end or bottom of the Olive, and peel off the flesh in a thick, short, spiral coil. Three “ turns ” ought to leave the stone of the Olive bare. Keep the blade of the knife close against the stone, and peel the Olive as if you were paring an apple, only recollecting that with an apple the peel has to be cut as thin, and with an Olive as thick, as possible. When the stone is taken out the Olive is pressed together again, and resumes its former shape, the spiral rind being unbroken. The cavity left by the Olive stone may, if wished, be filled in various ways, for which see Savouries, Chapter XIX. ONIONS. Baked Onions.—The large mild Spanish or Bermuda Onions should be chosen for this dish. Remove only the two or three outer coats of the Onions, leaving the rest to preserve the flavour. Boil the Onions for one hour in slightly salted boiling water. During the boiling change the water twice, always pouring in fresh boiling water from a kettle. Take the Onions out, and lay them on a cloth to get quite dry. Roll each Onion in a round piece of buttered paper, twisting up the paper tightly at the top to keep it closed. Bake the Onions in a slow oven for an hour, then try them with a needle. When tender all through, peel them, lay them in a deep dish, and baste with gravy thickened with a little flour. Or baste with butter for fifteen minutes. Add pepper and salt, and serve in a hot vegetable dish. Fried Onions.—Blanch the Onions for five minutes, cool them, and slice them finely crosswise. Dry these rings in flour upon a cloth, and put them into the frying-basket. Plunge this into very hot fat for five or six minutes, drain, sprinkle with a little salt, and serve. The rings should be crisp and golden brown in colour, not dark and sodden as Fired Onions too often are. Roasted Onions.—This is an excellent way of cooking the large mild Portugal Onions. Take off one or two of their coats, chop these up and put them and the Onions into an earthenware casserole on the hot plate. Add half an ounce of butter (or more if liked) to each Onion. Let them slowly cook for two hours. The Onions then will be so tender asROASTED ONIONS 353 almost to melt when helped. Serve if possible in the dish the Onions were cooked in. It is a good plan to boil two or three very young Onions in clear soup. They much improve its flavour and consistency. If Onion is added to a dish it should not be perceptible except as a flavour. Nothing is more disagreeable than to get a “ tang,” (to use the old-fashioned word for a strong taste), of Onion left in the mouth. One of the knives sold for peeling and slicing Onions and marked Onion should be in every kitchen, and no other knife should be allowed to be used for the purpose. Many a plate of bread and butter has been ruined by having been cut or spread with “ an oniony knife.” When Onions are sliced for soups, etc., they should be cut lengthwise, as in that way they go to pieces more thoroughly. Stewed Portugal Onions.—Peel the otiter coats off four onions, and put them into a quart of strong broth with half a pound of sifted sugar, and a pinch of salt. Cover the stewpan closely and set it in the oven. The Onions will take from six to eight hours to cook. When done the broth will be reduced to glaze. A glass of Chablis very much improves the stock. Onion Puree or Soubise Puree.—{Family Recipe.)— Spanish or Portugal Onions are best for this Puree, but if common Onions are used they must be blanched in boiling water for five minutes. Simmer three Onions in sufficient milk or stock to cover them. When quite tender, mash them through a sieve. Work into the Onion pulp a coffeecupful of cream, add pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Never add flour. (See also Page 130.) Onion Threads are not nearly so much known as they should be. They are simply the tiny leaves of the Onion as they appear when the seed has been sown for ten days. To obtain them a little Onion seed should be sown at frequent intervals. Onion Threads minced are far more delicate in flavour than chives. Button Onions Glazed.—These, if mild, are sometimes liked as a garnish. The Onions must be quite small, not larger than those used for pickling. Put them into a stewpan with enough butter or clarified dripping to fry them without burning, A A354 ONIONS tarn them about with a wooden spoon over a good fire to colour them. Then put them into a saute-pan, moisten with enough broth to cover them, roll them about in this with the spoon over a quick fire, and as the broth reduces it will form a glaze. Baste the Onions with this so as to glaze them evenly, and when that has been done they are ready. PARSNIPS. No vegetable suffers more from bad cooking than the Parsnip. It would not be too much to say that the mess of half-cooked sweetish sticks, or lumps, usually served as Parsnips is uneatable. There is a great deal of nourish- ment in Parsnips, and although their sweet taste will always be disagreeable to some people they are, if properly cooked, a most wholesome and digestible vegetable. Parsnips must on no account be cut before they are cooked. They must be washed, brushed, and put into just enough boil- ing water to cover them. Let the Parsnips simmer till tender, which will be about an hour and a half. Do not add anjr water in the course of simmering, and let the water the Parsnips were put on in reduce to the fullest extent, so that when they are tender there will hardly be a drop to drain off. The simmering should result in melting the Parsnips, so that the rich sugary flavour is not lost, and only a creamy pulp full of nourishment remains. Serve in a very hot dish. Parsnips, cooked in this way, and not mashed, are considered- to be one of the most wholesome vegetable foods in the world. v PEAS. G-reen Peas should be served as plainly as possible to suit English tastes. No Peas are so good as those grown in England, and it is a great mistake to use the various additions which are in favour abroad. Young Peas should be shelled as soon as gathered, and must on no account be washed. They should be put into fast boiling water, but the water must only just cover them. A dessert-355 PEAS spoonful of salt and the same quantity of sugar should be added to every quart of water, for both salt and sugar prevent the escape of the juices of the Peas. One pint of Peas will require a quart of water. If liked, add half an ounce of fresh mint, but early Peas are best without any addition. On no account use any soda; it ruins young Peas. Let the Peas boil fast, with the cover off the pan, for ten to twelve minutes. Take the Peas out, drain them in a colander, and serve at once in a hot dish. Do not boil Peas in a tinned saucepan. Some people add an ounce of butter, a dusting of pepper and salt, and a little sugar, to the Peas, blending and working all well together in a saute-pan before turning out the Peas into their hot dish ready for serving. A spring onion, as small as possible, may be boiled with the Peas, and removed before serving. It is the custom in Holland to boil the pods of Peas, and to serve them as a vegetable. This method does not at present commend itself to English palates, but as Peas cease to be quite young it is an excellent plan to boil the pods (after the Peas have been shelled and carefully covered up), in the water in which the Peas themselves will be boiled later on. The pods should be trimmed like French beans, soaked for twenty minutes, then put into boiling water with two ounces of mint, a dessertspoonful of salt, and three lumps of sugar. Boil fast for half an hour. Then strain, boil the water again when the particles of pod have been quite removed, and add the fresh Peas as soon as the water boils. Boil for half an hour. If Peas have to be shelled some time before they are wanted, pnt them in a dry basin and cover them with a damp cloth. Peas in the Jar.—This is, in the opinion of many people, the best way of cooking Peas. The full flavour is extracted, and, whilst young Peas are not overdone, old Peas become perfectly tender when cooked in this manner. Put one pint of shelled green Peas into a 2-lb. jam jar with a screw top. Put in with the Peas a tablespoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, twelve mint leaves, a teaspoonful of sugai*, and a very little black pepper. Be careful that the jar is absolutely closed. Put the jar in the bain-marie, or in a stew- pan half full of boiling water. Set the pan containing the jar A A 2PEAS 356 on the fire, and boil briskly. If the Peas are young they will be clone in about half an hour, older Peas in forty minutes, or longer. Peas dressed with Lettuce.—Choose a fine lettuce, strip off the outside leaves, open the centre and insert a fresh sprig of thyme. Tie the lettuce together, or it will fall to pieces. Put it into a stewpan with a quart and a half of freshly-shelled Peas, a quarter of a pound of butter, and just one gill of water. No more water is required, as the lettuce and the Peas yield a good deal. Add a little salt. Put the pan on a slow fire for twenty minutes. Then take out the lettuce, and allow the Peas to stew till they have absorbed all the sauce. Stir the yolk of an egg into four tablespoonfuls of cream, add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a dust of white pepper. Mix this very quickly with the Peas, so that their heat and that of the stew- pan warms the cream. Do not put this sauce on the fire, or the egg and cream will curdle. Stewed Peas a la Fran^aise.—Put a quart of Peas, one ounce minced onion, half an ounce powdered sugar, a pinch of salt, and one gill of water into a closely-covered stewpan. Stew gently for half an hour. When the Peas are done add three ounces of butter, toss it well in the stewpan, so that it mixes with the Peas, but be careful not to put it on the fire. If you do, the butter will oil. Stewed Peas a la Paysanne.—The oldest Peas can be made tender if cooked in this way. Put three ounces of butter, an ounce of minced onion, a bunch of mint, and a teaspoonful of salt into a stewpan. Cook this till the onion begins to colour, then add a quart of Peas with as much broth as will float them. Add one or two sliced lettuces. Stew very slowly till the Peas are tender. Strain, add a teaspoonful of sugar, thicken the liquid with a little butter and flour, put the Peas back into it, stir well, bring the saucepan to steaming point, and serve at once. Some people prefer, for both these dishes, that a small onion should be put in whole, and removed when the Peas are served. Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Stewed Peas.—Put the Peas into a saucepan with a good-sized cabbage-lettuce cut up, a white357 MRS. C. W. EARLE’S STEWED PEAS onion, a sprig of parsley, and four ounces of butter kneaded with flour. Put the butter in small lumps on the Peas, and add a lump of sugar and a very little salt. Cover the saucepan, and let it simmer slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. (A bunch of mint should be added, and might by many people be preferred to the parsley.) Green Peas with Lettuces.—For this dish stew two large Cabbage Lettuces as on page 347. Boil the Peas in water in which the shells have been boiled, with a good bunch of mint, a bouquet of parsley, a green onion, some lettuce leaves and stalks. When the Peas are done remove these leaves and the bouquet, put the Peas in a very hot dish with some morsels of butter melting on them, and arrange the stewed Lettuces round them. Puree Of Peas.—Boil the Peas well, and rub them through a sieve. Add half an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a dust of pepper, and of sugar, and a very little salt. SALSIFY. Salsify is a somewhat tasteless root, in appearance like a white carrot. It is best when slowly simmered for half an hour, then cut into pieces three inches long, and fried in batter. When the pieces of Salsify are dry, grated cheese should be dusted over them. Salsify is considered to taste like oysters, and is served in scallop shells, as Mock Oysters. The Salsify is well boiled, cut in slices, slightly mashed, and warmed up in white sauce. Now fill the shells, sprinkle the Salsify with breadcrumbs and a little grated cheese, and brown the surface in the oven. “Wyvern’s” Salsify. —Take one quart of water, a tea- spoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and four ounces of melted beef dripping, and stir all over the fire till boiling. Cut two pounds of Salsify into two and a half- inch lengths, and put it in. Slowly simmer for half an hour, the stewpan not quite closed, adding a tablespoonful of flour to the water to whiten the Salsify. Drain358 SALSIFY the Salsify, and set it in a cold place or on ice to fret cold. Before serving arrange the roots neatly in a dish, sprinkle them with a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and garnish with watercress. Hand Sauce d’Argenteuil in a boat. For this sauce (which is excellent with cold Asparagus, and indeed with many cold vegetables), pound three hard-boiled yolks of egg to a paste, and work into it a sherryglassfnl (half a gill) of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mustard, a saltspoonful of pepper and one of salt. Mix thoroughly, and add a table- spoonful of cold veloute, finishing with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a dessertspoonful of minced parsley. Serve very cold. Scorzonera can be dressed in exactly the same way. SCORZONERA. It is a mistake to call Scorzonera black Salsify and to imagine that it is Salsify when two years old. The plants are quite different, although the roots are similar in shape. Scorzonera is a sort of Viper’s Grass, and the name comes from the old French word scorzon and the Catalonian scurzon, a serpent. The Scorzonera Hispanica of our gardens was much used in Spain as a cooling medicine in cases of snake-bite. It is sown in April, and the roots must be taken up in the following November. In America Scorzonera is a favourite vegetable, and is called the Oyster Plant from its taste. English cooks make a great mistake when they scrape and peel Scorzonera raw. This makes the dark roots “ sweat ” and turn black, but if they are simmered in the proportion of two pounds of Scorzonera to a quart of boiling salted water, they peel easily and remain perfectly white. The roots must not be divided before boiling, and it is necessary to try with a wooden skewer when they are done, as metal turns them black. Scoi’zonera is good when boiled, left to cool, mashed with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste and moistened with milk. The fibres are taken out, the Scorzonera covered with bread- crumbs, and baked in the oven. Or Scorzonera can be made into a puree by rubbing it through a sieve after boiling and359 SCORZONERA served garnished with little bits of the boiled root. Or it can be fried in batter like Salsify. Scorzonera soup is considered to taste like oyster soup. SEAKALE. Seakale should be neatly trimmed, leaving just enough of the stump on each piece to hold the parts together in nicely- sized bundles. Wash each piece very carefully to get rid of all earth or grit. Tie every two or three bundles together. Boil in salted boiling water for twenty minutes. Try with a skewer if the Seakale is perfectly tender. Drain it carefully, remove the strings or tapes, and serve on a hot dish. Do not lay the Seakale on toast, and do not send it up drowned in melted butter. The melted butter should be handed in a boat. Seakale is excellent cold. In this case, sprinkle a very few drops of tarragon vinegar over it, and hand plain cream cold in a cream-jug. Or Seakale can be boiled in milk and water, and served in a very hot dish, with a pat of butter laid upon it at the last moment. Seakale is one of our indigenous English vegetables, and will by no means lend itself to the additions and flavourings of foreign cookery. It is curious that Wm. Salmon, who published his “Herbal” in 1710 (dedicating it to Queen Anne, whose phj’sician he was), should actually pity the “ Several Poor People near the Sea ” who had to eat the wild Seakale. He admits, however, that by much boiling of the young leaves “ the bitter- ness thereof ” was greatly lessened. SORREL. Sorrel ought to be much more used than it is in England, and it is important to cook it as soon as it is picked. Sorrel fades quickly, and if bought from a shop always needs to be revived in water before it is cooked. Sorrel should be washed like Spinach, picked, the stalks nipped off, and it should then be carefully drained, scalded in boiling water, and rubbed through a sieve. Put it back in the saucepan, add a little veal broth, and simmer till the Sorrel is36° SORREL a smooth puree. Or add an ounce of butter and a tablespoon- ful of flour to the Sorrel, work all well together, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of gravy over a low fire just before serving. Sorrel, after having been boiled, can be rubbed through a • tamis into a stewpan, and stewed for a few minutes, adding an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfuls of white sauce. In cooking Sorrel a little sugar must always be used. If the flavour is thought too sharp, cook the Sorrel with Spinach, using either half of each or one part Sorrel to three parts Spinach, according to taste. If the Sorrel is old, Lettuce is better than Spinach to cook with it, as the Lettuce softens the sour taste of the Sorrel. Sorrel Sauce.—Thicken half a pint of broth with the Sorrel puree made as above, and add a few Lettuce leaves shredded. Serve with veal or mutton cutlets. Many people like a little onion with Sorrel sauce. Sorrel, carefully prepared, can be cooked in any of the ways recommended for Spinach. No vegetable is more wholesome, especially when young and fresh. SHALLOTS. Shallots are of the same family as Garlic, but infinitely milder in flavour. A clove of the bulb of a Shallot is very useful in many ways, and is often rubbed over a pie-dish before the meat is put in. In cultivating or ordering Shallots the kind to choose is the true Shallot (indigenous in Palestine). This kind is long and pointed in shape, and much better in flavour than the coarser and larger varieties. The French name is Eschalote. SPINACH. “ How good the Spinach was ! not at all gritty ! ” is a not uncommon remark in houses where care is taken in cooking the Spinach. Spinach cannot be gritty if it has been properly washed, and in cold weather water may be used with the chill off. This will prevent those sufferings of the kitchenmaid which are often the cause of grit in the Spinach. Spinach ought to be washed differently from other vegetables. It should361 SPINACH be swung round and round in three different waters, and the water should never be drained from the Spinach. The floating Spinach should be taken out by the hand, and put into a second and a third clean basin, fresh water poured upon it, and the swinging round and round repeated in each case. It is a great mistake to boil Spinach ; it should be stewed. If Spinach is young there is no need to pass it through a sieve; if it is old the sieve is necessary, and the stalks and mid-ribs must always be removed from Spinach which is not quite young. When it is necessary to boil Spinach put it in a saucepan without any water, and set the saucepan itself in boiling water. When it is done, which will be in about fifteen minutes, press all moisture from the Spinach by squeezing it in a cloth. Stewed Spinach.—Wash two pounds of Spinach as directed, pick the leaves carefully, and if necessary remove stalks and mid-ribs. Blanch the Spinach by plunging it for six minutes in plenty of boiling salted water. Drain through a colander. Throw the Spinach into plenty of cold water to cool, and drain again, pressing out moisture as far as possible. Chop the Spinach up. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter, three- quarters of an ounce of flour, a pinch of salt and a pinch of sugar. Stir this over the fire for three minutes. Add the chopped Spinach, stir round for five minutes, and moisten with a coffeecupful of milk, broth, or stock. Stir over a low fire for two minutes more, and then add a breakfastcupful of either the milk or the stock, stir till almost dry, and take the pan from the fire. Now mingle a pat of butter with the Spinach, or add a tablespoonful of milk with the yolk of an egg dissolved in it. Turn the Spinach out upon a really hot dish. This is Wyvern’s method. And his biscuits to be eaten with Spinach are infinitely superior to the hard, tasteless sippets of fried bread which are usually served as a garnish. Savoury Shortbread Biscuits for Spinach.—Put four ounces of flour into a bowl and mix into it two and a half ounces of butter liquefied, a saltspoonful of salt, one whole well- beaten egg, a pinch of sugar, and one ounce of grated cheese. Add a spoonful of milk or so to form a pliant paste. Roll out the paste one-third of an inch thick, cut into heart-shapes and bake. By Wyvern’s method Spinach is stewed in a quarter of anSPINACH 362 hour, and either milk or stock can be used. A tinned saucepan must never be used for Spinach. Border of Spinach.—Dress the Spinach as above, shape it into a circle, and fill the hollow with buttered eggs. Patties with Spinach.—Make these of the shortbread paste, let them be open like the lower half of a mince pie. Fill them with the Spinach and cap each with buttered egg. Eg'g’S with Spinach.—Fry some squares or cushions of bread, cut rather thick. Coat them thickly with the Spinach puree, and lay a poached egg on the top of each. Spinach Souffles.—Prepare one pound of Spinach, rub it through a fine wire sieve, add the raw yolks of three eggs, a dust of pepper and a pinch of sugar, with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and the whites of the eggs whipped as stiff as possible. Mix all well together, pour into little paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. A few browned crumbs and some tiny morsels of butter should be sprinkled over the tops of the souffles before putting them into the oven. Another way is to prepare the Spinach as above and bake it in a fire-proof dish instead of in cases. Spinach Toasts.—Cut some slices of bread about two fingers in length, and as thin as possible. Take some cooked stewed Spinach, mix two yolks of eggs with it, lay it on the bread, pass a knife dipped in egg over the top of each slice, and fry them. Spinach Colouring’.—This is most useful for all green vegetable purees, especially for the winter puree of dried Green Peas, and should always be employed instead of grocers’ colour- ing. To make it it is only necessary to boil and chain a little Spinach, work it through a sieve, and then squeeze the green juice through a bit of muslin. It answers perfectly for soup made with Groult’s prepared Farine de petits pois. A pinch of sugar should be added. TOMATOES. Tomatoes should be cooked as simply as possible. It is a great mistake to spoil their delicate and peculiar flavour by stuffing them with onion and parsley, or to devil them with cayenne pepper and French mustard.363 TOMATOES Sir Henry Thompson recommends that Tomatoes, which he calls “ that delicions half fruit, half vegetable,” should be eaten raw. The peel, however, should never be swallowed. If the Tomatoes are to be eaten raw they should be sliced only when about to be served, for if they are cut up even half an hour before serving the juice and pulp will drain away and only the skeleton of the Tomato will remain. A little salt and pepper should be sprinkled over the Tomatoes, with a few drops of oil, cream, or melted butter. Tomatoes are excellent when roasted in the Dutch oven with a few bits of butter to prevent them from sticking to the pan. They will require twenty minutes to roast. They are equally good when grilled for ten minutes over a clear fire. Tomatoes can be plainly boiled, peeled when hot, and thickly sprinkled with breadcrumbs and a dusting of cheese. Or they can be gently stewed for half an hour, with a table- spoonful of butter added to their own juice. Tomato Puree is most useful for mixing with macaroni. It can be made by removing the seeds and boiling the Tomatoes till they are quite soft. Then rub them carefully through a hair sieve into a bowl with a wooden spoon. Pepper well with black pepper. Heat the Tomato pulp again and add a bit of butter and the yolk of an egg before it is mixed with the macaroni. The Italian Gonserva di pomi d’oro, or Tomato Jam, is very useful. Reduce a good quantity of the puree made as above in a saucepan over the fire, stirring it constantly till it becomes a thin paste. Season well with salt and pepper, add a little sugar, and, when all effervescence has quite ceased, bottle in wide-mouthed bottles. If securely corked and waxed the bottled conserve will keep well. A spoonful or two, thinned with a very little stock and with an ounce of butter worked into it and a little finely-grated cheese dusted over, can be added to macaroni. Or, without the cheese, the conserve can be used as sauce. Small bottles should be chosen, as when once opened the conserve is apt to get mouldy. Should it not be convenient to make Tomato Puree or Con- serve at home, Ponton’s French preparation can quite be recommended. It can be bought at all first-rate grocers.364 TOMATOES Baked Tomatoes.—Butter a baking-tin "well, and sprinkle it with a very little stock, using as little liquid as possible. Set the Tomatoes on the tin and cover them closely with a buttered paper. Put the tin in a moderate oven for ten minutes. The Tomatoes must only be heated through, and not overdone. They should look quite smooth and plump. If they become wrinkled the oven has been too hot, the tin not enough buttered, or the paper not close enough. American Broiled Tomatoes.—Choose large Tomatoes, slice them half an inch thick, and broil them for a few minutes on a small gridiron. Have ready in a cup some hot butter seasoned with pepper and salt, and mixed with half a teaspoon- ful of made mustard (not French mustard). As soon as the Tomatoes are done dip each slice in this mixture, and lay it on a hot dish. When all are dished heat what remains of the season- ing to a boil, and pour it over the Tomatoes. Serve very hot. Tomatoes to be Eaten Cold.—Take some ripe Tomatoes, equal sized, cut a round hole and scoop out a portion of the middle, fill in with cold minced chicken and mayonnaise sauce, put some aspic in the dish, and serve the Tomatoes on round pieces of fried bread, cold. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'] This dish is prettier if some Tomato puree shaped in little moulds is arranged round it, each mould resting on a base of aspic jelly, with more aspic between them. Always use a silver spoon if the inside of Tomatoes has to be scooped out. “Wyvern’s” Cold Tomato Savoury.—Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt over a low fire, and add a dessert- spoonful of finely-minced onion; fry gently for five minutes, and stir in a pound of ripe Tomatoes of a good colour cut up into small pieces. Keep the fire low, stirring to prevent catching, and seasoning with salt, pepper, mace, and finely- powdered basil. When the Tomatoes have been cooked to a pulp mix in with them three-quarters of an ounce ©f soaked gelatine, and keep this well stirred until it is thoroughly dissolved. Now pass the whole through a hair sieve, putting the liquid that comes through into a dish in which it can spread and lie a quarter of an inch deep. If set over ice this will soon become firm, and can then be stamped into rounds with an inch“ WYVERN’S ” COLD TOMATO SAVOURY 365 and a half cutter. Arrange these for the present on a flat dish while yon melt all the pieces and set the liquid again, stamping it into little rounds the size of a shilling. Have ready some little moulds of anchovy cream. To make this, take four hard- boiled yolks of egg, twelve fillets of anchovy, and two table- spoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce; pound, pass all through a hair sieve, add a gill of diluted aspic, fill the little bouchee-moulds, and let this set. The twelve moulds ought previously to have been lined with melted aspic jelly about an eighth of an inch thick, and kept on ice. Now lay a little mould of anchovy cream on each larger round of tomato, put a little tomato button on the top of each, arrange the little moulds on a flat dish with watercress as a garnish, and serve. This very pretty savoury is called Boutons rouges a la Bolonaise. Tomatoes (grown out of doors) which do not ripen in the autumn are very good stewed, as recommended for ripe Toma- toes. An earthenware dish is best for stewing Tomatoes, ripe or unripe, and they should be served in it. TURNIPS. Turnips cooked by themselves should be young, so that the outer rind has not become hard. If the Turnips are young only just the outside should be carefully removed; the Turnips should not be pared or divided, but cooked whole. If they are much pressed they lose their flavour. Young Turnips should be boiled fast in boiling salted water for twenty minutes. Mashed Turnips,—Boil as directed above, and at the end of twenty minutes try with a fork if the Turnips are done. Drain them, and press them with a wooden presser, or the back of a large wooden spoon, on the back of a plate, but be careful not to press them very dry. Beat them with a wooden spoon through a colander. Never rub them through a sieve; if you do the Turnips will not be mashed but will become a puree. Put the mashed Turnips into a stewpan with three ounces of butter, a little salt, a teaspoonful of white pepper, and if possible two tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix thoroughly, add more cream if possible. Make the mashed Turnips very hot, and serve heaped up in a hot vegetable dish. In the366 TURNIPS North of England and in Scotland the large yellow Orange Jelly Turnip is much used for this dish. Puree Of Turnips.—For this dish the Turnips should be cut into small pieces, and put to steep in cold water. Then put them into a stewpan with three ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of white pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt. When the Turnips are soft rub them through a sieve. Take a table- spoonful of broth, and with it wash out the pan in which the Turnips were cooked. Add this to the Puree, and serve very hot. Glazed Turnips, or Navets Glaces,—If possible use Turnips so young that they can be cooked whole. But if this cannot be, trim the Turnips into the shape of pointed cones, twelve in number. Blanch them for five minutes in boiling salt and water. Drain them, and set them upright in a deepish pan. Add half an ounce of butter melted in the saucepan, two ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, and three-quarters of a pint of good broth. Let them simmer very gently for about forty minutes. When the Turnips are nearly done put the pan on a brisk fire to reduce the sauce to a glaze. Boll the Turnips about in the sauce, but be very careful not to break them. Take them very gently out of the pan, dish them, and pour the glazed sauce over them. Turnips with Chestnuts.—Choose young mild Turnips, if possible so young that they need not be divided. Blanch them in boiling water, and drain them on a sieve. Meanwhile stir a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of pounded sugar unceasingly in a saucepan over the fire till it gets brown, and shake two tablespoonfuls of flour into it. Add some boiling broth and an ounce of glaze, stir the mixture till quite smooth and boiling. Put in the Turnips, together with a little salt, cover the pan, and stew them till soft. Take a pound of chest- nuts, peel them, boil them in broth with a little butter, sugar, and salt till they are soft and mealy. Mix them among the Turnips. The sauce should stick to the Turnips ; if not sweet enough add a little more sugar. This is a really excellent German dish. Turnips as eaten in Piedmont.—A three-parts grown Turnip answers for this dish, but it should not be older. Old Turnips are strong, almost rank in flavour, and very hard. Half boil the Turnip, and cut it in thin slices like half-crowns.TURNIPS AS EATEN IN PIEDMONT 367 Butter a pie-dish, put in the slices of Turnip, moisten with a little milk and a teacupful of weak broth. Season well with pepper and salt, cover with crust raspings, and then with grated cheese, and bake a golden brown in the oven. Turnips a la Mareehale,—[ Wyvern.]—Choose four four- ounce Turnips, pare, and cut them in slices about the thickness of a halfpenny; trim these in equal-sized rounds or ovals, drop them one by one into cold water, drain, and put them on a clean cloth to dry. Butter a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, set it over a low fire, lay in the Turnip slices, and move them about till they are turning a pale gold colour. Now arrange them in layers in a buttered fire-proof dish, and dust each with grated Parmesan. When the dish is full moisten the whole with Sauce Milanaise, cover the surface with cheese, and pour the butter from the saute-pan over it. Push the dish into a moderate oven and hake till it is coloured and you can easily pass a skewer through the slices of Turnip. Serve in the dish laid on a napkin. For Sauce Milanaise see page 131. Boiled Turnips.—Choose very small Turnips—the round Early Snowball variety is the best—boil them till tender, and serve in a good white sauce. Mrs. C. W. Earle recommends for this, milk boiled till it thickens, into which a little butter and cream has been stirred. Kohl Bahi is often used instead of Turnips, though it really is partly a cabbage and partly a Turnip. The root appears above the ground, and Kohl Rabi, the Brassica oleracea Gaulo- rapa of botanists and gardeners, does not, like Turnips, suffer from drought, and is seldom injured by frost. The Early Vienna sorts, both purple and white, should find a place in all vegetable gardens. Kohl Rabi should be cooked like Turnips, and, as with Turnips, it is most important to eat it when young. Turnip Tops.— “ While yet the white frost sparkles over the ground And daylight just peeps from the misty blue sky, In yonder green fields with my basket I’m found— Come buy my sweet Turnip-tops, Turnip-tops buy ! Sadly cold are my fingers, all drench’d with the dew, For the sun has scarce risen the meadows to dry, And my feet have got wet with a hole in my shoe, Come haste then, and buy my sweet Turnip-tops, buyTURNIPS 363 While you are asleep with your bed-curtains drawn, On pillows of down, in your chambers so high, I tript, with the first rosy beam of the morn, To cull the green tops: Come my Turnip-tops buy ! Then with the few halfpence or pence I can earn, A loaf for my poor mammy’s breakfast I’ll buy, And to-morrow again little Ann shall return With Turnip-tops green and fresh-gathered to cry.” Jane Taylor’s verses are now as little known as Turnip-tops are cried in tlie streets of London. Yet Turnip-tops gathered in February and March, and made into a puree like Spinach, are excellent. (The young leaves of Beetroot can be cooked in the same way, and really young nettles make a good puree.) When Turnips begin to run to seed take the stalks as far as they will easily break downwards, peel them, tie them in bundles, and boil them like Asparagus. TRUFFLES AND MORELS. Truffles are found in many parts of England, but they are most 'abundant in the southern counties, particularly in the chalky soils and under the beech woods of Wiltshire and Berk- shire. English Truffles soon lose their flavour’, and should be eaten at once. They are excellent when freshly taken out of the ground and roasted like Potatoes. For more elaborate cooking the Truffles should be scmbbed with a hard brush in order to get the grit and earth out of the crevices of their wrinkled and tough skins. After this is done the outer skin (which is of no use) must be peeled off, and the Truffles must be put into a small saucepan, covered either with stock or with equal parts of chicken broth and marsala, with an ounce of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little finely- minced shallot. Cover the pan closely and let the Truffles simmer till tender. This may take fifteen minutes or more; when they are done they will yield to pressure. Drain on a cloth, and serve the Truffles on a hot folded napkin. Keep the sauce for flavouring, and hand pats of butter with the Truffles.369 TRUFFLES AND MORELS French and Italian Truffles are larger than the English kinds, but their price when fresh is as a rule prohibitory. Foreig'n Truffles cost from twenty-five to fifty shillings a pound, and only from eight to twelve go to a pound. Preserved foreign Truffles are generally used, but their taste differs little from that of cork. It is far better to use English Mushrooms, which can be obtained fresh and full of flavour at all seasons and at reasonable prices. Morels,—This fungus is often found in English woods, but it is not often seen on English tables. It grows, like a mush- room, on a stalk, but the hood or hat is very much wrinkled, and varies in colour from pale yellow to ash-grey. In Germany Morels are considered a great delicacy. It is important never to gather them when they are wet, and they are best when eaten fresh, although they are often dried for future use. Morels can be cooked in any way suitable to mushrooms, but they are particularly good when stewed in cream. For this, take off the stalks, cut the Morels in half, and wash them in several waters, as it is impossible to get the grit out of the little wrinkles in any other way. Put the Morels and their stalks in a saucepan with a little butter, season with salt, pepper, a bunch of herbs, and a little minced parsley. Toss them over the stove, moisten with some good broth, and set the Morels to simmer over a slack fire. Beat up two eggs in cream, take out the bunch of herbs, add the cream, off the fire, to the Morels, and serve at once. Mushrooms are cooked in this way in Germany. VEGETABLE MARROW. It is sometimes thought that Vegetable Marrows should only be cultivated for the beauty of their colour and of their foliage. But this opinion might be modified if Vegetable Marrows were eaten when quite young. They should be gathered when the size of a very large egg ; in fact, if fairly well grown they cannot be used too young, before the seeds are formed. When Vegetable Marrows are cooked quite in a young state they need not be peeled; it is better to boil them fast in salted boiling water for a quarter of an hour and to serve them whole. Maitre d’hdtel sauce or Parmesan cheese sauce is good with37° VEGETABLE MARROW young Vegetable Marrows when served hot; oil and vinegar should he used when they are served cold. Vegetable Marrows when not quite young must be peeled, and the seeds must be removed. But they should be cut as little as possible, so as to preserve the flavour. When once cut the whole of a Marrow should be cooked and eaten, or it will mildew. Vegetable Marrows are never fibrous, and can easily be mashed without beating them through a colander. Or they can be steamed after peeling, cut into fillets, and fried in batter. Or the fillets can be baked in layers in a pie-dish, with grated cheese strewed between each layer, and a little melted butter. The topmost layer should be well covered with grated cheese, and browned in the oven. A French way of serving Courges a la Moelle, or Vegetable Marrows, is to cut each Marrow in half, scooping out the seeds, sprinkling it with salt, and then leaving it till all the water has drained from it. Each half is then fried in oil, filled with a stuffing made of breadcrumbs, minced parsley, and a little chopped onion, moistened with good broth or milk, and set to brown in the oven. Large Marrows must be baked, as they are so watery. Young Marrows are best boiled with the peel on, and with the lid of the pan off. When boiled the peel can be removed, and the Marrows dressed in any of the ways recommended for Auber- gines. Indeed, some writers seem to imagine that Aubergine is the French name for Vegetable Marrow. Marrows are in season from the middle of August till October. WATERCRESS. Watercress makes an excellent puree cooked like Spinach, and is a good and uncommon salad. But it needs very careful picking, as insects lodge in the wrinkles of the leaves, especially at the back. Watercress can, if constantly watered, be grown in a garden in a shady spot, but it is not nearly so good in flavour as when grown in a clear running stream. Mud ruins it, but in a shallow running stream the water will not often entirely freeze over, and Watercress can be gathered nearly all through the year. In Cornwall Stewed Watercresses are eateu with boiledWATERCRESS 37i chicken, or as a vegetable by themselves. Lay the Watercresses in strong salt and water, pick them carefully, wash them well, and stew them in water for ten minutes. Then drain and chop them, return them to the stewpan with a bit of butter, some pepper and salt, and stew till tender. Just befoi’e serving put in a. little delicate vinegar. Serve sippets of fried bread, or Wyvern’s shortbread biscuits, with the Watercresses. VEGETABLES—PART III. PICKLED VEGETABLES. Gherkins.—Gherkins, the cornichons of French cookery, are a small form of Cucumber. They are pickled in salt and vinegar (foreign cooks add garlic, tarragon, capsicums, and cloves), and used, cut in thin rings or slices, as a sharp flavouring. A few of these rings, plainly pickled, give an excellent flavour to melted butter, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar should be added. For haddock or whiting this sauce is much to be recommended. Capers.—Capers, the French capres, are the buds of the Caper shrub. They are only used in a preserved state, like Gherkins, for although the Caper is tolerably hardy in the South of England it- is only cultivated as an ornamental shrub. The small Capers imported from the South of France are the best. For Caper Sauce see page 178. Cepes.—These young shoots of the vine may be good when eaten fresh in Southern Europe. But when imported they are hard and tasteless, and it is waste of money to buy them. MACEDOINE OF FRESH VEGETABLES. Boil the vegetables lightly, and be careful not to over-cook them. Choose equal quantities of four separate vegetables, and boil them separately. They are spoilt for a Macedoine if they are boiled together. The vegetables must not be mashed, but they must be quite distinct in little heaps. If possible, have two green vegetables in a Macedoine, such as peas and asparagus, or French beans and flageolets. The other vegetables can be B B 2372 MACEDOINE OE FRESH VEGETABLES carrot, young turnip, celeriac, Jerusalem artichokes, or Japanese artichokes, cut into small dice. These vegetables, boiled separately, and then gently heated in sauce blonde (see page 130) in the bain-marie, form an excellent centre for a dish of cutlets, or, if served cold, for a dish of cold fillets of sole masked with sauce blonde. Or, for a cold dish, mayonnaise may be used instead of sauce blonde. The great point is the separate cooking of the vegetables ; they must be quite tender, and yet not pulpy. Of course, cooked vegetables which have already been served can be used, and if skilfully treated thev make an excellent Macedoine. Little heaps of Macedoine are a great addition to a salad if it is served round cold chicken or cold fish. Tinned Vegetables.—Vegetables preserved in tins or glasses are extremely useful, particularly at those times of the year when fresh Vegetables cannot be procured. Only the best French Vegetables should be used, and they ought to be pro- cured from a first-rate shop. Tinned Vegetables do not require actual cooking, but they should never be sent up hard. This is especially to be avoided with peas, which are too often sent up, whether in soup or as a garnish, as hard as bullets. Wyvern recommends the use of the liquid in which the Vegetables have been preserved, as an addition to the sauce or puree prepared with them, but many people do not like it. In any case, whether the liquid is used or not, the Vegetables must be care- fully freed from it. As soon as the tin is opened, empty the Vegetables gently into a large perforated strainer, drain off the liquid, pour freshly-drawn cold water over the Vegetables, put them into a clean saucepan, and set the saucepan in the bain- marie. As the Vegetables warm, add half an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of sugar. When hot the Vegetables are ready, and can be dressed in any way liked. Artichoke-bottoms and French Beans can be served in any of the ways recommended for them when fresh. Flageolets are very good a la maitre d’hotel, a la poulette, or a la creme. Whole Asparagus is not to be recommended as a tinned Vegetable, but Asparagus Points are excellent. Be very care- ful not to break the points in turning them out of the tin and draining them. They must be handled as little as possible, andTINNED VEGETABLES 3 73 are best put straight into the soup or sauce for which they are wanted as soon as they have been heated in the bain-marie. Sauce d’Argenteuil is particularly good with Asparagus Points (see page 358). Or they may be set in a border of aspic round a chaud-froid, or mixed with mayonnaise in a dish of cold masked fillets of chicken. Three kinds of Peas are preserved in France. Of these the Petits Pois fins and tres fins do not require more cooking than that already recommended for all Tinned Vegetables, but the Petits Pois gros are apt to be hard and are best made into a puree. For this, bruise the Peas when they have been thoroughly wanned, and pass them through a sieve. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small sauce- pan, work into it half an ounce of flour ; when this roux is well cooked, but not coloured, stir in the liquid drained from the Peas, let it boil once, and if it is too thick dilute it with a little milk. With this moisten the pounded peas, season with pepper and salt and a dust of sugar, and serve as a garnish for cutlets, •quenelles, etc. \_Wyvern.~\ Tinned Vegetables answer perfectly for a Macedoine (see page 372). For this they should be gently heated in a good sauce such as bechamel, poulette, ox1, if liked brown, espagnole. Or the Macedoine can be allowed to cool, and then be served as a Salade Cuite (see page 378). SALADS. It was a favourite saying of John Evelyn, the author of the “ Sylva,” that he did not care for fish or meat when “ a well-drest and excellent Sallet was before him.” His last work, written in 1699, when he was nearly eighty, was a treatise on the thirty-five varieties of plants which London, the Royal gardener, recommended for Sallets. Evelyn’s direc- tions for Salad-dressing might well be followed now. He deprecates the practice of washing the Salad, and the use of much vinegar, but he explains that the Salad cannot be too much worked and stirred, until every leaf is equally moistened. The French emigres who fled to England during the troubled years between 1790 and 1804 gave a great impetus to Salad making in this country. Two Frenchmen made large incomesSALADS 374 in London by going about to dress Salads. One charged a guinea, the other half-a-guinea, for each visit, and both went about in their own carriages. But in later days Salads as well as vegetables went out of fashion in England. A great dandy, in the reign of George the Fourth, was fond of saying that he could always tell if a man was a gentleman by his choice of vegetables. If he ate only truffles, morels, mushrooms, and green peas in them first week, he was a man of birth and culture ; but if he ate older peas or any other vegetables he was undoubtedly coarse in nature and vulgar in mind. This fine gentleman would probably have considered an eater of Salads only fit to associate with Nebuchadnezzar when he lost his reason, “was driven from men, and ate grass like an ox.” As to Salad-dressing, the old Spanish saying holds good still. “ Be a Sage with the salt, a Miser with the vinegar, a Spend- “ thrift with the oil, and a Maniac with the working of the “ dressing.” Sydney Smith thought more of his rhyme than of his Salad when he wrote his famous recipe. He advised the use of far too much vinegar, and even suggested anchovy sauce. Yet Sydney Smith prided himself on his Salad. He says (Memoir, vol. i, p. 425) :—“ Our forte in the culinary line is our “ Salads. ‘ Saba ’ (his eldest daughter) always dresses them “ after my recipe. I have put it into verse. Taste it, and, if “ you like it, I will give it you. I was not aware how much “ it had contributed to my reputation till I met Lady at “ Bowood, who begged to be introduced to me, saying she had “ so long wished to know me. I was of course highly flattered. “ till she added, ‘ For, Mr. Smith, I have heard so much of “ ‘ your recipe for Salads that I was most anxious to obtain it “ ‘ from you.’ Such and so various are the sources of fame ! “ To make this condiment, your poet begs The pounded yellow of two hard-boil’d eggs; Two boil'd potatoes, pass’d through kitchen sieve, Smoothness and Softness to the Salad give. Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, half-suspected, animate the whole. Of mordant mustard add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment that bites so soon. And deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault To add a double quantity of salt.SALADS .175 Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca brown, And twice with vinegar procured from town. Then, lastly, o’er the flavour’d compound toss A magic soupijon of anchovy sauce. Oh green and glorious! Oh herbaceous treat 1 ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he’d turn his fleeting soul, And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl 1 Serenely full, the epicure would say Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.” For Salads tlie best oil, in small flasks, should be used, and the best French wine vinegar. The quantity of oil must depend on the quantity of Salad, but vinegar should be used very sparingly. Above all things the Salad should be fresh. In the country it should be cut just before the gardeners go off work at twelve, and again at six. For a plain Lettuce Salad take one large Cos Lettuce or two small ones. Pull the leaves off with your hand, reject any that are bruised or discoloured, wipe any that are dirty, but use all the clean leaves as they are. In rainy weather some leaves may be muddy and may have to be washed and drained, but avoid this if possible. Put the leaves into a basin, and drip the oil over them till they begin to glitter, working them about with the wooden spoon and fork, and turning them over and over. This is what French people call “fatiguer la salade.” Then add, drop by drop, a little vinegar; from fifty to sixty drops is ample for a large Lettuce. Turn the leaves over and over, and then lift the salad into the salad-bowl with the fork and spoon. You will find some water at the bottom of the basin which must be thrown away. It would make the Salad sodden and flabby if left with it, and this is the reason for the pre- liminary mixing of the Salad in a basin. Scatter a teaspoonful of finely-minced tarragon leaves over the Salad, and, if liked, the same quantity of minced chives or Onion Threads. A little salt and a dust of pepper can be added. Some people prefer a Ravigote scattered over Salads ; that is, equal parts of finely- minced tarragon, chives, bumet and chervil. Many persons like a Salad plainly served in the bowl, and the sauce handed in a boat. For this sauce put the very hard-SALADS 376 boiled yolks of two eggs into a slop-basin, with a teaspoonful of French mustard, a scanty saltspoonful of salt, a pinch only of pepper, and a teaspoonful of minced shallot (if liked). Bruise these with a wooden spoon, and work them to a paste with a little salad oil. Add oil by degrees till your paste is about the consistency of batter, then toss into it one by one the raw yolks of two eggs ; continue the working, adding oil, till you have about three-quarters of a pint of sauce thick enough to coat the spoon pretty thickly. Add a dessertspoonful of tarragon or other vinegar, and mix it thoroughly with the rest. The sauce will become creamy at once. Dip a lettuce leaf in and taste if your sauce wants a little more oil or vinegar. Strain through a small tin strainer into the sauce-boat so as to get rid of lumps and the little bits of onion. Set the boat on ice till wanted. \Wyvern.'] Cream can be used instead of the oil. Madame’s Salad,—Put the yolk of a fresh egg into a basin. Beat into it a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of freshly-ground pepper, and a teaspoonful of French mustard. Add the lettuce leaves and some garden cress, drop in oil till the leaves glitter, add a small teaspoonful of vinegar. Ton will probably want from two to three tablespoonfuls of oil. Work the leaves about till they have absorbed all the dressing, and lift the Salad quickly into the salad-bowl. If the lettuce is quite dry the Salad may be mixed in the bowl. Potato Salad,—Use Potatoes which have been steamed, and choose a waxy sort. When cold cut them in slices, and dress as for a plain Lettuce Salad. Add some thin strips of celery, and sprinkle the Potato slices well with finely-minced parsley, tarragon, and Onion Threads. Salad Dressing’ for Potato Salad.—(Family Recipe.)— The yolks of four fresh eggs beaten up with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Add a quarter of a pint of cream whisked in hot water till it becomes thick, a dust of salt and a dust of pepper. Add a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and the same of tarragon and of chervil. Set to get cold. Sir Erskine May’s Salad,—Small pyramids of thin slices of potato (boiled and cooled before it is cut), beetroot, and377 SIR ERSKINE MAY’S SALAD cucumber, alternately arranged. For the sauce take four table- spoonfuls of cream, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar (or rather more if liked), and two tablespoonfuls of oil, added drop by drop. Use no eggs, and stir only one way. Pour the sauce round (not over) the pyramids in a soup plate or small dish. Mixed Salad.—Use any remains of cold vegetables, mix them with mayonnaise sauce. Place them inside a border of aspic jelly made with vegetable stock, and set on ice till wanted. If made with the tinned French Macedoine of vegetables be careful to empty the tin into a strainer so that all the liquid may drain off. A gill of mayonnaise sauce will be enough. Tomato Salad.—Make this like Lettuce Salad, peeling the Tomatoes and slicing them just before adding the Salad dressing. Sir Henry Thompson calls this the Prince of Salads. American Tomato Salad.—Take, for twelve Tomatoes, four hard-boiled eggs, one raw egg, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of cayenne, a pinch of sugar, a tablespoonful of salad oil, two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, and as much vinegar as will make the sauce creamy. Rub the hard yolks to a smooth paste, adding the salt, cayenne, sugar, mustard, and oil. Beat the raw egg to a froth and stir it in. Add the vinegar last of all. Slice the Tomatoes a quarter of an inch thick, cover them with the mixture, and set on ice till wanted. Serve ice-cold. N-B.—Small moulds of Tomato Puree are pretty when cold fish is garnished with lettuce or cucumber salad. For these allow a pound of Tomatoes, and when the puree begins to look pulpy mix in an ounce and a half of moistened gelatine. Work this with the puree till it is perfectly dissolved, then pass all through a hair sieve. The puree can be set in small dariole moulds and turned out when required. Or it can be poured on a plate, left to get firm and then cut into shapes with vegetable cutters. Salad Dressing1.—(Family Recipe.)—Mix the yolk of one egg> one teaspoonful of unmade mustard, and a dust of salt into a teacupful of cream. Drop in a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Mix well together, and hand in a wide-mouthed bottle. Orange Salad.—This is good with roast game or poultry, hot or cold, also with cold salmon or trout. Take four Valencia and two Seville Oranges, peel them, slice them into thinSALADS 378 l’ings, and take out the pips. Arrange them in circles in a dish, letting each slice overlap the edge of the next. Squeeze two small lemons over the oranges, add a few drops of vinegar, a little white pepper, and a dust of salt. Some people add a dessertspoonful of salad oil. The oranges can be served in quarters if preferred, all white skin being removed. Old-fashioned Winter Salad.—Arrange thin slices of cooked Beetroot round a soup plate. Fill the centre with pulled, uncooked Celery mixed with mayonnaise sauce. Salade Cuite.—Arrange little heaps of cold cooked vege- tables in a salad bowl over ice. Sprinkle them with a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and moisten thoroughly with cream well iced. Oil and vinegar may be used, but the Salad will not be nearly so good. Or mix a gill of good mayonnaise with some of the vegetables, and arrange the different little heaps round it. Sir Henry Thompson’s Salade Cuite.—Take four ounces of carrots, two ounces of turnips, four ounces of small asparagus, four ounces of peas, and the same quantity of French beans. Boil each of these vegetables separately in about a quart of water, with a teaspoonful of salt. When cooked strain them on a cloth; let them cool, and then place the French beans at the bottom of a salad-bowl. Arrange the other vegetables in little heaps around, first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then the asparagus, so as to alter- nate the colours, and so on again. The rest of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and sprinkled with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (fresh tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives). Serve with an oil and vinegar sauce in a boat, or let them be added from the cruet-stand by each guest according to taste. Sir Henry Thompson advises the simple slicing of these vegetables, instead of cutting them into innumerable small cubes as is the fashion of French chefs. As French Beans and Asparagus are not in season together one of them must be a preserved vegetable. Sir Henry Thompson’s Salad.—Cross-cut the lettuce or endive two or three times in a roomy salad bowl, placing one saltspoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper in a table-379 SIR HENRY THOMPSON’S SALAD spoon, which spoon is to be filled three times consecutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments have been thoroughly mixed and at the same time distributed over the Salad. Next, toss the Salad lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering meantime a little finely- chopped fresh tarragon and chervil with a few atoms of chives over the whole, so that sparkling green particles spot, as with a pattern, every portion of the leafy surface. Lastly, but only immediately before serving, one small tablespoonful of mild French or, better still, Italian red-wine-vinegar, is to be sprinkled over all, followed by another tossing of the Salad. This Salad is intended for five or six persons. Sir Henry Thompson also suggests a Salad of cold boiled asparagus with mayonnaise sauce. Or, uncooked celery cut in rings with small slices of cooked beetroot. Or, slices of cooked potato, beetroot, and boiled celeriac well sprinkled with parsley and chervil and a few atoms of tarragon. Or, Japanese arti- chokes each cut in two, either raw or boiled for five minutes, mixed with small discs of boiled beef and slices of raw celery. Salad a la Belle Alliance.—Seakale Salad is supposed to be peculiar to All Souls’ College, Oxford, where the secret of making it is jealously preserved. The All Souls’ salads, which are invariably made by the junior Fellows, are indeed unrivalled, but this Salad of Wyvern's is nearly equal to an All Souls’ Sea- kale Salad. It makes an excellent luncheon dish. Take from four' to six ounces of cold cooked chicken, and from two to three ounces (half the quantity) of cold cooked tongue. Cut both meats into julienne-like strips. Boil and set to get cold a quarter bundle of Seakale, then cut it into strips, using a silver dessert knife. Take a silver or china dish, make a bed at the bottom of it with some of the Seakale, over that arrange a layer of chicken and tongue, then more Seakale, sprinkling- over each layer a seasoning of pepper and salt. Finish the arrangement in dome-shape, with strips of Seakale outside, and moisten the whole with mayonnaise sauce. Keep the Salad as cold as possible. Garnish round the base with halves of hard-boiled eggs, turned olives, and little heaps of broken jelly. (I am bound to say that tyyvern adds to the chicken and tongue3S0 SALADS the contents of a very small tin of foie gras, freed from all fat, and cnt up into slices.) Lamb’s Lettuce, op Corn Salad, the M&che of French cooks, ought to he grown in every garden, besides, as Mrs. Earle says, “ in seasonless London everything is always to be bought.” The botanical name of Corn Salad is Valerianella olitoria. It is an annual, and in gardens should be sown four times a year at least, and watered if the weather is dry. Many people think Macke, like Flageolets and Haricots, is a product peculiar to France. But nothing is more easily grown, and it is a most valuable Salad in early spring when other Salading is scarce. In fact, many seedsmen call Corn Salad Christmas Salad. Mustard and Cress.—Mustard and Cress, which are so much needed for small Salad and for Sandwiches, suffer from being grown together. Cress grows much slower than Mustard, and should be sown three days earlier, so as to have both in perfection together. Both should be sown as thickly as possible in shallow boxes. Or, if grown in the garden, their places should be often changed, as if the new roots of Mustard and Cress touch those of a previous crop they spoil at once. Mrs. C. W. Earle has an excellent plan for Spring Salads. Writing in May, she says: “All this last month we have been “ eating the thinnings of seedling Lettuces as Salad, and they “ are most delicious. All kinds of Lettuce seem to eat equally “ well; they are grown in boxes in a frame. I first thought of “ eating them by seeing that they were thrown away to give “ room for those that were going to be planted out. I now “ purposely grow them in extra quantities and in succession, so “ that my Salads may never fall short. They make infinitely “ better Salad than the tough little brown Cos Lettuces grown “ with such care in frames all through the winter.” Stewed Haricot Beans, left to get cold, make an excellent winter Salad, mixed with tomatoes. Sir Henry Thompson says that the salad oil supplies the one nutritious element in which Haricots are deficient. They must be simmered for at least three hours. Salad of Cucumber with Tomatoes.—Peel and cut up a good-sized cucumber, not crosswise in the ordinary way butSALAD OF CUCUMBER WITH TOMATOES 381 in narrow strips a quarter of an inch wide and two long. Sprinkle with salt, drain off the moisture, and season with freshly-ground pepper. Sprinkle over all enough salad oil to moisten nicely, and a few drops of fine French vinegar. Let this lie while you cut up and squeeze through a sieve the moisture out of four tomatoes (about half a pound). Catch this liquid in a bowl and pour it over the cucumber, sprinkling the surface with a dessertspoonful of finely-minced Ravigote—i.e., equal parts of chives, chervil, tarragon, and burnet. A slice of white bread should be laid in each salad plate. [WyvernJ] Salads cannot be served too cold. The American fashion is to have a double salad bowl, and to fill the outer division with broken ice. These convenient bowls can now be purchased in London. Recipes for Chicken Salad, Lobster Salad, Crab Salad, and Prawn Salad will be found under their respective headings. Salmon Salad a la Parmentier,—Take a pound and half of cold cooked Salmon, peel off the skin, and cut the fish into neat pieces. Lay these on a dish, dust them over with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with salad oil and vinegar. Pre- pare a garnish of cooked fillets of potato, or use a dozen small ones the size of a plover’s egg (see Olive Potatoes). Make two gills of mayonnaise sauce, turning it pale green with the juice of the leaves of one bunch of watercress squeezed after boiling them for five minutes, draining, cooling, and drying them. Finish with a tablespoonful of very finely-minced chervil, chives, and tarragon. Arrange the pieces of salmon in a dome in the centre of a flat dish, mask with the sauce, and garnish round with a chain of the potatoes, and a few of the nicest leaves of a cos lettuce, torn (not cut) into small pieces. [_Wyvern.~\ Spinach colouring may be used instead of water- cress. A Salletine was one of the favourite dishes of the seventeenth century. This was made by putting cowslips, clove-gilly- flowers, elder flowers, and marigolds, in their seasons, into a bowl. A pickle was made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of white-wine-vinegar, and this was poured scalding hot over each pound of flowers. The Salletine was then closely covered, and eaten when quite cold.382 HERBS. Herbs, both fresb and dried, are a most important element in those flavours derived from tbe garden which are so in- finitely superior to those purchased from the grocer. Gardeners should therefore be induced to gather the herbs when at their best and before they floAver, instead of leaving them till the autumn, when the leaves are old and the stalks woody. Thyme, mint, and parsley can be grown in a shalloAv box during the winter quite as easily as mustard and cress, and of course fresh herbs are infinitely superior to those which have been dried. The herbs which are most useful in a garden are thyme, lemon thyme, mint, sage, chervil, tarragon, parsley, and chives. Sweet marjoram, burnet, winter savory, and sweet basil are all very useful. Herbs take little room, and require no attention after they are once sown. If a place can be found for a bush of rosemary and a small bay tree they Avill both be of use in flavouring. To those who have not gardens the excellent dried herbs sold by Messrs. Bruce & McCulloch, Covent Garden Market, or Messrs. Pannett & Sons, 342 Wandsworth Road, are strongly recommended. The herbs must be gathered in the early afternoon of a fine dry day. The leaves should be picked from the stalks and left to dry on white paper. It is better to put each sort into a Avide-mouthed bottle labelled with the name of the herb it contains. Herbs when hung up in bundles according to the old-fashioned plan get dusty and lose much of their flavour. Besides the separate bottles of dried herbs, Herb Powder for flavouring should ahvays be kept. A good English recipe for this is : A quarter of a pound of parsley, of lemon thyme, of sweet marjoram, of Avinter savory, and two ounces of sweet basil, all weighed before they are dried. Add two ounces of dried lemon peel, six bay leaves, and a quarter of an ounce of celery seed. Pound the lemon peel and celery seed separately, and then the herbs. Mix all together, pass through a fine sieve, and bottle the poAvder. It should be securely corked. Gouffe’s French recipe for Herb Seasoning, as adajfled by Wyvern, is also excellent, and the spice can be omitted if desired.383 HERBS Three ounces of dried thyme and of dried bay leaves, one ounce and a half of dried marjoram and of rosemary, three ounces of nutmeg or mace, three ounces of Paprika pepper, an ounce and a half of -whole black pepper, and half an ounce of Nepaul pepper. Pound all thoroughly in a mortar, and when ground to powder pass it through a fine sieve. Bottle it and cork it down securely. Be careful that no bits of stalk are left among the herbs. Gouffe’s Spiced Salt is made by mixing one ounce of his Herb Seasoning or Spiced Pepper with four ounces of salt. Herb Vinegars are very useful in salads, and are easily made. For Tarragon Vinegar gather a good bunch, say two handfuls, of fresh green tarragon, pick the leaves from the stalks, and let the leaves soak in a quart of French white-wine- vinegar for three weeks. It should be kept in a warm place. Then filter it through clean white blotting-paper, and bottle it for use. Celery Vinegar can be made in the same way, soaking a gill and a half of celery-seed in a quart of white-wine- vinegar. It is well to put these vinegars into half-pint bottles, so that only a small quantity should be used at a time. Cucumber parings make a delicate flavour for vinegar. For another vinegar bruise a teaspoonful of the seed of celery, of parsley, and of garden-cress, in half a pint of red-wine-vinegar, and add two small capsicums finely minced. Fried Parsley, so useful as a garnish, is often spoilt by being carelessly cooked. It ought to be quite crisp, and to look as green as when freshly gathered. Choose the nicest leaves, and pick off the little sprigs, being careful not to use the thick centre stalk. Do not wash the Parsley unless it is absolutely necessary, but if it must be washed shake each sprig till it is dry, and on no account rub or squeeze it. Fry the Parsley crisp in butter which is nearly, but not quite, at the boil. If the butter is too hot the Parsley will lose colour; if not hot enough the Parsley will be limp and sodden instead of crisp. In France Chervil, which is more hardy than Parsley, is often used as a garnish for cold meat. Herbs make the Fourniture of French Salads, and of Salads as they ought to be eaten here. Chives form an important part of all French Salads. Chives are a form of Garlic, butHERBS 3&4 much milder than any Onion. They are indigenous in England. Chives are extremely tender, and the leaves, finely-minced, are very useful. The Fourniture of a Salad is brought on a small plate if the Salad is mixed in the dining-room. This Fourniture in France is made of delicately-minced chervil, tarragon, chives, and the neglected pimpernel of our English fields. In England equal proportions of finely-minced chives, chervil, buraet, and tarragon, are used. Or, as sometimes is liked, very small spring onions, or Onion Threads, can be substituted for the chives. Whether the Salad is mixed in the dining-room or else- where, the Fourniture should be added at the last moment, and briskly stirred into the salad; a wooden spoon and fork should be used, in order to thoroughly amalgamate the Fourniture with the Salad. A variety of pot-herbs, added to a variety of fresh vege- tables, gives infinitely better flavour to dishes than any amount of artificial flavourings and grocers’ sauces. The French Bouquet Garni, and our own Bundle of Herbs or Bunch of Herbs, consist of a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and one bay leaf. Blanch the parsley, and fold it over the thyme and the bay leaf, being careful to tie the little bundle together with twine. In this way the Herbs are easily removed when they have served their purpose of flavouring. It is often a good plan to sew up Herbs in a bit of muslin, making a little bag. After long simmering the Herbs will have become absorbed in the broth, and only the muslin will need removal. It should be remembered that one measured teaspoonful of dried herbs is equal to one dessertspoonful of fresh herbs. A teaspoonful is reckoned equal to a quarter of an ounce dry measure, a dessertspoonful to half an ounce, a tablespoonful to one ounce. Herbs, if dried, should be measured when powdered and freed from all bits of stalk. If fresh, they should be measured when they have been finely minced.335 c c CHAPTER X. SANDWICHES AND FANCY BUTTERS. Sandwiches are among the smaller items of Cookery which have so greatly improved of late years, probably owing to their popularity at five o’clock tea. It is no longer thought that Sandwiches can be cut anyhow and by anybody, and that all that is required is to have slices of cold meat, coarsely smeared with mustard, laid between thick pieces of buttered bread, so that a hungry traveller who can get nothing else may be glad to eat them. Sandwiches should always be cut from yesterday’s loaf, and the loaf should be a tinned one and close in the grain. The bread should be cut an eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches long. The crust should be pared off the bread before the slices are cut, and it can then be used for raspings or bread- crumbs. If slices of meat are used every particle of skin and gristle must be removed, but pounded meat or puree of game is generally preferred. A small leaf of crisp young lettuce, or some mustard and cress, is a great improvement. If Sandwiches have to be cut some time before they are wanted, a damp cloth laid over them will keep them moist. If exposed to the air, or covered with a dish, Sandwiches dry up very quickly. When cheese is used the Sandwiches must not be prepared till they are wanted, as the cheese quickly loses its flavour. Mr. Senn, of the London National School of Cookery, uses a special butter for Sand- wiches which is infinitely better than plain butter. Special Sandwich Butter.—Weigh half a pound of butter and work it in a basin with a wooden spoon until soft; then add gently a gill of whipped cream, a little salt and mustard, and336 SANDWICHES place in a cold larder till required. This special butter keeps well for several days if put on ice. Ham Sandwiches.—Butter the slices of bread thinly, lay on each a thin slice of ham spread with a little freshly-mixed mustard. Place a second slice of buttered bread over each, and press the Sandwiches together firmly under a weight. Beef Sandwiches.—Prepare these like Ham Sandwiches, spreading each with a little horseradish sauce, as well as mustard. Chicken Sandwiches.—Use either slices of chicken and tongue, or the two pounded together. Spread the bread with mayonnaise sauce instead of butter. Add a lettuce leaf or some cress to each sandwich. Gladstone Sandwiches.—Use cold game for these. The slices of bread must be toasted, spread with mayonnaise sauce, and the sauce covered with finely-shred celery. Sportsman Sandwiches.—Cut some slices of white bread about a quarter of an inch thick, toast them lightly on both sides, split and butter them, lay between them some very thin slices of roast game, spread over the meat a little tartare sauce in which a little French mustard has been mixed, and press the Sandwiches together. Pack them in waterproof butter paper so as to keep them moist. Wash and dry a few leaves of cress, endive, or lettuce, wrap them in butter paper, and pack them with the Sandwiches. N.B.—All Sandwiches which have to be packed either for sportsmen or for travellers should be packed in butter paper. This paper is used for packing butter, and costs lid. per quire. Milan Sandwiches.—Prepare these like Gladstone Sand- Aviches, but use stiff tartare sauce instead of mayonnaise. Cheshire Sandwiches.—Make a smooth paste of equal parts of grated Cheshire Cheese and fresh butter, add a little mustard flour, and spread it on slices of brown bread. Lay on each a thin slice of cold boiled or roast beef without fat, cover with another slice of bread spread with the same paste, and press well together. Prince George Sandwiches.—Mince some cold game very finely, mix it with a little stiff mayonnaise and two chopped cooked mushrooms. Add enough melted glaze to form a smoothPRINCE GEORGE SANDWICHES 387 C C2 paste. Cut some large milk rolls into slices an eighth of an inch thick; butter these lightly. Spread half the slices with the minced game, cover each slice with the other half, and press the Sandwiches. Princess Sandwiches.—Pound some cooked chicken in a mortar; when thoroughly done add the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs, an ounce or more of grated cheese, a very little French mustard, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, enough salad oil (about a tablespoonful) to make the mixture moist. Season with salt and pepper, work all to a smooth paste, and pass it through a wire sieve. Butter the slices of bread very lightly, spread one with the paste, lay the other slice over it, and press well together. These Sandwiches are best spread on a round of bread and then cut out with an oval cutter about two inches long. Alexandra Sandwiches.—Mince some cold game finely, and add to it a little minced ham or tongue, and some minced cooked mushrooms. Melt an ounce of glaze in some good sauce, either domestic veloute or espagnole, mix the meat into it when hot, adding pepper and salt. Put all into a square mould, and set it on ice or in a cold place. Cut some small rolls into rounds the eighth of an inch thick, butter them, and lay a thin slice of the cold mince between each two rounds. Brown bread can be used if espagnole sauce has been chosen. Victoria Sandwiches.—Wash some anchovies quite free from oil, and fillet them, taking out the spines. Cut some hard- boiled eggs into thin rounds. Cut rounds of brown bread the eighth of an inch thick, butter them lightly. Lay on each alternate round a slice of egg, then a fillet of anchovy, and then a layer of cress. Put the other rounds on the top of these, and press the Sandwiches together. Do not add salt, as the anchovy has quite enough to supply the salt generally needed for the egg. Nelson Sandwiches.—Wash, scrape, and bone ten Gorgona anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a saltspoonful of curry powder, a dust of cayenne, and two tablespoonfuls of freshly-grated Parmesan cheese. Cut rounds of bread an eighth of an inch thick, butter them, lay the mixture between, and press the Sandwiches.SANDWICHES 333 Shrimp Sandwiches.—Pound some pickled Shrimps and their shells, throwing away the heads. Add a little butter, and pepper, but no salt. Spread this puree on brown bread and butter, cover with the other slices, and press as usual. Salmon Sandwiches.—Pound some cold Salmon, and add a little butter to make it moist. Spread some rounds of brown bread with rather stiff tartare sauce, lay the Salmon puree upon them, cover with shred lettuce or cress, and put the other round of bread spread with tartare sauce on the top. Press very lightly. Eg’g’ Sandwiches.—These are very useful for travelling, packed in butter paper. Boil some fresh eggs hard—that is, put them into fast boiling water and let them boil for fifteen minutes. Peel off the shells, cut the eggs into slices lengthwise. Place them between slices of bread and butter, and be careful to mix both salt and pepper into the butter before you spread it. Or pound the eggs, when cold and shelled, in a mortar, pounding white and yolk together. Add a little fresh butter, salt, pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Spread the mixture as usual on thin bread and butter, and press well. Salad Sandwiches.—Use shred lettuce, watercress, or mustard and cress, mix these lightly with mayonnaise sauce. Spread mayonnaise sauce on the bread instead of butter, but be careful not to use too much. Gruyere Cheese Sandwiches. — Spread the slices of bread and butter with a little French mustard, cover them thickly with freshly-grated Gruyere cheese. Dust with white pepper and a little cayenne, but add no salt. Press the Sandwiches well. Cheese and Celery Sandwiches.—Mix freshly-grated Parmesan cheese with an ounce of butter or a gill of whipped cream till it becomes a thick paste. Spread this on the bread, and cover it with celery shred very fine. Tit-Bit Sandwiches.—Cut with a pastry cutter small rounds of bread, alternately brown and white. Spread them with lobster puree, and sprinkle a little mustard and cress over it. Cover with a second round of bread, cut rather smaller than the lower one. Shrimp Puree answers admirably for these little Sand- wiches.389 ROLLED SANDWICHES Rolled Sandwiches.—Pound in a mortar a quarter of a pound of cooked chicken or turkey, two ounces of cooked tongue or ham freed from skin and fat, an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce, and from four to six tablespoon - fuls of fine white breadcrumbs. When the mixture is smooth add pepper and salt, and pass it through a sieve. Sprinkle a few breadcrumbs lightly on a pastry board, take a small portion of the mixture and pat it out with a knife dipped in hot water. Make it two inches and a half long, and an inch and a half wide. Trim the edges and raise it carefully from the board with the knife, rolling it over as it is raised. If the mixture is too moist more breadcrumbs must be again pounded into it. The rolls should not be too moist, but if they are too dry they will break in the rolling. Dish them on a bed of cress, alternately with Green Sandwich Rolls.—For these pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a quarter of a pound of butter, and six sprigs of watercress and six of parsley, blanched in scalding water for five minutes and then drained. Then add a little pepper and salt, two or three tablespoonfuls of white bread- crumbs, and when the mixture is quite smooth form the rolls as in the previous recipe. Traveller’s Rolls.—Make some puff paste (see Chapter XVII) or use the trimmings left from pies or patties, being of course careful that there is no sugar in it. Line patty pans, or form the paste into hollow patties, fill them with raw rice to keep the shape, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Let them get cold. Fill the cases with pounded cooked chicken moistened with mayonnaise, and well mixed with mustard and cress, slices of cucumber, or shred lettuce. Or make dinner rolls the size and shape of a small hen’s egg, scoop out the crumb, and fill as above. Tomato Sandwiches.—Prepare these just before they are wanted. Skin the Tomatoes, take out the seeds, cut them in slices with a very sharp knife, and lay them between slices of un- buttered bread. Tomato puree may be used, but fresh Tomatoes make the best Sandwiches. Sardine and Tomato Sandwiches.—Bone and pound the sardines, adding a little cayenne and white pepper, and pass through a wire sieve. Spread the paste on slices of bread, and39° SANDWICHES cover with a slice of Tomato. A squeeze of lemon is often liked. Cucumber Sandwiches.—Pare the Cucumber, cut it in very thin slices, and lay them between slices of white bread and butter. Any of the varieties of butter given on page 392 make good Sandwiches. The bread should be cut in rounds with a vegetable cutter, and the upper round should be slightly smaller than the lower one, so as to show the colour of the butter. These Sand- wiches look pretty arranged alternately, brown and white bread being used, and a little cress placed in the middle of the dish. Barrington Sandwiches.—Butter some moderately thick slices of a good tin loaf, and cut them into medium-sized rounds. Lay across them, in pieces cut quite narrow, some breast of cold chicken, a quarter of an anchovy, and a thin shred of green gherkin. These form narrow bars of green, white, and red across the slices of bread. Trim the edges, and serve on a plate one laid partly over the other, like cutlets. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'] Hot Sandwiches.—Cut some large slices from a tin new loaf of brown bread, divide them in half, take off the crust, butter them, cover them with very thin shavings of mild cheese, such as Cheddar, sprinkle them with cayenne, and make them into Sandwiches. The cheese shavings should lie a quarter of an inch thick. Place the Sandwiches on a baking sheet in a moderate oven until the cheese has melted. Serve as hot as possible. Or melt the cheese and put it between two slices of well- buttered brown bread toast. Curried Cheese Sandwiches,—Take every scrap of rind off half a pound of mild cheese. Cut the cheese into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar with three ounces of butter and one dessertspoonful of curry paste. Cut some thin slices of bread, and make Sandwiches of the mixture. This is a good way of using odd pieces of cheese. If put into a jar and covered with a layer of clarified butter the Curried Cheese will keep for several weeks. Sweet Sandwiches.—Sweet Sandwiches are generally pre- ferred long and narrow—say four inches long and an inch wide. They are better without butter, and the jam or whatever is spread upon them should be spread very thinly. MarmaladeSWEET SANDWICHES 391 makes one of the best Sweet Sandwiches, but any jam or fruit jelly can be used. Heather honey, with a squeeze of lemon, makes an excellent Sandwich spread on Hovis or other brown bread. The bread for Sweet Sandwiches should be cut rather thicker than for Meat Sandwiches. Stale sponge cake, with thin slices of orange from which all peel, pips, and pith have been removed, makes a good Sandwich if the orange is sliced shortly before being used. Oat-cake (see Chapter XX) cut into long fingers is excellent spread with Devonshire cream. Very small scones, the size of a florin, and made with salt as usual, are good split open and filled with Devonshire cream. The same sized scones, only made without salt, can be filled with marmalade, etc. If marmalade is used a few strips of candied peel should be put on the top of the scone. Chocolate, melted in a little hot milk and spread between slices of sponge cake, makes a popular Sandwich. FANCY BUTTERS. Fancy Butters are most useful, for they are as tempting as they are decorative. They can be served in little pats, melting on the surface of cutlets, or cold in little balls as part of a cold garnish, or they may be spread upon canapes and thus form an addition to a savoury. It is quite worth while to keep the few little things required in making Fancy Butters for this purpose only. These are : A small mortar and pestle, a small hair sieve, a small butter board and bat, and some little prints the size of a shilling for stamping the pats. Mattre d’Hdtel Butter.—In this, as in all Fancy Butters, only the best butter should be used. It must be as firm and as fresh as possible, and in warm weather it should be iced. The butter should be made in a cold larder, and when finished it should be put either in the ice cave, or on a plate (the pats well apart) set over a basin of broken ice. For Maitre d’Hotel Butter, add to two ounces of butter the juice of one lemon, a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley leaf free from all moisture, a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form with the butter bat. Green Butter.—Make spinach colouring by squeezing two handfuls of boiled and drained spinach leaves through muslin into a small basin. Blanch some parsley leaf, and mince as392 FANCY BUTTERS finely as possible enough of it to fill a tablespoon. Mince and pound capers enough to fill a teaspoon. Now colour the butter pale green by working the spinach colouring into it as lightly as you can. Then add the minced parsley and capers by degrees, and when they are thoroughly worked into the butter form it into little pats. This sort of Fancy Butter can be varied in an infinity of ways. For instance, Ravig’Ote Butter is made by working in equal quantities of chervil, burnet, tarragon, and chives, all blanched in scalding water for two minutes, and pounded. Or minced olives or gherkins can be added, or mustard and cress, or a little minced cooked mushroom. Tomato Butter is made by adding a little tomato conserve to the butter, enough to colour it red. For Watercress Butter pick, wash, and scald three ounces of watercress leaves, weighed after picking. Pound in the mortar, blend with five ounces of butter, and six well- pounded capers, and pass through the sieve. Pass all flavourings through the sieve. Other Fancy Butters can be made with Anchovies, Herring Roes, etc. For Anchovy Butter allow four full-sized anchovies. Scald, drain, and wipe them free from any trace of oil, pick out their spines, and pass them through the sieve. Work the anchovy pulp into four ounces of butter. For Herring’ Roe Butter pound the soft roes of two bloaters to a cream with one ounce of butter. Pass through the sieve, season with Nepaul pepper, and a dust of mace if liked. Work it into three ounces of butter coloured with spinach, adding a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar. Or tint the butter yellow with hard-boiled yolk of eggs passed through the sieve, and instead of the anchovy vinegar flavour the herring roes with a teaspoonful of pounded capers, passing all through the sieve. Cod roes can of course be used. Recipes for Lobster Butter and Shrimp Butter are given elsewhere, also for the Green Butter and Black Butter eaten with fish.393 CHAPTER XI. EGGS AND OMELETTES. Books have already been published containing recipes for cooking Eggs in numbers of ways. I shall, however, content myself with giving a few recipes, all excellent and all capable of variety. Most of these can be carried out by means of that excellent invention, the Chafing Dish, to be procured at 119 New Bond Street, and many of them are suitable for the luncheon or light dinner of ladies who dislike meat. For several of these recipes, and for the hints as to Omelettes, I am indebted to Wyvern. The fire-proof china pans, dishes, shells, and cases are all most valuable in the cooking of Eggs. Boiled Egg’S.—How few cooks know how to boil a new-laid egg so as to preserve that creamy freshness which lasts so short a time! How many ignorant persons order Eggs to be boiled at a gallop for three minutes and a half! These persons naturally find eggs indigestible, for when Eggs are cooked according to their method the white, or albumen, is over-cooked, and the * yolk is left nearly raw. Eggs, whether boiled in the breakfast room or in the kitchen, should never be hurried. Fill a small saucepan with cold water, and set it either over a spirit-lamp or on a brisk fire. -Watch till the water boils freely and then (and not till then) put in the Eggs. In cold weather warm the Eggs, or the shells may crack when they are put into boiling water. Count twelve, then put the cover of the saucepan on tightly, blow out the lamp, or take the saucepan off the fire. In eight minutes a hen’s egg (of which the ordinary size is reckoned to weigh one ounce) will be thoroughly cooked, the yolk formed and the whiteEGGS AND OMELETTES 394 soft. For very large Eggs a little longer time must be allowed, and for Bantam’s Eggs a little less. For Plover’s Eggs allow' ten minutes. Poached Egg'S.—Only really fresh Eggs can be poached well. Have ready boiling water, in wrhich a few drops of vinegar and a little salt have been put. Break the shells of the Eggs, and slip the Eggs at once into the boiling water. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, so that the water does not boil hard. In three minutes and a half the whites of the Eggs will be set and the Eggs poached. Take them out with a slice, and serve each Poached Egg on a square of buttered toast or fried bread. Poached Eggs are excellent served on a puree of Spinach. Or the toasts on which they are placed can be spread writh any savoury butter, or covered with minced chicken, or game, or ham, the mince just moistened with good sauce or melted glaze. Poached Eggs a VIndienne are arranged on squares of fried bread, and then smothered with curry sauce, for which see Chapter XIII. In all cases Poached Eggs should be served very hot. Fried Eggs and Bacon.—This dish is peculiar to the British race, and how often we have reason to wish that it never had been invented! Nothing is better than Fried Eggs and Bacon when properly cooked, nothing is more rare than to get them properly cooked, and nothing is more unpleasant to the eye, the palate, or the digestion than the dish of leathery yolks, and burnt discoloured "whites of eggs sent up, as is too often the case, bathed in tepid bacon fat, and resting upon greasy slices of bacon. Never fry the Eggs and the Bacon together, for the Bacon does not yield nearly enough fat to fry the Eggs properly. But have ready four ounces of lard (if lard is used) or four oimces of suet in a small but deep frying-pan over a brisk fire. Fry each Egg by itself. Wyvern uses a large iron spoon for each Egg, and he coaxes the white of the Egg gently over the wdiite whilst frying so as to give the Egg a round form "when fried. Heat the frying medium as for whitebait, slope the frying-pan, and gently slide the Egg, already broken into the large iron spoon, into the fast- boiling fat. In this way an Egg wall fry much more quickly than it would poach, and is quite different in look and in flavour from the Fried Egg generally served. It is also quite digestible. Lift each Egg carefully out with a slice, drain it, and go on with395 FRIED EGGS AND BACON the next Egg. Broil or toast the rashers of Bacon over a clear fire, quite separate from the Eggs, but serve the Eggs and Bacon together in a very hot dish. Eggs fried thus are excellent served on toasts in any of the ways suggested for Poached Eggs. Egg'S SUr le Plat.—Butter a fire-proof dish with an ounce of butter well-seasoned with pepper and salt. Slip in two Eggs most carefully, not breaking the yolks. Dust more pepper and salt over the Eggs, set the dish on a wire drainer in the oven, and let the Eggs set in the butter as a poached Egg sets in water. The drainer will keep the Eggs from burning. When they are set, serve at once in the same dish. Eggs sur le plat can be varied in several ways. Minced herbs, or fines herbes, or a ravigote, can be sprinkled over the butter in the dish. Or the Eggs can be served aujus, broken into strong gravy before being put in the oven. Or minced meat may be spread over the buttered dish, moistened with melted glaze or broth, (or if liked white sauce), a quarter of an inch deep, and the dish then put in the oven till the Eggs are set. Serve Eggs sur le plat in the dish they have been cooked in. Eggs au Miroir are cooked in the same way, but they must be served in another dish, and the whites must be trimmed. Sprinkle salt over the whites only, and glaze the Eggs by pouring a teaspoonful of boiling melted butter over the yolks. Fricassee Of Eggs.—(Family Recipe.)—Boil the Eggs hard, cut them the long way into thin slices. Put them into a pan with a little butter and cream, some parsley cut small, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of white wine. Add a squeeze of lemon, and let it boil up all together till it is pretty thick. Eggs the Good Woman’s Way.—(Family Recipe, 1830.)— Fry a sliced onion in an ounce of butter till it is done, but not brown. Add a teaspoonful of flour and whisk them well together, and add as much cream as will make it a thick batter. Put it into a basin, and break in three Eggs, one at a time, using only the yolks. Work the Eggs into the batter, adding a little salt. Beat the whites of the Eggs to a strong froth, and stir them gently in. Have ready a plain mould lined with buttered paper, and as soon as the mixture is stirred together put it in. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, and pour bechamel sauce over when ready to serve.EGGS AND OMELETTES 396 Aurora Eggs—{Family Recipe.)—Boil four Eggs hard, take the yolks from the whites, and put the yolks into a mortar with the yolk of one raw Egg and an ounce and half of hutter. Work well together. Take the whites and cut them in strips. Put them into half a pint of good bechamel sauce, seasoned with a little salt. Make them quite hot, and serve them on a dish with the yolks rubbed through a coarse sieve and shaken over them. Garnish with cocks’ combs of fried bread. Brown the whole with a salamander. Or let the yolk of the Eggs look like golden vermicelli on the top of the whites. Egg'S a la Suisse.—This is a rich dish. The great point in it is to partly cook the first layer of cream and cheese before the Eggs are put in. If this is not attended to the Eggs will be over-cooked. Wyvcrns admirable recipe is: Choose a fire-proof dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of grated cheese an eighth of an inch deep. Set this to cook in the oven for a few minutes. When the cream and cheese have amalgamated take out the dish, and slip in one by one as carefully as you can—to avoid breaking a single yolk—four Eggs. Give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and gently pour a little more cream over the surface, coating it over again with grated cheese. Replace the dish in the oven and let it remain there until the Eggs are set without being at all hard. The time will depend on the state of the oven, but will probably be from three to four minutes. Brown the surface by passing a red-hot iron backwards and forwards over it, about an inch above the cheese, and serve. (If more Eggs are wanted, use a second dish, as they must not be crowded.) Eg’g’S in Bread Sauce.—(Quantity for Sir Persons.)— Flavour a pint of milk as you would for bread sauce (see page 260). Turn the milk into a white sauce with half an ounce of flour and of butter. Butter a large fire-proof dish, pour over the bottom of it a layer of the sauce at least a quarter of an inch deep, and strew over it a layer of pounded breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. Put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to heat without boiling, take it out and slip into it, carefully and without breaking, six Eggs. Dust a layer of very fine raspings over the surface, and return the dish to the oven397 EGGS IN BREAD SAUCE just long enough for the Eggs to set. Grated cheese may be added to both crumbs and raspings. Egg’S in Cases, (Eufs en Caisses—These are excellent in themselves, and form a valuable method of using up any remains of fish, game, chicken, ham—in short anything which can be used as a lining for the cases. Small patty pans, or any of the pretty china shells, and fluted cases of white or coloured fire-proof china, can be used. To take an example of Wyvem's. Work in a mortar a quarter of a pint of picked shrimps and a little butter to the consistency of a pliant paste, add a quarter of a pint of white breadcrumbs which have been soaked in milk, and season with finely-chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Butter the china cases, and line them with this forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre of each to receive one Egg. Slip the Eggs into the cases carefully, sprinkle the surfaces with a little salt, and pour a little melted butter over them. Set the cases in a high-sided saute-pan, with hot water up to a third of their depth; push this into a moderate oven, and steam for eight or ten minutes. On taking out the cases, dish them on a flat dish, giving each a cap, as it were, of, in this case, shrimp puree. Tomato sauce makes an excellent cap for many sorts of Eggs in Cases. Eggs in Cases aux fines Herbes.—Butter the little cases well, and add a teaspoonful to each of minced fines herbes. Fines Herbes consist of two-thirds of chopped mushroom and chopped parsley to one-third of finely-chopped chives or the stem of a fresh green onion. Onion threads (see page 853) are infinitely superior to onion stem or to chives in all prepara- tions of Eggs, and are easily grown in a box anywhere. Warm the cases on the hot plate, and when the butter has melted break an Egg into each. Shake a layer of finely-sifted bread- crumbs over each surface, and keep the cases on a tin over moderate heat till the Eggs set. Then brown them with the salamander and serve. (Eufs MolletS.—For this French expression there is, in cookery, no English equivalent. The meaning is, just a sufficient cooking of the whites of the Eggs to allow of the removal of the shells, whilst the yolks are not hardened. To the touch (Eit fs Mullets feel firm and elastic in texture like the393 EGGS AND OMELETTES viollet or calf of the leg. To cook CEufs Mullet* properly, plunge them into boiling water, and keep them with the water at boiling point for five minutes. Then put them immediately into cold water, and leave them for from ten to fifteen minutes. When quite cold, peel off the Egg shells most carefully with the fingers. CEufs Mollets must not be boiled a second time, but unless they are fried they must be warmed up. This is best done in the bain- marie, putting the Eggs into hot salted water. CEiifs Mollets are excellent in every subsequent fashion, if they have been carefully cooked to begin with. They can be coated with egg and breadcrumb, and fried till lightly coloured. Or they can be laid whole, just as they are, upon any delicate puree either of meat or of vegetables. Or CEufs Mullets can be placed on squares of fried toast, and masked with any savoury butter. Or, as Wyvern suggests, “ Have ready a pint of nice “ white sauce seasoned with pepper and spiced salt. Flavour this “ with Ravigote, that is a tablespoonful, mixed, of equal parts of ■“ finely-chopped tarragon, parsley, chives, and chervil. Sharpen it u with a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Put the CEufs Mollets on a “ hot dish and pour the sauce boiling hot over them. Serve at ■“ once. Or send (Eufs Mollets up on freshly-made buttered “ toast, with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter, no bigger than a six- “ pence, melting upon each.” Buttered Eg’g’S.—It is better to follow the French fashion of serving Buttered Eggs, or CEufs Brouilles, upon a hot fire- proof dish. The English method of serving them on toast is a mistake, as the toast is sure to be either spongy or leathery. In America this dish is known as Scrambled Eggs. Most cooks suppose that Buttered Eggs is a dish to be served in a hurry, with any sort of butter, added anyhow, and that it requires neither time nor care. They are quite mistaken. To prepare good Buttered Eggs plenty of time is wanted, the best butter, and a slow fire. If the fire is fierce the Buttered Eggs are sure to be lumpy and tough instead of being smooth. Buttered Eggs, which are so useful in many different ways, must in all cases be served as soon as they are cooked. To keep them waiting is fatal. Wyvern's method ought always to be followed. For this, break three Eggs into a bowl with a saltspoonful of salt and a dust of pepper, and mix them well. Weigh an ounce and a half of fresh399 BUTTERED EGGS butter, divide it into two equal portions. Cut one portion into small pieces, and put the other in a small saucepan over a low fire. Pour in the Eggs, and whisk without stopping till the mixture shows signs of thickening. Now take a wooden spoon, add the small pieces of butter one by one, and stir the mixture of Butter and Egg unceasingly until it is lightly set. Add a table- spoonful of milk or veloute sauce, take the pan off the fire and serve the Buttered Eggs on fried squares of bread, or upon a hot dish. Buttered Eggs can be varied in many ways. But, what- ever addition is made, it should be done at the last moment, and when the Buttered Eggs have just finished cooking. Fines Hcrbes is a nice addition ; or spread a puree of vegetables on toast, and pour the Buttered Eggs over ; or grate as finely as possible lean ham or Hamburg beef over the Buttered Eggs. Or for Buttered Eggs with Cheese allow one ounce of grated cheese to three Eggs, mix the cheese in with the little bits of butter, and in this case the finishing spoonful of veloute sauce or cream must on no account be omitted. Shrimp Butter is excellent with Buttered Eggs, but it must be added at the last instead of veloute sauce or cream. Minced mushrooms, moistened with a little brown sauce, are quite as good as Shrimp Butter. For those who like onion Wyvern suggests a spoonful of good Soubise sauce as a finishing touch, instead of cream or white sauce. Egg'S en Cocottes.—{Family Recipe.)—Butter the little brown fire-proof cups for eggs. Put two teaspoonfuls of cream in each cup, and then break a fresh egg into each. Add salt, pepper, and a herb flavouring, or a little minced mushroom. If herbs are not used substitute herb pepper for ordinary pepper. Put the cups in a tin with boiling water three-quarters of their depth, and set the tin in the oven till the eggs are just set. Serve quickly. Or, if the eggs are liked more done, set the cups on a very hot stove for three or four minutes, till they just boil. Savoury Eggs.—Soak a heaped tablespoonful of dried crumbs in broth, add a well-beaten egg to each tablespoonful of crumbs with a teaspoonful of made mustard, a tablespoonful of grated cheese, and a sprinkling of minced parsley. Spread the mixture on toasts, and set them in the oven till nicely browned. Convent Eggs—{Mrs. C. W. Earle.)—Boil four Eggs for ten minutes. Put them in cold water. Peel an onion and slice400 EGGS AND OMELETTES it thin. Put into a frying-pan an ounce of butter, and when melted add the onion and fry Avhite. Then add a teaspoonful of flour and mix it well. Add about half a pint of milk till it forms a nice white sauce, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter ditto of pepper. When nicely done, add the eggs cut into six pieces each, crossways. Toss them up ; when hot, serve on toast. Eg’g’ Croquettes.—(Family Recipe.)—Boil four Eggs hard, about ten minutes, and chop them small. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add an ounce of flour mixed in half a pint of milk. Boil the milk till thick, then add the chopped Egg3 with pepper and salt, and a little parsley which has been blanched, drained, and minced; also a little minced shallot. Turn the mixture out on a plate, and let it get quite cold. Shape the Croquettes like small Jerusalem Artichokes, egg and breadcrumb each, and fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. A flavouring of minced mushroom or of minced ham is often liked in Egg Croquettes. The mince should be moistened with thick white sauce, and left to get cold. Allow a teaspoonful to each egg. Of course any flavouring, such as anchovy, can be used. The same mixture, varied according to taste, may be used for little rissoles, bouchees or beicjnets, the bouchees being fried in little pastry cases, and the beignets in batter. It is a mistake to add all sorts of extra flavourings to these dishes of Egg; the taste of the Egg itself should predominate. Eg’g’S in Shells, mixed with shrimp butter, are excellent. Moisten the shrimp butter with enough veloute sauce or milk to bring it to the consistency of an ordinary thick sauce. Stir into this the hard-boiled Eggs finely minced, and put the mixture into well-buttered shells. Heat in the oven, and dust over the surface of each shell finely-rasped crustcrumbs. [TF?/rm;.] Eg’g’S au Gratin.—Boil six Eggs hard, put them into cold water, when cold remove the shells. Cut the Eggs across in slices, arrange them upon a fire-proof china dish which has been well-buttered, setting them in layers, and seasoning each layer well with pepper and salt. Dust over each layer also a thin coating of grated Parmesan, and moisten the whole well with nicely made white sauce. Shake grated cheese over the wholeEGGS AU GRATIN 40 £ surface, moistening it with melted butter. Set the dish in the oven till, thoroughly heated, and brown the surface with a salamander. [TPi/rmt.] The last four recipes have been for Eggs which may be described as moderately hard-boiled. For the following recipes the Eggs must be thoroughly hard-boiled—that is, boiled for half an hour. Eg’g’S fareis, or filled with forcemeat, can be served either hot or cold. When the Eggs have boiled half an hour, put them into cold water, and as soon as they are quite cold shell them. Take a dessert knife rubbed in butter, divide each Egg in half crosswise, cutting off a little slice at the bottom of each so that the halves will stand upright. Pick out the yolks and pound them with an ounce of butter and any flavouring liked, such as pounded anchovy, finely-minced ham or tongue, or mushrooms. Allow one teaspoonful of farce to each half-egg, season with spiced pepper, and fill the halves neatly, using a dessert knife dipped in melted butter, and shaping the farce into a dome- shaped cap, as there will be too much of it to just fill the half- egg. Minced parsley and chervil make a simple and excellent farce, mixed with minced onion' threads. Eggs fareis can be egged and breadcrumbed, and fried one by one in very hot fat. Or they can be set, each resting on a square of fried bread, in a flat fire-proof dish slightly buttered, each Egg being moistened with a few drops of melted butter, and then baked in the oven for five minutes. Strew some raspings of crust over them just before serving. Eggs fareis, however, are much the best when served cold. For this pour half a pint of liquid aspic jelly into a flat dish, so that it may be three-eighths of an inch deep. When the aspic is quite cold and firm take a cutter an inch and a half in circumference, dip it in warm water, and cut out with it as many rounds of jelly as you have half-eggs. Arrange the Eggs round a dish, and chop up the remaining aspic jelly for garnish. Place in the centre cold fillets of sole masked with mayonnaise, or a cut of cold salmon masked with aspic, or a well-dressed salad. Or the Eggs may be set in a border of aspic, and little balls of shrimp butter may be placed between each Egg. Another way of serving hard-boiled Eggs is to halve them and set them upright, leaving the yolks as they are. Set each half n dEGGS AND OMELETTES 402 on a square or circle of fried bread in a fire-proof dish, moisten with a little melted butter, and bake till quite hot. Serve in the same dish, with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter, or any fancy butter, the size of a shilling, melting over each half-egg. OMELETTES. Wyvern is the only author known to me who gives full and clear directions as to Omelettes. His Omelettes are not the elaborate and decorated pudding-like creations of a chef, but the light frothy dish which is served in a minute at a French cabaret. or road-side inn. English cooks make many mistakes in Omelettes, and each mistake is fatal to success. For instance, they try to cook an Omelette over an ordinary kitchen fire, they use too many eggs, they beat the eggs, they add milk, they fold the Omelette, they fry it after it has set (I have even known a cook put an Omelette in the oven), and they take far too long over the cooking process. An Omelette cannot be cooked too quickly, and should go instantly from the pan to the plate. It should not be neatly shaped like a bolster or a crescent, for if it is it will cease to be an Omelette at all, and will become an over-cooked, heavy, leathery egg-pudding. An Omelette should never be stiff enough to take a neat shape. To begin with, the Omelette-pan must be kept for the making of Omelettes only. It must never be washed, nor rubbed with anything likely to scratch the surface. When done with, the Omelette-pan should be carefully cleaned with pieces of soft paper, and then thoroughly wiped with a clean cloth. The best Omelette-pans are those made of fire-proof French china, with sloping sides ; a ten-inch pan is ample for a three-egg Omelette, and a tvTelve-inch pan for one of six eggs. An ordinary kitchen fire is of no use in making Omelettes, for they absolutely require a clear brisk fire under the pan. The kitchen fire will only answer if it can be brought up nearly level with the hot-plate, with a surface of clear live coals. The Chafing Dish, with its powerful spirit-lamp, is by far the best thing to use in cooking Omelettes; and it has the additional advantage of being so portable and so easily managed that the Omelette can be cooked in an ante-room, or even in the dining-room, and served without4°3 OMELETTES the delay of bringing it up from the kitchen—a delay which very often spoils the Omelette. It is a great mistake to use too many eggs, and to make too large an Omelette; it is infinitely better to make a second, and a third, and to send them in in succession. A three-egg Omelette is the most manageable size; if you use four eggs, omit one white; if six eggs are used, omit two whites. No Omelette should ever exceed the six-egg size. Have everything ready before you begin to make the Omelette, so that there may b9 no delay. The silver or fire-proof dish into which the Omelette is to be turned must be thoroughly hot, with a small pat of butter just melted in it, and a little minced parsley. See that the Omelette-pan is not only clean but quite dry. Butter it evenly all over, a quarter of an inch thick, but not more. The quantity of butter must not be overdone. Now break three eggs into a basin, and add a saltspoonfal of salt. Do not beat the eggs, but stir them well with two forks till they are thoroughly mixed together. Put the buttered Omelette-pan on the fire or lamp. It must get thoroughly hot, or the Omelette will be tough. This is easily seen, for the moment the butter ceases to fizz and begins to look brownish the moisture will have been expelled, and the pan will be ready for the eggs. Pour the eggs from the basin into the pan, so that they may spread well over the buttered surface. To use Wyvern’s words, “At the moment of contact with the pan the part of the “ mixture nearest to the pan will set. Gently lift this with a “ spoon, tip the pan over a little, and let the unformed liquid “ run under it; this part will also form. Now give a few see- “ saw like shakes, moving the pan with your left hand, to “ encourage rapidity in setting. Give a good finishing shake, “ and with the spoon coax the Omelette to slide out of the “ Omelette-pan into the hot dish ready to receive it. If carefully “ done, the Omelette will roll over almost of its own accord (if “ the sides of the pan are sloping), burying within itself the “ slightly unformed juicy part of the mixture which remained “ on the surface. The Omelette will not require folding, but on “ reaching the dish it will slightly spread itself out, retaining no “ specially oval or bolster-like shape, and with a little of the “ juicy golden mixture escaping from its edges. D D 2404 OMELETTES “ Forty-five seconds, or three-quarters of a minute, is ample “ time for the whole process, if the pan is properly hot when the “ mixture is poured into it, and the heat evenly maintained “ during the cooking of the Omelette.” If a second Omelette has to be made, wipe the pan clean before using it again. Sometimes, when several Omelettes have been made in succession, a few particles of egg will be found sticking to the pan. These are easily removed by gently rubbing the pan whilst hot with salt mixed with a few drops of vinegar. A second cloth can be used instead of paper for wiping the Omelette-pan, but it must be perfectly clean and dry. The recipe just given is for the simplest of all Omelettes, the Omelette au naturel, made only of eggs, and a little salt. For an Omelette au persil mix a dessertspoonful of blanched and minced parsley with the eggs; and for an Omelette aux herbes add to this a teaspoonful of minced chervil, and the same of minced shallot, chives, or, as a much milder and more delicate flavour, a teaspoonful of minced onion threads. Thyme may be substituted for the chervil, or a very little rosemary, finely minced. For an Omelette aux fines herbes chopped mushrooms or truffles are added to the regular herbs. An excellent three-egg Omelette can be made by cutting up two ounces of mushrooms very finely and frying them in butter just before they are wanted. Omit the herbs in this Omelette. Keep the minced mushrooms hot in the pan they were fried in, and as soon as the Omelette is ready to turn into the hot dish pour the mince quickly over its surface. The Omelette will envelop the mince as it rolls over from the pan to the dish. A similar Omelette may be made with the remains of cold cooked asparagus. Cut the green part into quarter-inch dice, boil the stalks in milk, strain, thicken the milk, season with salt and pepper, and put the green pieces into it. Make an Omelette aux herbes : Add the asparagus in the same way as the minced mushroom, and serve as hot as possible, for milk is likely to make the Omelette leathery. For small parties, say of four persons, at breakfast or luncheon, a little one-egg Omelette made for each and served not in a dish but on a very hot plate, is often liked. For a Cheese Omelette of three eggs allow two ounces and4°5 OMELETTES a quarter of Parmesan or any mild dry cheese, grated and finely sifted. Add pepper and a very little salt (for the cheese will not require much salt). Add the cheese to the surface of the Omelette, in the same way as herb flavouring—that is, just as the Omelette is about to roll over—so that the cheese is buried in the Omelette. The cheese should be shaken evenly and quickly over the whole surface of the Omelette. Dust plenty of grated cheese over the Omelette just as it reaches the hot dish. Many people like the addition of vegetables, grated ham or tongue, or minced fish, to an Omelette. But the Omelette in these cases is never so light or so digestible. It is a better plan, when these additions are desired, to cook the Omelette in a different way. This excellent method, which is particularly suit- able for sweet Omelettes, was shown to Wyvern by native cooks in Southern India. For this second variety of Omelette a twelve-inch pan is needed, as it is very frothy, as light as a souffle, and needs plenty of room. The fire under the pan must be steady, but not fierce, or the Omelette will be over-cooked. Break three eggs one after the other, separating the yolks from the whites, and putting the yolks in one basin and the whites in another. Mix the yolks well together with a fork. Whisk the whites to a stiffish froth. Melt an ounce of butter in the Omelette-pan and let it get thoroughly hot over the lamp. Now add the yolks of the eggs to the whipped whites, and add also the chopped herbs and a saltspoonful of salt. Pour the mixture into the Omelette-pan, the heat under which should be moderate. Let it alone for two minutes, having smoothed the surface with a palette-knife. Keep the fire rather low. Slide the palette-knife under the edges of the Omelette so as to detach them from the pan, and, as soon as you see that the underpart is setting nicely, pass the palette-knife under the entire Omelette, double it over, and turn it at once into the hot dish. The Omelette is made firmer by passing a hot glazing-iron closely over its surface whilst the bottom is setting, but in any case the upper part remains frothy and is buried as the Omelette turns over in dishing. It is this variety of Omelette which adapts itself so well to a bed of hot vegetables, minced ham or tongue, or fish, laid readyOMELETTES 406 in the hot dish to receive it. These additions can be of course inserted between the folds of either kind of Omelette, but, as I have said before, the Omelette cannot be so light as it would be without them. The second form of Omelette can be made with flour or five eggs, not omitting any of the whites. The asparagus as suggested for the first kind of Omelette is even more suited to the second, served as a bed in the hot dish. Any nice vegetables, such as peas, French beans, flageolets, sprigs of cauliflower, artichoke bottoms, sliced Jerusalem artichokes, or young broad beans freed from their shells, are suitable. They must all have been previously cooked, allowed to get cold, and then lightly tossed in butter just before they are wanted. A dust of grated cheese improves most of these, and of course the herbs can be omitted from the Omelette and only parsley used in their place. A bed of tomatoes is very popular. Wyvern suggests for this six moderately-sized tomatoes. Blanch them for three minutes in scalding water, so that the unwholesome skin may be easily taken off. Put half an ounce of butter and a finely-sliced half-ounce shallot into a small stewpan. Fry till beginning to turn golden, then empty into the pan the Avhole of the tomatoes sliced thinly. Stir round, add a teaspoonful of freshly-ground black pepper straight from the pepper-mill, a saltspoonful of powdered dry basil, and one of salt. Stir for two minutes over a fairly brisk fire, to prevent catching. Do not pass the tomatoes through a sieve, but just before you put them in the hot dish ready for the Omelette add either a table- spoonful of white sauce, or stir in, off the jive, the yolk of a raw egg. Gentlemen often like a soubise puree as the bed of an Omelette aux herbes. For this onion puree the quantities given will be sufficient for two three-egg Omelettes. If wanted for breakfast the puree can easily be made the day before, and warmed up in the bain-marie. Mince six ounces of onion, and blanch them in boiling water for eight minutes. Strain carefully. Turn the minced onion into a stewpan over a low fire and stir it about so as to dry it thoroughly. Now add a tablespoonful of milk, simmer and continue adding milk by degrees till the onion is covered with milk. Simmer till the onion is cooked, then strain and pass the minced onion through the sieve. Thicken the milkOMELETTES 407 in which it was boiled with a quarter of an ounce of butter and the same of flour. Pass in the puree, mix all thoroughly together, and finish by adding, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up in a tablespoonful of milk. Minced ham or tongue, lightly fried and kept quite hot till wanted, may be added to an Omelette as it rolls over, if not more than two ounces are used for a three-egg Omelette. Fish additions are best made in the form of a bed. For oysters when two three-egg Omelettes are wanted, have twelve sauce oysters with their liquor. Strain the liquor (often gritty with little atoms of shell) into a small saucepan, and add the beards of the oysters. Now moisten well, with fish broth if possible (milk and water may be used), bring to the boil, and simmer for half an hour. Strain off the liquid and let it get cold. Put the twelve bearded oysters into it, empty all into a saucepan, and set it on the fire. See that the heat is moderate. Watch for signs of boiling, and reduce the heat to the lowest simmering temperature as soon as there is any symptom of boiling. In two minutes the oysters will be done. If they are allowed to boil they will be leathery. Take out the oysters, cut each in half, thicken the broth, put the oysters in again, and leave them in a china bowl all night. In the morning heat the oysters in the bain-marie, and use half the quantity for each Omelette. \WyvernJ\ For shrimps as a bed for Omelettes allow a half-pint measure of picked boiled shrimps for two three-egg Omelettes. Pound the shells, not the heads, in a mortar with one ounce of butter, pass through a hair sieve and put it into a small saucepan over a low fire. Add the picked shrimps, a dust of mace (if liked), stir well, and heat the whole thoroughly. Lobster and salmon seem to me too heavy to be associated with Omelettes, but they are often liked. For lobster allow four ounces of lobster minced small. Put a gill of good white sauce into a stewpan, stir in the mince, heat gently over a low fire without burning, season with salt, Nepaul pepper, and finish with a dessertspoonful of cream. Scatter minced parsley over the surface of the Omelette. This mixture may be placed on the Omelette before it folds over, or used as a bed. Salmon for an Omelette is not quite so rich. Break up the fish, allowing half a408 OMELETTES pound for two Omelettes, moisten it with a quarter of a pint of melted-butter sauce made with the salmon boilings—for cooked salmon is to be used. Moisten the salmon in the bain-marie, and add half of it, quite hot, but not boiling, to each Omelette. French chefs are very fond of serving Omelettes fourrees, or Omelettes lined with different preparations of fish, kidneys, chicken’s livers, foie gras, etc. These Omelettes are very neat in appearance, carefully dished, and elaborately garnished, but they cannot be light. In the Omelette fourree lightness is sacrificed to appearance, and a simple Omelette is infinitely preferable. SWEET OMELETTES. For these the second method of making an Omelette is infinitely superior to the first. Use a twelve-inch pan, as the Omelette, being very light and frothy, requires a roomy pan. Break three eggs one after the other, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Mix the yolks together with two forks. Whip the whites to a stiff froth. Add to the yolks one ounce of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice. Melt an ounce of butter in the Omelette pan, and see that it covers the pan evenly all over, not leaving any dry spaces. The fire must not be too hot. When the butter ceases bubbling mix the yolks of the eggs quickly with the whipped whites, pour the whole into the pan, and smooth it over with the palette-knife. Keep the heat rather low, and let the Omelette alone for two minutes. Then detach the edges from the pan with the knife, and as soon as the under part of the Omelette is seen to be setting double it over and turn it into the hot dish. The dish should previously have been well dusted with sugar, and plenty of sugar should be dredged over the Omelette just as it is served. Sweet Omelettes are improved by glazing them with a proper Omelette glazing-iron whilst the lower part of the Omelette is setting; this turns the sugar on the surface to caramel, and makes the Omelette firmer. This is a simple Omelette Sucr&e. If an Omelette an Confiture is wanted melt four tablespoonfuls of either apricot jam or strawberry jam in a small stewpan, and409 SWEET OMELETTES add a tablespoonful of kirsch. Keep this hot in a cup set in a basin of hot water, and just as the Omelette is ready to be doubled over pour the preserve quickly over the surface. It can, of course, be spread with the knife, but pouring is quicker. Cold jam would chill and spoil the Omelette. Flavourings such as rum, vanilla, ratafia, lemon, etc., are often liked. For these mix a tablespoonful of any flavouring selected with the yolks of the eggs when the sugar is added.4io CHAPTER XII. MACARONI AND RICE. Macaroni, so excellent when prepared by an Italian, is often ruined by an English cook. Macaroni is the principal f6od of many thousands of Italians, and Sir Henry Thompson considers that “ weight for weight, Macaroni may be regarded as not less valuable for flesh-making purposes than beef and mutton.” He specially recommends Macaroni as a luncheon dish for those who have to give close attention to business during a long after- noon, for it is easily digested, very sustaining, and does not cause dulness or sleepiness. English cooks generally spoil Macaroni by over-cooking it, and by soaking it in cold water. It must be acknowledged that all Macaroni is dirty (although the eye may not detect it), for it has necessarily been much handled by the extremely dirty Italians who manufacture it. But Macaroni must never be touched by any liquid which is not absolutely boil- ing. A great authority has wisely said “ Washing Macaroni is “ useless and unnecessary. Putting it on to cook in cold water is “ a blunder. Soaking it is a crime.” Messrs. Cozenza, in Wigmore Street, have excellent Macaroni in all shapes and sizes, made from the finest Semolina, or wheat flour. A manufactory has lately been established by M. G6taz at Rolle, in Switzerland, in which the Macaroni is made by machinery, and never touched by the hand. The best Macaroni—that is, the kind made from Semolina—should always be bought. It may take longer to boil, but it never loses its flavour, as Macaroni made with inferior flour is sure to do. The Neapolitan Macaroni is much better than that made at Genoa.MACARONI AND RICE 411 Before beginning to boil Macaroni see that the fire is good, for if you have to take the pan off and stop the boil whilst you mend the fire the Macaroni will be irretrievably spoilt. Allow a gallon of water to a pound of Macaroni, and let the water be thoroughly salted. When the water is boiling hard put in the Macaroni, and stir it frequently to prevent its caking into a mass. It is difficult to say how long Macaroni should be cooked. Neapolitans think it more digestible when it is underdone, so that it is rather crisp when bitten, or, to use their own term, when it is al dente. As a rule Macaroni will be cooked in from twenty to thirty minutes. It should be tried with a fork ; or a piece may be taken out, and if it is crisp and yet tender, and if it breaks with its own weight, the Macaroni is done. The over-cooking of Macaroni makes it into a soft, pappy mess, which no Macaroni lover could touch. The very moment that it is done a glass of cold water must be thrown in to stop the boil, and all the water instantly drained off through a colander. Everything depends on stopping the boil at the moment when the Macaroni is done. The Macaroni must be thoroughly drained ; if the pipe sort is used some water is sure to have lodged inside each tube. Put the Macaroni back into the dry, hot pan in which it has been boiled. It can now be served in various ways, but it ought to be eaten as soon as possible after it has been boiled. Never cut Macaroni with a steel knife; before cooking it can be broken; when cooked it must be eaten with a fork. Macaroni Cooked in Stock.—(Macaroni an jus.—Sir Henny Thompson's Recipe.)—Put four ounces of Macaroni, as little broken as possible, into three pints of boiling water. Boil it for ten minutes. Pour off all the water, and put the Macaroni into a stewpan with a pint of good stock. Add a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Let the Macaroni simmer till tender at the side of the stove. It is never to be soft or flabby. About half an hour, not more, will cook the Macaroni. Thicken the remaining stock with flour baked quite brown, and half a teaspoonful of Liebig’s Extract, and pour over the Macaroni. Sir Henry Thompson considers this form of Macaroni an jus to be the simplest and most digestible; but it may be observed that an ounce of glaze dissolved in the thickened stock is much412 MACARONI AND RICE better than the Liebig’s Extract. The ribbon Macaroni, or Fettuce, is the best kind to use for this dish. Macaroni a 1 Italicnnc,—Sir Henry Thompson recom- mends this to persons who can digest cheese and butter. Whilst the Macaroni is in the hot pan stir into it an ounce of butter, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. The Macaroni should be well worked about, and should “ spin ”—that is, delicate threads should extend from piece to piece. Italians stir in at last a breakfastcupful of tomato puree, but a tablespoonful will be enough for most English people. If the flavour of tomato is not liked it can be omitted altogether. Macaroni a la Napolitaine. — Boil three ounces of Macaroni, and when drained and in the hot pan stir in an ounce of grated Parmesan and shake it well amongst the Macaroni. Then add a second ounce of Parmesan, and finally stir in an ounce of butter. Season with salt, grind black pepper over, and serve the Macaroni steaming hot in a very hot dish. A nine-inch fire-proof china dish should be used. It is quite large enough for three ounces of dressed Macaroni. Macaroni alia Napolitana.—(Italian Recipe.)—Boil twelve ounces of Macaroni in salted water. Drain it well, lay it on a hot dish, and mix into it four ounces of butter. Stir in gradually six ounces of grated cheese. This should be done with two forks, and the Macaroni made to “ spin ” well. Put the Macaroni in layers on a very hot dish, sprinkle grated cheese between each layer, and sprinkle plenty of cheese over the top. Macaroni au Gratin.—Everybody is familiar with the time-honoured stand-by of the English cook, the indigestible mass called Macaroni Cheese, which, heavy enough when it left the kitchen, becomes still more sodden by waiting and cooling iD the dining-room. All Macaroni should be served as hot as possible, and Macaroni au Gratin is best sent in a hot dish with a spirit-lamp underneath, so that it keeps bubbling whilst being helped. Prepare the three ounces of Macaroni by boiling it in boiling water till tender. Drain it thoroughly. Turn the Macaroni out into a hot fire-proof china dish, dust over it half an ounce of cheese with a dessertspoonful of raspings. Dry Cheddar cheese answers well. Pour over it half an ounce of butter which has been thoroughly melted, and set the dish in theMACARONI AU GRATIN 4i3 oven till lightly coloured. Take it out, put the Macaroni into the silver dish with spirit-lamp, shake an ounce of cheese over it, and brown the surface by passing a red-hot glazing-iron half an inch above it. Or serve in the fire-proof dish. Butter is the right thing to use for moistening Macaroni, but in England milk is often preferred. Wyvern's is an excellent recipe for Macaroni au Gratin.—[English Fashion.)—Well butter a pie-dish, arrange three ounces of Macaroni neatly in it, give it a dusting of black pepper and salt, pour round it a large cupful of good sauce blonde (page 130) or milk, in which you have mixed two ounces of grated cheese. Let this run well in amongst the bed of Macaroni, moistening it thoroughly, and shake over the surface half an ounce of grated cheese, with a dessertspoonful of raspings. Make all thoroughly hot in the oven, and brown the surface of the cheese with a red-hot iron. Macaroni a la Sicilienne.—Boil three ounces of Macaroni. Take four ounces of minced chicken, two ounces of minced ham, two ounces of minced cooked mushrooms, a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Butter a deep fire-proof baking-dish well, sprinkle over it the minced parsley, cut the Macaroni in short lengths with a fork, put a layer of it at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of mince. Season each layer, and dust freely with grated cheese. When the dish is full, moisten it well with good domestic espagnole or veloute (page 135), according as you wish the Macaroni to be brown or white. Bake sufficiently to heat thoroughly, and brown the surface with a glazing-iron. Spaghetti with Mushrooms.—Peel and cut off the stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, wash the peelings, chop them and the stalks, and boil them up in half a pint of milk. Strain when the milk is flavoured. Thicken the milk, and cook in it the mushrooms themselves, cut [into largish squares and seasoned with salt and pepper. Keep this hot in the bain-marie whilst you boil and strain four ounces of Spaghetti, stirring into it at once, whilst hot, an ounce of butter and two of grated Parmesan. With this line a buttered fire-proof china dish, leaving a hollow in the centre. Put the mushrooms into the hollow, and cover the surface with the remaining Spaghetti.MACARONI AND RICE 414 Smooth over the surface, dust it over with grated Parmesan, and dot it with bits of butter. Push the dish into the oven till it is thoroughly hot and the surface has taken colour. Serve the dish on a folded napkin. [Wyvem.~\ RICE. Eice suffers quite as much as Macaroni at the hands of English cooks. Yet many a “professed” cook would be astonished to hear the West Indian negro and the East Indian native (persons whom she considers at the best to be nothing but poor dirty ignorant heathens), succeed in cooking Rice as inevitably as she fails in her attempts. Eice cooked by either negro or native is always tender and white, and each grain seems to have been cooked separately. This is the recipe of the Negro :— “Wash him well, much wash in cold water. Rice flour “ make him stick. Water boil all ready, boil very fast; shove him “ in. Rice can’t burn, water shake him too much. Boil quarter “ of hour, or little more. Rub one Rice in thumb and finger ; if “ all rub away, him quite done. Put Rice in colander, hot water “ run away. Pour cup cold water on him, put back in saucepan, “ keep him covered near fire. Then Rice all ready. You eat “ him up.” The East Indian recipe is quite as successful:— “ Choose a roomy pan, fill it with water at a galloping boil. “ Having thoroughly washed the Rice throw it in, with a table- “ spoonful of salt, a pinch of sugar, and a squeeze of lemon-juice “ to keep it white. Stir the grains now and then with a wooden “ spoon, and in twelve minutes take up a grain or two and pinch “ them. If they are tender stop the boiling instantly by dashing “ in a pint of cold water. Take the pan off the fire, hold it upside “ down, keeping the Rice in with the lid, and drain off every drop “ of water. When the pan is dry shake the Rice back into it, “ cover it with a clean warm dry cloth, and let it dry on the hot “ hearth. Shake the pan now and then, and stir the Rice “ occasionally with a fork (not a spoon), to prevent its sticking. The negro and the Indian native are well aware of the four essential points in cooking Rice—points which are neglected byRICE 415 the English cook and to which neglect her failure is due. These are:— 1. The English cook does not take the trouble to wash the Rice well in cold water, so as to remove all grit and impurity. 2. She uses too small a pan for boiling the Rice. 3. She generally boils the Rice too slowly or too long. Sometimes she commits the fatal error of putting it on in water which is not at a hard boil. 4. She dries the Rice too quickly and at too great a heat. This makes the grains stick together, whereas slow and careful drying gets rid of all the starch which remains after the first washing. There are two kinds of Rice, the Patna from the East Indies, and the Carolina from the West Indies and the Southern States of America. Carolina Rice has larger grains than Patna Rice. As all Rice swells in boiling to four times its original size three quarts and a half of water must be allowed for six ounces of Carolina Rice, and three quarts of water for six ounces of Patna Rice. This proportion must be strictly attended to. In pinching a grain to see if the Rice is done ascertain that there is no hard centre, but that the Rice is firm yet soft throughout. Some of the Rice is sure to stick to the bottom of the pan, but if a quarter of an ounce of butter is put in the grains will all come away as it melts. If the above directions are carefully followed Rice cannot fail to be properly boiled. Risotto a la Milanaise for two persons—(Sir H. Thompson's Recipe.)—Put two ounces of fresh butter with three ounces of onion chopped very fine into a stewpan, and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then add six ounces of well-washed Patna Rice, with a very little powdered saffron, stirring it constantly for about two minutes with a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the pan; after this two minutes’ cooking add about a pint of good stock very gradually, until the Rice is just soft. Before it is quite finished add an atom or two of grated nutmeg (if liked), and an ounce or more, according to taste, of Parmesan cheese grated. After this, cook, stirring well, for two or three minutes. Then remove the pan from the fire and set it on the hot-plate. Add a little more butter, cover for a few416 RICE minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock can be varied according as the Risotto is preferred thick or otherwise. Sir Henry Thompson does not explain that the reason for the constant stirring is that if this is neglected the Rice will burn and the dish will be spoilt. The pinch of saffron is merely used to give a yellow tint to the Rice. Rice a l’ltalienne.—Into four ounces of well-boiled Rice as it lies in the hot saucepan stir one ounce of butter. Stir till thoroughly mixed, dust with pepper and salt, add enough tomato pulp to moisten the whole nicely, and finish with two ounces of finely-grated Parmesan, Gruyere, or other mild dry cheese. Serve piping hot. When lifted with the fork the grains of Rice should carry with them long strings or tendrils of melted cheese as in the case of Macaroni a Vltalienne. \Wyvern.~\ Rice a la Turque.—Put into a saucepan a pint of giblet or mutton broth into which sufficient tomato pulp has been stirred to slightly thicken it. Season this highly with black pepper and salt, and set the saucepan on the fire. As soon as the liquid boils cast into it four ounces of uncooked carefully-sifted Rice. Reduce the heat after five minutes, and let the Rice stew gently in the tomato-flavoured broth. As the Rice cooks it will absorb the liquid. Watch it narrowly, stir gently to prevent its catching, and as soon as it has sucked up the whole of the liquid shake the pan well to separate the grains, and stir into it an ounce of fresh butter. Serve very hot. \Wyvern.~\ Rice a la Menag’ere.—Clean and blanch six ounces of Rice in boiling water for five minutes, using a roomy stewpan. Cool and drain the Rice on a sieve. Weigh a quarter of a pound of the best streaky bacon, dip it into scalding water for a couple of minutes, and then cut it into inch dice. Fry these in a stew- pan till they turn yellow, add the Rice, and a pint and a half of broth, with a saltspoonful of pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring the Rice every now and then to prevent its catching at the bottom of the pan. Now take it off the fire, and add half a pint of tomato puree or sauce. Mix thoroughly, and put the Rice on a dish. Garnish with sausages, curls of fried bacon, croquettes of fish, or any savoury mixture you like, worked into small shapes, and fried a golden yellow. [TT'yiwm.] Rice alia Principessa.—(Italian Recipe.)—In this and theRICE ALLA PRINCIPESSA 417 following Italian Recipe the quantities can be diminished in proportion. Boil twelve ounces of Rice in salted water; when half cooked stir in four ounces of butter and four ounces of grated cheese. Finish cooking the Rice, put it on a very hot dish, and mix carefully into it the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Rice Pie.—{Italian Recipe.)—Cook twelve ounces of Rice in stock, not too much, but so as to remain firm. When quite cold mix in thoroughly three ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of breadcrumbs, and the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, well beaten. Butter a mould, and sprinkle it thickly with bread- crumbs. Line the mould with the prepared Rice. Stew a pound and a half of minced cooked chicken, half a pound of minced ham or bacon, three ounces of onion, and four minced mush- rooms, in warm stock over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Fill the mould with this mixture, season with pepper and salt, pour in gently a quarter of a pint of the stock, cover over with some more of the Rice, and bake in a slow oven for about twenty minutes. Turkish Pilau.—{Sir Henry Thompson's Recipe.)—Well wash six ounces of Patna Rice, and blanch it in a pint of boiling water for five minutes only. Drain it thoroughly in a colander. Put the Rice in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper, stir well, and add by degrees half a pint of good fowl broth. After about fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly done, turning out with all the grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot. This is a true Pilau, but additions may be made of portions of the meat of the fowl. But a Pilau, as it is generally understood, is a fowl (or some- times other meat) stewed in its own broth till it can be pulled to pieces and eaten with the fingers. When the fowl is done it is kept hot in a covered pan, and the Rice is cooked in the remaining broth. Salt, pepper, and an ounce of butter are added, and the Rice is constantly stirred with a wooden spoon over a low fire till it has absorbed as much as possible of the broth. The broth must be added to the Rice very gradually, as only a little can be absorbed at once. Orientals colour the Rice with turmeric, and add spices, but this is not desirable inRICE 4iS England. When the Rice is cooked it should be emptied from the pan over and round the fowl, and served steaming hot. Rice is excellent with fish, especially when, after blanching, it is simmered in strong fish stock. The fish, such as salmon or cod, which has yielded the stock should be pulled to pieces, seasoned, and tossed in the hot pan with the Rice and a little extra butter. This makes a superior form of Kedgeree.419 CHAPTER XIII. CURRIES. English cooks have much to learn as to the making of good Curries, but the art can be acquired without incurring the expense, as is sometimes the case, of keeping an Indian servant on purpose to make and serve Curries. The most common mistakes with regard to English-made Curries are that they can be quickly made with very little trouble, that any remnants of meat several days old are quite suitable for Curry, and that these remnants only require smearing with Curry-powder and hasty stewing in any kind of white sauce. The right process of Curry- making is totally different. It requires ample time, and an ample stock of patience, but a good Curry is worth all the time and trouble expended upon it. Curries are better made of fresh meat, but very good Curries can be managed with cooked meat. Curries of fish and of vegetables are excellent, and are not nearly so often seen as they should be. Curries should be made in an earthenware casserole, and served in it with a napkin pinned round it. All Curries are better when warmed up a second time, so that the remaining contents of the casserole should be carefully set aside. Both Curry-powder and Curry-paste are required, as the paste contains several ingredients which cannot be worked into the powder. Both should be bought from a first-rate London shop. Curries require a peculiar flavour which can only be given by an infusion of nuts. Cocoanut is the right ingredient, but, as many English people greatly dislike the taste of cocoanut, almonds can be used instead. Green ginger—that is, the fresh unbleached E E 2CURRIES 420 ginger root—can be bought in London ; it must be grated like horseradish, and then pounded to a paste with a little butter. A slightly acid flavour, or, rather, “ a sweet and a sour,” is needed in Curries ; in India this flavour is given by tamarinds, in England by currant-jelly and lemon-juice. Chopped apples or green gooseberries should never be used. Many English recipes advise the use of turmeric or saffron in Curries, the authors apparently thinking that turmeric and saffron are the same thing, whereas they are totally different. Turmeric grows in India, and gives a warm spicy flavour, as well as a yellow colour, to Curries, whilst saffron, peculiar to Southern Europe and Asia Minor, only contributes the colour, and even that is not quite like turmeric. Most Curry-powders contain a sufficient amount of turmeric. To make the Curry.—The following proportions are sufficient for a pound of uncooked mutton, veal, or lamb; for a pound of fish ; for a pound of vegetables ; or for a moderate-sized chicken. Large fowls are not suitable for Curry. Cut the meat or fish into small squares of about three-quarters of an inch ; cut up the chicken as for a fricassee, making three pieces of the breast-bone, two of each thigh, and two of each leg; divide vegetables into neat pieces. I will choose a Chicken Curry as an example : 1. When the chicken is cut up, put the pieces in water for half an hour, then dry them, set them aside, and dredge a little flour over them. 2. Take all the giblets of the chicken, including head and feet, with any scraps of meat that can be spared, put them into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of glaze (or of Brand’s essence), four ounces of onion sliced, three ounces of carrot sliced, six peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, a saltspoonful of salt and half one of sugar. Cover them with cold water, boil, simmer, and make the best broth you can. When the broth is ready, strain it into a bowl, and skim it clean. There ought to be from a pint to a pint and a half of broth. 3. Take a fire-proof casserole. Weigh four ounces of onion and mince it small. Put two ounces of butter into the casserole, and set it over a moderate fire. When the butter has melted put in the minced onion, and leave it to fry very gently, gradually colouringTO MAKE THE CURRY 421 to a nice yellowish-brown. The onion must on no account burn, but it must colour. In India the small red shallots are used for Curries, but here ordinary onions do nearly as well. Some people prefer the mild Portugal onions. Be careful not to use more than two ounces of butter to the four ounces of onion, or the Curry will be greasy. 4. Whilst the minced onion is cooking in the casserole, prepare the “ Curry stuff,” and the nutty infusion. For the “ Curry stuff” put into a soup-plate a tablespoonful and a half of Curry- powder, a dessertspoonful of Curry-paste, a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of creme de viz, or rice-flour. Turn them to a paste by moistening them slightly with the broth, and mix all well together. For the nutty infusion (which is indis- pensable in a good Curry), put into a small basin a tablespoonful and a half of desiccated cocoanut, and one tablespoonful of ground sweet almonds. Pour over them a breakfastcupful of boiling water, cover them, and leave them to infuse. The milk produced is the infusion from the white lining of the cocoanut, scraped, and soaked. This is used in India, and not the water, often called milk, which is found inside a cocoanut. If the flavour of cocoanut is disliked, make an infusion of a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds pounded with one bitter one, moisten with a breakfastcupful of boiling milk or broth, and let them steep. 5. The minced onion in the casserole will now be coloured. Add to it the “Curry stuff” (not the nutty infusion), and fry all together very gently and carefully for ten minutes at least. The slow frying is necessary in order to overcome a certain crude taste w’hich exists in the Curry-powder, and which, when treated in the hasty fashion of English cooks, imparts a most disagree- able snuffy flavour to the whole dish. Avoid the mistake of putting in the “ Curry stuff” and the broth together ; this is just as fatal as to add broth to an uncooked rou.c. The “ Curry stuff” must be slowly fried in the onions and butter before the addition of any broth. 6. When the frying is finished add the pint of broth, a little at a time. If a thickish Curry sauce is liked stir into the fried “Curry stuff” a dessertspoonful of creme de riz; if this is not added the sauce will only be a little thicker than ordinary gravy. 7. Stir well, increase the heat slightly, bring gradually to theCURRIES 422 boil, skim, and set the casserole in the bain-marie whilst you prepare the chicken. 8. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add a one-ounce shallot minced fine, and fry for two minutes. Put in the pieces of chicken, and lightly fry them. As soon as they are slightly coloured put the pieces of chicken into the casserole, and leave them to marinade in the Curry sauce for at least half an hour. 9. Now prepare the final flavourings of the Curry. Grate and pound to a paste with a little butter enough green ginger to make a teaspoonful. Mix a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly with the juice of half a lemon. Strain the nutty infusion, and squeeze it through muslin, so as to get all the milk out of the nuts. 10. Set the casserole over a moderate fire, and if the pieces of chicken are not quite covered add more broth. Simmer as gently as possible. For a small chicken half an hour will be enough ; for other meat an hour and half is not too much. Add the green ginger and the currant jelly when you set the casserole to simmer. 11. Towards the end of the simmering taste the sauce, and if necessary add a little more of the jelly and lemon-juice, or a little more salt. 12. The last thing before serving add the nutty infusion, passing it into the Curry through a strainer. Serve the Curry at once, in the casserole, and hand a dish of well-boiled rice (see page 414). The essentials in Curry-making are patient and slow cooking, the proper use at the proper time of the right ingredients, and close attention to details. It may seem a great deal of trouble to carry out the instructions given above, but both the cook and her employers will be well repaid. Of course, a Curry should only be ordered when the cook has plenty of time to attend to it. Any remains of the Curry should be set aside in the casserole, and revived next day by the addition of half an ounce each of butter and of onion fried together as before, then fried with a teaspoonful of Curry-powder, and finally moistened with a coffeecupful of broth. If the casserole is now gently heated in the bain-marie the Curry will be found even better than it was the day before, for the chicken will have become thoroughly flavoured with the sauce, and the sauce will be reduced and strengthened by the second simmering.423 TO MAKE THE CURRY Fresh meat and fresh fish can be curried in exactly the same way as chicken. Of course, meat stock must be used for meat, fish broth for fish, and vegetable eau de cuisson or milk for vege- tables. The creme de riz must always be added to the “ Curry stuff,” as it absorbs the butter in frying and prevents any greasiness. The nutty infusion, like the addition of butter or yolk of egg to a good sauce, is always stirred in at the last moment. If liked, a dessertspoonful of chutney may be added with the currant jelly ; probably tamarind chutney would be the most suitable. Cooked meat should be cut into squares, and allowed to marinade in a well-made Curry sauce for as long as possible. It will only need to be gently heated in the casserole to steaming point, and should then be served at once. Cold dressed vege- tables, or hard-boiled eggs (cut lengthwise), need only gently warming up in the Curry sauce. Some people like garlic in Curries ; in this case use a drop or two according to Mrs. Earle’s method (page 343). An excellent Curry can be made of sprigs of lightly-boiled cauliflower, mixed with plenty of picked boiled shrimps, and gently heated up together in Curry sauce. Praicn Curry, or Curry of the fillets of any firm fish, is very popular, and can be made on the same lines as the Chicken Curry already given. Take at least a pint of prawns, shell them, keep the shells and throw away the heads. Clean them carefully by passing a small knife down the grooves on the prawn, back and front, and take out any grit which may be there. Put the prawns into a basin of fresh water, wash them thoroughly, dry them on a cloth, dust them over with flour, and lay them on a dish. Cut a good-sized cucumber, or two small ones, into quarters, take out the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Divide the quarters into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stewpan with plenty of boiling water, half an ounce of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Blanch for three minutes, and simmer them until three-parts done, then drain the liquid off, turn the pieces of cucumber on to a clean dish, and cover them up. Fry the onions and butter as before, make and fry the “ Curry stuff,” and make the nutty infusion. Have ready half a pint of strong fish broth made by simmering hal a pound424 CURRIES of fish cuttings and the pounded prawn shells in water, or milk and water, with an onion, sliced, a sprig of parsley, salt and pepper. Add this by degrees to the contents of the casserole. Let it boil, skim, reduce the heat, put in the prawns, and the cucumber, and let the casserole rest in the bain-marie for half an hour. Then put the casserole on a moderate fire, bring it to simmering point, then add the green ginger, currant jelly, and lemon-juice, as before, and let all gently simmer for twelve minutes. Finally add the nutty infusion, stir and serve the Curry in the casserole. Hand well-boiled rice with it. Dry Curry.—This is quite worth the trouble of making it. For a Dry Curry the sauce must be made without any creme de riz thickening, and must be reduced by simmering with the lid of the pan off. Reduce the fire till it is very low, and continually turn the pieces of meat about with a wooden spoon till the sauce dries up and lies in powder over the meat. All fat should have been removed from the squares of meat, or the Curry will be greasy. A good way of serving an ordinary Curry a second time is to turn it into a Dry Curry. For this, prepare eight or ten pieces of fried bread, two and a half inches square, and lay them close together in a hot dish. Pick the meat out of the Curry sauce, melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, set it over a very low fire, put in the squares of curried meat, and stir them about with a wooden spoon, so that they may heat up and become dry and powdery at the same time. This must be very patiently done, and care must be taken to prevent burning. By degrees the pieces of meat will separate themselves from each other, and the portions of sauce they brought with them will dry. A quick fire would make the meat tough. When quite hot and powdery arrange the Dry Curry on the pieces of bread, and serve with curls of crisply-fried bacon or fried ham. Any Curry is good if warmed in the bain-marie, and poured hot upon pieces of fried bread or hot toast. For nearly all the directions as to Curry I am indebted to Wyvem's Indian experience.425 CHAPTER XIY. BEVERAGES. Clear Barley Water.—{Family Recipe.)—Wash a pound of Pearl Barley very well in two or three waters. Put it into a quart jug with a lump of sugar. Fill the jug with boiling water, and let it stand to get cold. The Barley will settle at the bottom, and the liquid will be quite clear. For the Flavouring, either put the rind of a lemon pared very thin into the jug with the Barley and sugar before the boiling water is added. Or (which is a better way) pare the lemon rind very thin, put it into a break- fast cup, pour boiling water upon it, and let it stand half an hour. Strain, put the liquid in the glass jug the Barley Water will be served in, and pour the Barley Water upon it. Set the glass jug on ice before serving. Lemonade.—For one quart of Lemonade allow six ripe lemons, or eight if they are not juicy. Rub the outside of two of the lemons thoroughly with lumps of sugar to get the “ zest,” or essential oil, of the rind. Pick out the pips of all the lemons, and squeeze out every drop of juice. Put the lumps of sugar and the lemon-juice into a jug, and pour nearly a quart of boiling water upon them. Cover the jug till the Lemonade is cold. More sugar may be added, but the Lemonade is generally sweet enough if four lumps of sugar have been used. Another way is to pare one lemon as thinly as possible, and to skin all the lemons, removing every particle of the white, which is very bitter. Take out the pips, slice the lemons, and put them and the one lemon paring into the jug, allowing two lumps of sugar to each lemon. Fill up with boiling water, let the Lemonade get cold, and strain it before serving.BEVERAGES 426 Orangeade.—For one pint allow two oranges. Peel the rind from one as thinly as possible, slice both Oranges, removing the pips and all the white. Put them and the one rind in a jug with three lumps of sugar, and pour a pint of boiling water upon them. Let the Orangeade get cold, and strain it before serving. Toast and Water.—How often when paying a visit and wishing for Toast and Water at night, one is told that the cook does not know how to make it! How often in hotels one is charged sixpence for a jug of lukewarm water, in -which a lump of sodden untoasted white bread is soaking! Properly made Toast and Water is very refreshing and very nutritious. But it must be properly and carefully made, and it must also be freshly made, as it soon turns sour. Toast a thin slice of bread very slowly and patiently till it is extremely hard and brown, but not in the least black. Put it into a jug, and pour upon it one quart of freshly-drawn cold water. Cover the jug and let the Toast and Water stand for one hour. Take out the toast, and pour the Toast and Water into the jug it is to be served in. It does not generally need straining, but it must be served quite cold. Simple Claret Cup.—Extract the “ zest ” from the peel of a lemon by rubbing four lumps of sugar upon it. Pare another lemon as thinly as you can. Put the paring and the sugar into a large jug, and pour in a quart of claret. Mix all well together. Set the jug on ice for an hour. Just before serving add a pint of sparkling moselle, and two bottles of soda water. Put a few sprigs of balm into the jug. Borage is the correct herb to use, but the flavour is not always liked. The moselle is an immense improvement to Claret Cup. Brandy and cura9oa are often added, but they prevent the Cup from being refreshing. If they are added, the proportions for the above quantity are two gills of brandy and one of curaijoa, put in with a large piece of ice. Eskriek Park Cider Cup.—(Family Recipe.)—To make two quarts of Cup. First take the peel of a lemon, twelve lumps of sugar, and a little water. Boil to a syrup, so as to extract the flavour of the peel. Then put into a jug some sprigs of borage, some slices of cucumber and of lemon, and a little grated nutmeg. Add a pint of sherry, a bottle of cider, one glass of ale, and a bottle of soda water. Sweeten with the syrup according to your taste.427 MERTON COLLEGE CIDER CUP Merton College Cider Cup.—'To one quart of cider add two wineglasses of sherry and one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a few slices of lemon. Sweeten with sugar. Serve up with a little ice and sprigs of balm and borage. Do not leave the herbs in too long. Rum Punch.—(Family Recipe.)—Squeeze the juice of nine ripe lemons into two quarts of boiling water. Add a pound of loaf sugar well rubbed with the rinds of the lemons. Pour in a pint and quarter of rum. If the lemons are not juicy you must use twelve. Summer Punch.—Pour half a pint of gin on the thinly- pared rind of a lemon, squeeze in the juice of half the lemon. Then add a glass of maraschino, a pint and quarter of cold water, and two bottles of iced soda water. This will make three pints of Punch. Do not ice the Punch ; it is much better to ice the soda water. Milk Punch.—Put the rind of half a lemon and twelve lumps of sugar into one pint of new milk. Boil it very gently for a quarter of an hour. Take the saucepan off the fire and take out the lemon peel. Have ready the yolk of an egg thoroughly blended with two tablespoonfuls of brandy, four of rum, and one of cold milk. Whisk all together off the fire, and serve as soon as it froths. Punch a la Romaine.—Take a teacupful (three ounces) of rum, the same of champagne, and three teacupfuls of lemonade. Add the juice of two oranges. Whip the whites of two eggs with half a pound of powdered sugar to a firm froth. Mix this with the liquid, ice it, and serve in cups. Egg Flip.—Take a pint of mild ale, and bring it to the boil. Stir into it, off the fire, two whole eggs beaten up with three ounces of sugar. Pour the Flip into a hot jug (scalded out with boiling water), and pour it into another heated jug, holding the jug you pour from as high as you can. Repeat this several times till the Egg Flip is well frothed. Never let it get cold. Grate a little ginger over it before you serve the Egg Flip. Mulled Claret.—(Family Recipe.)—Put half a pint of claret into a saucepan with a little water, six or eight cloves, and a piece of cinnamon. Make it boiling hot. Grate a little nutmeg and a little ground ginger into a jug (the ginger grated428 BEVERAGES after it has been bought as ground ginger). Pour the claret in, having first put in a lump of sugar rubbed well on the rind of a lemon. Ginger Cordial.—(Family Recipe.)—To every pound of picked and bruised white currants add one quart of whisky, and the rind of a lemon cut thin. Let it stand one night, then strain it and add to the liquor one pound of lump sugar, also half an ounce of sliced ginger to every quart. Bottle and let it stand for one month, then strain first through a sieve and then through blotting paper, and re-bottle it. The Cordial can be made with French brandy, and cherries or raspberries instead of currants. Orange Brandy.—Always make this liqueur in March, and recollect that the longer it is kept the better. Take the thinly-pared rinds of six Seville oranges, and put them into a stone jar, with half a pint of the orange-juice strained and two quarts of good brandy. Let it stand for three days. Then add a pound and a quarter of lump sugar, and stir till all the lumps are dissolved. Let the liquor stand for a day, then strain it through blotting paper, and bottle it. Be careful to cork the bottles tightly. Sloe Gin.—Sloes are the fruit of the Blackthorn, and should not be gathered till they have felt at least one frost. Allow one pound of sifted white sugar to one pound of Sloes. Prick the Sloes, and roll them in the sugar. Fill the bottles half full of Sloes, and then gently pour in gin till it reaches the top. Do not uncork the bottles for a year. The liqueur will then be in perfection. Duke of Queensberry’s Liqueur.—{Family Recipe.)—Take three quarts of brandy, a gill of Seville orange-juice, one pound two ounces of finely-sifted white sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the rind of six Seville oranges pared very thin. Let all stand three days in an earthen pitcher, stirring it twice or thrice a day. Then let it drip through a jelly bag to fine it, and bottle for use. By rubbing lumps of sugar upon unpared oranges you may add much to the flavour. A gill of blue milk added to the liqueur before bottling improves its brightness. Raspberry Vinegar.—(Family Recipe.)—Pour two quarts of best vinegar over one quart of Raspberries picked from their stalks but not mashed. Leave them for 24 hours. Next day put the vinegar and fruit on the fire till it just boils, and then squeeze it429 RASPBERRY VINEGAR through a cloth. Add two pounds of sugar, and let all simmer for ten minutes. This quantity makes six bottles, and is sufficient every year. (A gill of Raspberry Vinegar mixed in a tumbler of iced seltzer water makes a very refreshing drink.) King* Cup.—(Family Recipe.)—Take the thinly-pared rind of one lemon and all the juice of the lemon, a small piece of bruised ginger, and two lumps of sugar. Pour a pint and a half of boiling water over them and let it stand to get cold. When quite cold stir in a glass of sherry. Fruit Drink.—Mash one pint of fruit in the juice of two lemons, a pint of water, and a little syrup. Strain through a hair sieve. Strawberries, raspberries or mulberries are the best fruit to use. The Long1 Drink.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a large tumbler, if possible one that has a pocket for ice. Bruise twelve straw- berries till they yield a tablespoonful of juice. Put the juice into the tumbler with a tablespoonful of cream (or milk if preferred), and fill up with soda water. Orange, pineapple, or any fruit will do, only you must get a tablespoonful of juice out of it.43° CHAPTER XV. FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS. It is much to be regretted that more thought is not bestowed on variety and on individual taste in the food offered to invalids. In this the attendant friend and the nurse are chiefly to blame. The Doctor of course orders what he knows to be suitable food, but Doctors as a rule know little of cookery, and are apt to forget that patients have uncontrollable likes and dislikes. Distasteful food cannot be swallowed at a gulp like nauseous medicine. The Doctor may, for instance, order oysters or sweetbread, not only as light and nourishing food, but as the treat to the patient which it would be to himself. He cannot know, and he has no time to hear, that in the days of rudest health the patient would rather endure any amount of hunger than touch either oysters or sweetbread. Or the Doctor may order a boiled sole, saying to the nurse, “ Now mind that the sole is plainly boiled, just water, you know, and nothing else.” When the entire sole comes up, floating in that eau de cuisson which is so valuable in the kitchen and so unappetising on the plate, the nurse will say to the shrinking and disgusted patient, “How delighted the Doctor “ would be! The sole is cooked just as he ordered it. Only do “look at the water!” Many good nurses (and many Doctors too) consider every organ and function of a patient’s frame with the one exception of the sense of taste. It is for the attendant friend to recollect, and for the nurse to find out, what are the special likes and dislikes of the patient when in health, and to be prepared with alternative and suitable suggestions to the Doctor as to food, of course out of the patient’s hearing. They probably43i FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS know as well as many Doctors, and better than most, what light and suitable food is required, and they are sure to be able to suggest variety. For instance, a little well-made bread sauce, with or without cream, as allowed, is often liked; or a spoonful or two of savoury jelly; or a morsel of the form of Yorkshire Pudding given below. A boiled sole, boiled in (but not sent up in) water, may be divided and made into a delicate dish. Above all things, avoid teasing invalids to say what they would like to eat, and never bring into the room a larger quantity than is likely to be enjoyed. I hope that the recipes given in this chapter may be of use in suggesting variety as well as nourish- ment in the food destined for invalids, and for those recovering from illness. Beef Tea.—For making Beef Tea the meat ought not only to be fresh but should be as freshly killed as possible. (1) . Take one pound of the freshest beef without the least particle of fat, gristle, sinew, or skin. Mince the beef with a knife (do not use the mincing machine). Put the beef into one pint of cold water, and stir for ten minutes. Bring it to the boil, and boil it for half an hour, never ceasing to stir it. Strain, and add a dust of salt. (This is the Beef Tea ordered for a patient four hours before an operation. In that case nothing whatever may be eaten with it, but under other circumstances strips of dry toast should be served.) (2) . Cut up six ounces of fresh beef. Put the meat in a jar with half a pint of cold water. Set the jar in a cold place for six hours. The meat will then be quite white, every drop of juice being extracted from it. Take out the meat, but do not strain the Beef Tea. Put the jar in the bain-marie, and gradually warm it up. Serve with dry toast, and salt in a salt-cellar. (Never put in salt for an invalid unless the patient is too ill to tell you how much is liked. In all Beef Tea, fat, gristle, and skin must be completely removed from the meat.) (3) . Cut half a pound of fresh lean beef into slices, lay them in a pan, and cover them with one pint of boiling water. Cover the pan close, and let it stand half an hour by the fire. Boil it up once, pour the Beef Tea off clear, and serve with dry toast. (4) . Cold Beef Tea.—Mince one pound of fresh beef as finely as possible. Pour upon it one quart of boiling water. Plunge the432 FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS jar in a deep saucepan filled with boiling water. Set it by the fire, but not so near as to let it simmer. Let it get cold. Strain through muslin, and after that filter it through clean white blotting paper. This Beef Tea is to be taken cold only, and can be digested by the weakest patient. Mutton Tea.—This is much liked by aged patients. Take a pound and half of fresh mutton from the leg, free it from every morsel of fat, gristle or skin. Put it, cut in pieces, with two ounces of well-washed rice, and a dust of salt, into one quart of cold water. Bring it nearly to the boil and let it simmer for four hours. Strain it carefully, and remove every particle of fat. Serve about a teacupful at a time. Veal Tea.—Make this exactly like Mutton Tea. It is very- light and digestible. The rice can be replaced by tapioca, or well-washed pearl barley. Chicken Tea.—This can be taken hot or cold. Skin a chicken, divide it, leaving out the back. Put it into cold water with four white peppercorns. Simmer till the chicken is in rags. Strain the tea, and when cold remove every particle of fat. If taken warm, warm it up in the bain-marie, or in a jar put in a pan of boiling water. [Some of these decoctions are rather tasteless, and in others the perpetual flavour of meat alone becomes wearisome. It is well to ask the Doctor if a little vegetable flavouring may be added, such as a few leaves of mint, or thyme, or parsley, or a little celery seed. Of course all the leaves would be very small, blanched, and tied up in muslin, so that only the flavour and not the leaves themselves would get into the liquid. Parsley is particularly acceptable with mutton tea. If the Doctor under- stands how the flavouring is given, and that it is not the Harvey or Worcester sauce, or the wine, liqueur, or spirits, which he has been taught to associate with the word “ flavouring,” he will probably consent readily. Invalids often like their morsel of toast better if it is toasted before their own fire. The smell of the toast is pleasant, and the toast itself much better when quite fresh from the toasting-fork. Instead of toast, freshly-made water biscuits, or Passover biscuits, or a little pulled bread, or bread chips (see Chapter XX) are often liked for a change. For Mince see page 194.]433 CALFS FEET BROTH Calf s Feet Broth.—Take two well-cleaned calf’s feet (see page 190), half a pound of lean beef, and three or four slices of white bread half an inch thick, leaving the crust on. Or use the bottom of a tin loaf. Put all into three quarts of water with a little salt. Reduce the broth by simmering to three pints. Strain it very carefully, and remove all fat. Calf S Feet With Milk.—Put two thoroughly-cleaned calf’s feet into a jar, and cover them with equal quantities of milk and water. Put a paste cover over the jar, and set it in a slack oven for three hours. When cold take off all fat, and warm up as required. A few herbs, such as parsley, thyme, or even a bit of leek, if allowed and if liked, improve this broth. Or it may have a little lemon peel stewed in the jar, and be served slightly sweetened. Eel Broth.—This is most nourishing, but some patients will not touch Eels. Prepare a pound of Eels as on page 104, cut them in pieces, and put them in a saucepan with two quarts of water, a little salt, a little blanched parsley, and a few pepper- corns. Simmer until the Eels drop to pieces. Strain, and carefully take off all fat. Nourishing’ Lemonade.—Whip the whites of three eggs, put them in a basin. Add one pint of cold water, and the juice of a large lemon, or of two small ones. Sweeten as liked by the patient. Strain through muslin, so as to have the Lemonade quite clear, and serve cold. To Prepare Raw Beef for Invalids.—For sandwiches scrape the meat as finely as possible, omitting every particle of hard fibre. For Beef Juice put the beef on a very hot gridiron for a minute, so as to char the meat. This gives a cooked taste, and yet does not cook the juices of the meat. Then rub the meat with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve. The meat juice will pass through the sieve, and will be entirely pressed out of the beef. When this Beef Juice is ordered the patient is generally too ill to notice what is given, but, if the patient can take any interest in the food prescribed, serve the Beef Juice in a coloured glass. To Beat up Eg’g’s in Brandy.—Get a wide-mouthed bottle with a stopper, break two yolks of eggs into it, allowing an ounce of brandy for each yolk. Add about a tablespoonful of FF434 FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS water to take off the raw taste. Shake the bottle thoroughly, and shake again every time you give the quantity ordered. Tartar Drink.—Pare the lemon as thinly as possible, using a very sharp knife. You can then pull off all the white part easily. Remove every particle of white, cut the lemon in slices, and take out the pips. Pour a pint of boiling water upon it, sweeten to taste, and use a little of the rind if liked. Add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Or make the lemonade stronger, and add an equal quantity of thick barley water. This is useful in cases of thirst, and in kidney trouble. Port Wine Drink.—Two glasses of wine, two eggs well beaten up in half a pint of milk. Sweeten if liked. Strain off the liquid, and drink as required. Burgundy can be used in the same way. Prairie Oyster.—Put a teaspoonful of French vinegar at the bottom of a wineglass, break a new-laid egg into it, add a little pepper and salt, and swallow at a gulp. Chicken Food for an Invalid.—(Family Becipe.)—Take a good chicken, remove all the white meat. Cut up the remainder into small pieces, and stew in a quart of water till it is reduced one-third. Let it cool. Then remove every particle of fat. Put in the white meat, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Then pound it very fine in a mortar till it becomes a paste. Return it to the broth, and again simmer as gently as possible for fifteen minutes more. Season very lightly with pepper. Serve cold in a mould. (This valuable recipe was given many years ago by Dr. Alfred Waters, a well-known physician at Chester.) Sole for an Invalid.—Boil the sole thoroughly, and drain it from all water. Fillet it, and send up one fillet at a time, on a perfectly dry and hot plate. The fillet should be rolled, and another kept in readiness to go up at once if the invalid should fancy it. Any delay will take away a sick person’s capricious appetite. The Doctor should be asked if a little minced cooked mushroom may be dusted over the fillet of Sole. If it is explained to him that only mushroom, and no rich sauce, will be added, he will be likely to consent, as mushrooms are light and nourishing, and the flavour tempting. A Sole boiled in milk instead of water is often liked by Invalids.SOLE FOR AN INVALID 435 Another way is to put the Sole on a buttered baking-sheet with a buttered paper over it, and to bake it in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes according to the size of the Sole. Then fillet as before. If cooked in this way there can be no risk of wateriness, and the butter which may remain can be wiped off before the Sole is filleted. Mutton Cutlet for an Invalid.—Take three of the nicest cutlets from the middle of a neck of mutton. Trim one of the cutlets very neatly, and trim the other two so as to project beyond it. Tie the three together with the invalid’s cutlet in the middle. Turn the three with the cutlet-tongs over and over till they are done. All the gravy will be concentrated in the centre or invalid’s cutlet. Send this cutlet up to the invalid, using the others in the dining-room. If allowed, a mouthful of mashed potato or potato snow may be sent up with it, but many doctors now think potatoes unwholesome. In this case a spoonful of spinach puree or Jerusalem artichoke puree may be substituted, if liked. Or the mutton may be lightly cooked, very finely minced, egged and breadcrumbed, and delicately fried. Cooked in this way no knife will be required to cut it. The fillet from a Saddle of Mutton makes a perfect dish for an invalid, far better than a cutlet. Chicken for an Invalid.—Steam the Chicken for two hours and a half. Cut off the fillets, and use these only for the Invalid. A few little slices can be laid on a buttered baking-tin, covered with a buttered paper, and just warmed through in the oven. Or the Chicken can be minced very finely, and warmed up, a little at a time, in broth made from the bones and giblets of the Chicken. If allowed, the Chicken can be braised in vegetable stock, constantly basted with the broth, and a fillet or a slice of a fillet served as soon as the Chicken is taken out of the braising-pan. Solid Broth.—(Family Recipe.)—Wipe a knuckle of veal clean, cut it into small pieces, and simmer it in four quarts of water. When it comes to a strong jelly, strain. Next day simmer it again for a short time, and take off all fat. Put the jelly into either a silver stewpan or a china dish, set upon a pot of boiling water. Keep the water boiling. Stir the jelly now and then a little, till it becomes as thick as bird lime (which youFOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS 436 may try upon a plate with a spoon). Then put the Solid Broth into a small jar. (The liquid will be reduced from four quarts to about a pint. Any simple flavouring can be added during the final simmering, such as a few herbs or a little celery seed, securely fastened in a muslin bag.) In the original recipe four knuckles of veal and twelve quarts of water made one pint of Solid Broth. Chicken Broth.—Roast a Chicken for a quarter of an hour only. Cut it into slices, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of cold water. Season very lightly with pepper and salt. Bring it gradually to the boil, and let it simmer very gently. An old fowl will take from four to six hours; a young one three hours. Strain, and take off every particle of fat. The previous roasting of the Chicken much improves the flavour. If the Chicken Broth is liked thick, crushed tapioca is the nicest addition. About two ounces should be simmered in the broth. Sago is also a pleasant addition. Veal Broth.—Take two pounds of leg of Veal, and be most careful that there is no fat with it. Slice the meat into thin shavings with a sharp knife. Put the meat with four ounces of well-washed pearl barley into three pints of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, and simmer for three hours. It will be like thick cream in appearance. Rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and serve with salt in a salt-cellar. Nourishing1 Broth.—Take a knuckle of veal, two pounds of lean beef, a bunch of herbs, and six peppercorns. Put them into five quarts of cold water. Add a little salt. Bring to the boil, and simmer till it is reduced to three pints of broth. Strain and remove the fat. The Invalid’s Soup recommended by Wyvcrn (page 36) is excellent when convalescence is well advanced. Sweetbread for an Invalid.—Prepare the Sweetbread as at page 185 by very careful cleaning and soaking, and by the removal of all tough pieces. Of course the Sweetbread must not be larded. Put it into boiling water, or broth (as allowed or liked), and simmer gently till quite tender. The Sweetbread will take from thirty to forty minutes. Serve perfectly plain. Savoury Custard for an Invalid.—Take two eggs, both whites and yolks, and the yolks only of two more. Beat themSAVOURY CUSTARD FOR AN INVALID 437 well with one gill of clear beef tea, but add no seasoning. Put the Custard into a well-buttered basin, cover the top with a buttered paper, set the basin in the bain-marie, and steam it very slowly. It will take about a quarter of an hour. Let the Custard get quite cold, then turn it out, and cut it into rounds or diamonds with a cutter. Serve with a salt-cellar and pepper- mill, so that the Invalid may add the amount of seasoning liked. Invalid’s Yorkshire Pudding:.—{Family Recipe.)—Mix the yolks of two eggs into two good tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat the whites a little, and stir all together. Bake the batter for ten minutes in rather a quick oven. Sippets.—Have ready a very hot soup-plate, lay on it two or three pieces of stale brown bread cut one inch square. Pour over them as much beef tea, or good clear gravy, as they will absorb, and send up at once, served in the soup-plate. Macaroni and Gravy.—Boil an ounce or more of pipe Macaroni in boiling salted water for fifteen minutes (see page 411). Drain it thoroughly, and return it to the hot, dry pan. Add a teacupful of clear gravy, simmer gently till the Macaroni has absorbed most of it, and serve in a hot soup-plate. Before adding the gravy cut the Macaroni into quarter-inch lengths. Stewed SagO.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a teacupful of the large kind of Sago, and steep it for three hours in water. (Two hours is enough for small Sago.) Drain off the water, and put the Sago into a stewpan with one pint of milk. Let it simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Stir it every now and then to prevent any scum from forming at the top. Have ready boiling milk in another pan to add if the Sago should become too thick. It should look like thick cream, and may be eaten hot or cold, with either a little salt or a little sugar, as liked. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken in one quart of water till it is three-parts done, which will probably be in about twenty minutes. Skin it, let it get cold. Then cut off all the white meat, and pound it to a paste in a mortar, moistening it with a little of the water, or eau de cuisson, the chicken was boiled in. Season with merely a dust of salt. Now boil the Panada for a few minutes gently, till it becomes of the right consistency. It should be tolerably thick, but sufficiently liquid for the invalid toFOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS 433 drink it. Serve the Panada hot, with salt in a salt-cellar. Chicken Panada is nourishing, and nearly always liked. Rusk Panada with Custard.—Crumble some rusks, or use freshly-made breadcrumbs dried. Steep the crumbs in hot water till they have absorbed it. Simmer the crumbs in a little more water. Make a thin custard with the yolk of an egg and a little new milk, mix it thoroughly with the Panada. This Panada is best eaten cold. Jelly for Invalids.—(Jelly for invalids must never be stiffened with gelatine, but served broken up. It looks tempting when served in the little white china souffle cases, or the coloured fire-proof china ramakin cases.) Calf’s Foot Jelly.—For this see page 190. A little lemon- juice gives a pleasant flavour, and is generally allowed. Beef Jelly.—Mince with a knife two pounds of beef as finely as possible. Put the meat in a jar, and cover the jar closely with paste. Put the jar in a saucepan filled with cold water, and let it stand in a slack oven for six hours. Strain the jelly through a sieve, then through muslin, and finally through clean white blotting paper. For Chicken Jelly see page 266. Restorative Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—Take two ounces of isinglass, two ounces of white sugar candy, and half an ounce of gum arabic grated. Steep these in a pint of port wine for twelve hours. Put the jar containing these ingredients in a saucepan of cold water, and let it get gradually warm. Simmer till the isinglass is quite melted, but simmer as slowly as possible. Do not strain the jelly, which will be quite thick. Break up a tablespoonful for use at a time. Farinaceous Jelly.—Boil two ounces of pearl barley, of sago, and of rice, all well washed, in two quarts of water. Stir them well whilst boiling with a wooden spoon. When quite tender, strain through a sieve. Flavour with lemon-juice and a little sugar. Bread Jelly.—(Sir Henry Halford, Bart., M.D. 1830.)— Cut off the top of a twopenny roll, cut the remaining part into thin shoes, and toast them of a pale brown, very hard. Put the toasted slices of bread into three pints of water, let it boil very gently until you find it congeal (which you will soon know by. BREAD JELLY 439 holding a little of the water in a spoon), then strain it very care- fully, without breaking the toast, or the jelly will be thick. Sweeten it a little. (One spoonful of this jelly was said by Sir Henry Halford to be equal to three of any other.) Tapioca jelly.—Soak three ounces of tapioca in a quart of cold water for three hours. Then add a strip of thin lemon-peel and simmer gently till the tapioca turns to a jelly. Take out the lemon-peel before serving, and sweeten a little if liked. Rice Jelly.—Well wash half a pound of Carolina Rice, and boil it with either a strip of lemon-peel or a little piece of cinnamon (as liked), in two quarts of water for one hour. Pass it through a sieve, and when cold it will be a firm jelly. Add one pint of milk and boil all together for a short time, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Strain it, sweeten a little and serve warm. It will resemble thick milk. Rice Pudding: fop an Invalid.—Take half an ounce of well-washed rice, and soak it for an hour in a quarter of a pint of milk. Bake in a slow oven for an hour or more till the rice is thoroughly cooked. Bake it in a little fire-proof ramakin case, and serve in this, with a teaspoonful of strawberry or apricot jam on the top. Oatmeal Gruel.—Use only the best fine Oatmeal, for the coarser kind would disagree. Keep Oatmeal in a very dry place, for if it gets the least damp it will have a disagreeable bitter taste. Groats are the grain or kernel of the oat, freed from the husk. Emden Groats, prepared at Emden, in Friesland, are con- sidered to be the best. Oatmeal Gruel if properly made is as nutritious as it is digestible. Gruel.—Mix two dessertspoonfuls of Oatmeal very smoothly in a little cold water. Put it into a pint of fast boiling water, and stir well with a wooden spoon till it thickens, which will be in about ten minutes. If the Gruel is liked quite thin serve at once; if liked rather thick set the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let the Oatmeal cook for half an hour, giving it a good stir from time to time. Or, boil a quarter of a pint of Groats in a quart of water for two hours, and strain it through a sieve, and add half a pint of milk. Serve with salt. Or, put half a pint of fine Oatmeal into a large basin, stir intoFOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS 44° it one pint of cold water, then strain it through a fine strainer into a saucepan. Stir in half a pint of boiling water, and boil it for ten minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon. Add a pinch of salt, and stir in a tablespoonful or more of cream, just before taking it from the fire. (Butter is sometimes put into gruel, but it generally spoils it. Of course sugar can be added in- stead of salt, and wine or brandy can, if ordered, be added instead of the cream.) Egg Gruel.—Boil half a pint of new milk, beat a fresh egg to a light froth, and stir it into the milk, off the fire. Add a little salt, and serve as soon as the Gruel is cool enough to drink. Queen Charlotte’s Caudle.—Stir a pint of cold water into half a pint of oatmeal, and strain through a fine strainer into a saucepan. Add a quarter of a pint of Geneva, and the same quantity of sound mild ale, a few raisins, a nutmeg grated, a little ground ginger, and a little sugar. Boil for ten minutes, and serve hot to the company in cups. (This was the Caudle given to visitors calling on a lady just after her confinement. It was considered very ill-bred not to call to “ taste the caudle.” Geneva was the word for Gin, from genievre, the French name for the juniper berries with which Gin is flavoured. “ Caudle ” is a corruption of CdUdum, a hot drink.) Arrowroot.—Arrowroot is no longer considered to be nutritious in itself ; it simply forms a pleasant medium for milk or brandy. Put one dessertspoonful of Arrowroot into the basin it will be served in, and mix it to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Then add boiling water, stirring all the time, till the Arrowroot is quite clear. Add a glass of sherry, or a dessert- spoonful of brandy, and serve at once, with strips of dry toast. (Aged patients generally enjoy this way of serving Arrowroot.) Another way is to mix half a pint of boiling milk with the Arrow- root instead of the boiling water. Allow a dessertspoonful of Arrowroot as before, and flavour with a thin strip of lemon-peel. When the Arrowroot is quite dissolved in the milk, take out the lemon-peel and serve. Thick Barley Water.—Thick Barley Water is much more nutritious than Clear Barley Water. Well wash two ounces of pearl barley, then put it into plenty of cold water and blanch itTHICK BARLEY WATER 441 by boiling it for ten minutes. Throw away the water, and wash the barley again. Boil the barley very gently in a quart of water for two hours. Put in one lump of sugar, strain the water from the barley, and serve cold in a jug. Barley Milk.—Wash four ounces of pearl barley. Boil it gently with the peel of half a lemon in two quarts of water, till it is reduced to one quart. Strain, and put the liquid back into the saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of milk. Warm it up as required, but never let it boil. Or, boil half a pound of washed pearl barley in a quart of milk mixed with half a pint of water. Reduce to a pint, then sweeten it a little, boil again, and serve to be taken when nearly cold. Rice Milk.—Simmer one ounce of well-washed rice in a pint of milk for one hour. Put in a small lump of sugar just before it is done. Sago Milk .—Soak the Sago in cold water for an hour, and then wash it in fresh water. Allow a teacupful of Sago to a quart of milk. Simmer slowly till it is diminished to a pint. It requires no seasoning. Luncheon for an Invalid.—Put alternate layers of sifted dried breadcrumbs and currant jelly into a large tumbler. When the tumbler is nearly half full fill it up with cold new milk. HOT DRINKS FOR A COLD. Treacle Posset.—Boil half a pint of milk, and as soon as it boils add a quarter of a pint of golden syrup. (This will posset, or curdle, the milk.) Let it boil up again, strain it, and serve it hot, to be taken in bed. Lemon Posset.—(Family Recipe.)—Put a good handful of dried breadcrumbs into a quart of water, simmer it to a pint, with a strip of lemon-peel boiled in it. Add the juice of a lemon, four eggs, and a gill of sherry. Stir well, add the eggs off the fire. Then warm the Posset up, and sweeten it a little. White Wine Whey.—Boil half a pint of milk, add a lump of sugar, and a wineglassful of sherry. Boil all up together, strain, and send the Whey up, to be taken hot in bed.442 SOOTHING DRINKS FOR A COLD. Linseed Tea.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a teacupful of linseed and two ounces of liquorice root. Pour over this three pints of boiling water, and simmer for one hour and a half. Or, put four tablespoonfuls of linseed, four lumps of sugar, and the rind and juice of one lemon, into a quart of boiling water. Let it stand for half an hour, strain, and serve cold in a jug. (Linseed, which is flax seed, is most soothing in a severe cold or hoarseness.) Barley Water with Honey.—Put two teacupfuls of well- washed pearl barley into a large jug, with the juice and rind of one lemon, and one tablespoonful of honey. Pour a quart of boiling water upon it, let it stand for half an hour, strain off the liquid, and serve. For Leek Milk see page 346. REFRESHING DRINKS. For Lemonade, Orangeade, Raspberry Vinegar, Clear Barley Water, and Toast and Water, see Chapter XIV. Lemon Drink.—Slice a lemon, take out the seeds, and pour a pint of boiling water over the slices. When quite cold, strain it, and add a very little sifted sugar. Orange and Lemon Drink.—Cut up two oranges and one lemon, put the slices into a jug with one ounce of sugar candy. Pour into the jug a quart of boiling water, and stir occasionally. When quite cold serve without straining. The orange and lemon pips must be taken out. Drink a little of the liquid at a time. Tamarind Whey.—Boil two ounces of tamarinds in two pints of milk. When the tamarinds are dissolved, strain and serve cold. Apple Water.—Cut three large apples into slices, but do not remove either peel, core, or pips. Pour a quart of boiling water on the apples, cover the jug, and let it stand till quite cold. Strain, add a squeeze of lemon, and a very little sugar. Or boil the sliced apples with a strip of lemon-peel for one hour. Boil very gently, and then cover the jug till the liquid is quite cold. Strain, and add a very little powdered sugar.LEMON WHEY 443 Lemon Whey.—Boil together a pint of milk and a pint of water, then add the juice of two lemons, and let it simmer five minutes. Put in a lump or two of sugar well rubbed on the rinds of the lemons. Strain the Whey. It is generally liked warm. CORDIALS. Port Wine Cordial.—Wash four ounces of pearl barley, put it with a strip of lemon-peel into two quarts of water, and boil slowly till it is reduced to one quart. Strain it, put it back in the saucepan, add three-quarters of a pint of port wine, and a little sugar. Make it quite hot, and give a teacupful several times a day. Egg Cordial.—(Countess Munster.)—Take a tablespoonful of cream, the white of a very fresh egg, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Whip the egg nearly to a froth, then whip the cream with the egg. Add the brandy by degrees, and mix well. Do not let it stand after it is made. This Cordial is very light and nourishing. Brandy Cordial.—Mix together a gill of brandy and a gill of thick barley water, and beat it well up with the yolks of two eggs and a teaspoonful of sugar. In cases of great exhaustion give two tablespoonfuls every half-hour or oftener. Cordial in cases of extreme Prostration.—(Sir William Jenner, Bart., M.D.)—Mix one claretglass of the best champagne you can get with half a claretglass of the richest cream. In cases of extreme prostration from fever give this quantity every hour. Eg’g’ beaten up in Sherry or Brandy.—Divide the yolk from the white, and beat up the yolk for one meal, and the white for another. In this way the beverage is lighter than when yolk and white are beaten up together. Eg’g’ with Champagne.—Beat the yolk of an egg well, and put it into a champagne glass. Fill the glass from a freshly- opened bottle of champagne. Patients who dislike the taste of a raw egg can often be persuaded to swallow this, as the champagne froths and conceals the flavour of the egg. In cases of great exhaustion a few drops of brandy may be beaten up with the egg. Hen’s Milk.—Beat up two yolks of fresh eggs in one ounce of brandy, stir them into a teacupful of boiling water, and serve444 CORDIALS as soon as it is cool enough to swallow. Always remove the germ when eggs are beaten up. Or instead of brandy beat up the yolks of egg with enough orange-flower water to turn them white, and then stir them into the boiling water. A little sugar may be added in this case, but the delicate flavour of the orange- flowers is generally preferred without it. Hen’s Milk is extremely nutritious if beef tea is used instead of the boiling water. The egg should be beaten up by itself first, and the hot beef tea gradually added to it. ADDITIONAL RECIPES. American Crust Coffee.—Cut some thin slices of stale bread, and bake them in the oven till they are quite dark brown. Pound the slices in a mortar. Boil one ounce of crumbs in half a pint of water in a small saucepan. Take it off the fire, let it stand for a few minutes, and then strain the liquid through a fine tin strainer into a breakfast cup. Serve hot. An invalid often enjoys sipping this Crust Coffee, which is quite as wholesome and nourishing as our English Toast and Water. Iced Drinks for Invalids. — These should always be prepared by icing the outside of the tumbler or glass, and by using one of the tumblers with a handle containing a pocket for holding a piece of ice. Ice put into the liquid destroys the flavour and weakens the strength of whatever is given; and, besides this, ice is not always made from perfectly pure water. If ice is given to the patient to suck, the greatest care must be taken that the water was pure before it was frozen. In severe suffering from nausea a morsel of ice dipped in lightly-frothed white of egg gives not only great relief but a certain amount of support. Another form of iced nourishment, also most valuable in severe nausea, is a teaspoonful of cream beaten up in a table- spoonful of well-iced champagne. But, above all, the ice must be free from any taint of impurity. Infant’s Food.—I am tempted to publish this recipe because I have known it to suit babies of a few weeks old who were actually dying of starvation because they could digest nothing. In a day or two they began to revive, and in a few weeks they were nearly strong. Later they were perfectly strong, fat, and healthy. The food is troublesome to make, and must be madeINFANT’S FOOD 445 fresh every day, but who, in such cases, would grudge any amount of trouble ? Take one pint and a half of skimmed milk, and scald it. Then add a piece of cured rennet (or bagskin) about an inch square to the milk, and set it aside to curdle. Heat the milk again, and strain it through a sieve. Add to it one pint of new milk, and six lumps of sugar. This is the baby’s food for the day. Essence of Rennet does not answer for this food. To prepare the Rennet take out the stomach of a calf just killed, and scour it well with salt and water both inside and out. Let it drain. Then put two large handfuls of salt into it, and sew it up. Dry it, and soak a bit in fresh water when wanted for use. Food fop a Child from Six Weeks Old, when the Digestion is Delicate and the Brain too Active.—One teacupful of well-washed pearl barley thoroughly boiled in a pint and a half of water, wdth one teaspoonful of carraway seeds. Strain, and give in the bottle every three hours. As the child gets older, boil the barley longer, so as to make the food as thick as liquid jelly. At eight months old cook some Robb’s biscuits with the barley. When the child is ten months old begin spoon- food—that is, bread and milk, and a little beef tea. For young children subject to sleeplessness and brain irrita- tion, no food is better than this. This recipe and the former one have commended themselves to me from personal knowledge of their efficacy.446 CHAPTER XVI. ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. The first Earl of Dudley, who died in 1833, was one of the most celebrated gourmets of his day. He declared with truth that a good soup, a small turbot, a neck of venison, ducklings with green peas or chicken with asparagus, and a green apricot tart, was a dinner for an emperor, and that such a dinner could only be served in England. It is much to be regretted that in these days dinners of simple, wholesome excellence, such as Lord Dudley’s, have too often given place to a number of “messy attempts to keep pace with foreign cookery,” and to an unfor- tunate habit, not only of gaudy colouring of entrees, but of trying to make things look what they are not. To this class belong horse-shoe shapes of creme-de-volaille studded with truffles to imitate nails; shapes like playing-cards with the “pips” imitated in tongue or truffles; royal initials and laurel wreaths carried out in morsels of chervil; and, worst of all, moulds to represent birds or animals, for which one well-known cookery book suggests glass eyes as a great improvement. In sweet cookery yellow and pink colouring may be allowed, but i^ everything to do with meat brown and white are the only colours which should be seen, with the addition of ham or tongue, and the green of vegetable. Coloured patterns traced on meat by forcing-pipes are absurd as well as vulgar, and they do not tend to make an appetising dish. It is curious that this fashion of colouring food seems to repeat itself at intervals. When Lord Bacon complained of what was in his time carpet gardening, he said: “You may see as good sights, many times, in tarts.” Miss EdgeworthENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY 447 mentions the desert island at Rosamond’s wedding dinner, on which the bride and bridegroom were represented by two figures seated on a mount, with a piece of rock-candy at their feet, and gravel walks of shot comfits intersecting the island in all direc- tions. But we have gone beyond all this in the present fashion of many colours and so-called decorations. It is true now, as Dr. Johnson said, that “ wherever the dinner is ill got there is “ poverty, or there is avarice, or there is stupidity. In short, “ the family is somehow grossly wrong, for a man seldom thinks “ with more earnestness of anything than he does of his dinner, “ and if he cannot get that well dressed he should be suspected “ of inaccuracy in other things.” * English cooks should pride themselves on preparing our excellent English meat, fish and vegetables as well as possible, observing the most scrupulous cleanliness, wasting nothing that can be used, and serving every dish with the utmost neatness. Great attention should be paid to delicate flavouring, and to the preparation of those sauces which often make all the difference between the clumsy and the artistic serving of a dinner. Bread Sauce and Melted Butter ought never to fail in excellence, especially as they are the two standard English sauces. Indeed, Melted Butter has often been called our only sauce, and yet how seldom it is made properly ! When Baron Hullock died, some fifty years ago, a legal contem- porary of his exclaimed with genuine emotion, “ What an “ irreparable loss ! He was a good man, an excellent man. He “ had the best melted butter I ever tasted in my life ! ” The difference between a gourmet and a gourmand cannot be better shown than by comparing the dinner chosen by Lord Dudley and the favourite dishes of Dr. Johnson. A goxmnet indulges a delicate and fastidious taste; a gourmand swallows quantities of the food which pleases a generally coarse palate. Dr. Johnson’s special dainties, according to Mrs. Thrale (“ Anecdotes of the late Samuel Johnson, LL.D.,” page 102), were “a leg of “pork boiled till it dropped from the bone, a veal-pye with “ plums and sugar, or the outside cut of a salt buttock of beef.” Of these dishes Dr. Johnson would eat enormous quantities and in great haste, and so totally absorbed was he in his food that he did not even pay attention to remarks addressed to him. After * “ Life of Dr. Johnson.” G. B. Hill. Vol. i, p. 467.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY 448 dinner he would pour melted butter as well as cream into his chocolate, and it was not unusual for him to finish the lobster sauce by spreading all that remained of it on his plum-pudding. In spite of these coarse habits Dr. Johnson often boasted of the niceness of his palate. Possibly he was rather a glutton than a gourmand. The French people have a wonderful talent for making good dishes out of nothing, and for using everything to the utmost. Years ago, a writer in Blackwood, speaking of French Home Life, maintained that the nation as a rule was too wise as well as too poor to be extravagant. But then, “ the “ French nation, poor and saving as it is, requires that each dish “ shall be itself, with its full aroma, its full essence, its own “ character. The nation knows, by long experience, that poverty “ does not prevent the exercise of skill; it sets the latter off “ against the former—it replaces money by intelligence. . . . “ In France, the phrase Good Cookery has a meaning that we do “ not know. It signifies something more than cunning variety, “ skilful handling, and pretty serving-up. The deepest sense of “ the two words lies in the possession by every plat of the “ particular taste which is proper to it.” But, as a French gentle- man said to an old friend of mine, “ En Angleterre on se nourrit bien, mais on ne dine pas.” The motto of the French cook is “ Cuisiniez doucement”—that is, never use a bigger fire than is wanted. The French use wood, which is easily kept down to a low smoulder and easily roused up to activity in five minutes. They know nothing of our fierce coal fires, which alas! are often kept as ready to roast an ox as to boil a tea-kettle. The French cook, again, boils nothing but the harder vegetables. Our English boiling is well described by the writer in BlacJnvood. ‘ ‘ What we call ‘ boiling ’ is one of the “ most senseless acts to which human intelligence can descend; “it is an inexcusable, unjustifiable, wanton folly. ... To “ boil food, be it meat or be it vegetable, is to extract from it, “ first, its volatile aroma, then its essences and juices, and finally “ its power of nutrition. Aroma, essence, juice, and strength go “ into the hot water, leaving behind them the fibre which they “ have quitted.” In England this liquid is too often looked upon as dirty water, only fit to be thrown down the sink, or at the bestENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY 449 “ as hot water stirred with a tallow candle,” which may perhaps be swallowed by the pigs. In France, on the contrary, “ every “ liquid which has received the extracted flavour of a boiled “ substance is looked upon as precious, and is employed again in “ some special form, so as not to waste the properties which it “ has acquired.” If only English cooks would in this follow the example of homely French cooks (not the chefs who come over here) they would cease to be the “ food-spoilers ” which the writer in Blackwood declares that they become after half a lifetime spent in the kitchen—the result of a contemptibly incomplete education in the use and value of the materials they employ. A recent writer in the Westminster Gazette has pointed out that there are three different species of English cooks. (1.) The cook who is born, equipped by nature for her work. (2.) The cook who, having entered by the scullery door, has been in the kitchen all her life and has risen by degrees to her present position. (3.) The wretched incompetent creature who, having tried and failed in other occupations, thinks she would like to be a cook, enters herself at a School of Cookery, pays her fee for certificates and diplomas, and believes herself to be an accom- plished professor of an art in which she has never been grounded. Patience, simplicity, and the learning by one’s own mistakes (all three cardinal virtues in a cook), are not taught in Schools of Cookery. Cooking can only be learned step by step, and through the patient correction of natural blunders and mistakes. It is quite possible that an intelligent and experienced cook may pick up a few hints at a lecture on Cookery, but sound general knowledge must be the foundation, so that the cook may under- stand at once why one ingredient is put in and another left out. I agree with the writer in the Westminster Gazette that “ Cookery “ is not to be learnt in any School of Cookery. Here, as every- “ where else, it is your own mistakes you have got to make, and “ it avails you nothing to sit in a tightly-packed lecture-hall, “ watching a much-waited-upon genius who is naturally making- “ none.” How can a cook direct those working under her if she has not in past years worked her own way patiently up from drudgery and dull work to the place she now fills, thoroughly understanding every detail as the result of personal experience ?45° ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY Nobody has ever yet learnt from the scars on other people’s fingers; everybody must burn their own. The history of French cookery is interesting from its con- nection with the history of France. It began in 1558 with the skilled cooks who attended Catherine de Medicis from Florence on her marriage to Henry II of France. These cooks introduced the fashion of ices into France. One of them had already in- vented the fricandeau for the benefit of Pope Leo X. Villeroi, whose name still survives in menus, was Minister of State under four Kings of France and was the only person trusted by Catherine de Medicis. Louis XIV prided himself as much on his kitchen as on the victories of his armies. Bechamel was his maitre d’hotel. The Prince de Soubise and the Due d’Uxelles, who both invented sauces, were among his Marshals. Liqueurs were invented for Louis XIV, and Madame de Maintenon intro- duced the cutlets still called by her name in order to protect the old king’s stomach from too rich a sauce. Robert, chef to the Archbishop of Aix before the Revolution, had afterwards to keep a cafe, and there made himself famous by his sauce. Talleyrand introduced the custom of eating grated cheese with soup when he was French Ambassador in England after Waterloo. Preparations of potatoes a la Parmentier recall the name of Monsieur Parmentier, who, although he did not introduce potatoes into France, greatly encouraged their cultivation about 1790. A few French dishes are called after places. Thus, Crecy soup takes its name from the specially good carrots grown at Crecy; dishes a la Pretonne from the haricot beans for which Brittany is famous; chicken a la Marengo from Napoleon’s battle in 1800. Garlic, a bulb popular all over the South of France, is generally present in dishes a la Provengale. Sauce d’Argenteuil, for asparagus, takes its name from Argenteuil, where asparagus is chiefly cultivated. In England the custom has been quite different. “ The roast beef of Old England ” gave its name to a well-known tune, but dishes have seldom been called after celebrated men. The names of Wellington, Blucher, and Napoleon, were given to boots ; Lord Brougham’s name will always be associated with the carriage which he invented, and Lord Chesterfield s with the pattern of an overcoat. Even our excellent English dish, theENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY 45i Apple Charlotte, cannot be connected with the austere and frugal Queen Charlotte. Only a few of our puddings are named in the French fashion, such as Victoria Pudding, Sir Watkin’s Pudding, Cabinet Pudding. English people have been content to call their simple dishes after the places famous for them; such as York Hams, Melton Mowbray Pork Pies, Bath Buns, Grantham Gingerbread, and many others. Most entrees therefore must have French names, and in these it is far better to use well- known titles instead of the ridiculous substitutes of cooks and cookery schools in the present day, which can convey no meaning to anybody. In many cases a trivial alteration (or too often a barbarous change), and a new and fanciful name, conceals one of the good entrees devised years ago. There are numbers of French cook’s terms which cannot be found in any dictionary, but Dallas is considered to be the most accomplished philologist in regard to culinary words.* These words are often full of interest. For instance, bouillabaisse is derived from bouillon abaisse, or reduced broth, and originally had no special reference to fish. Fricandeau is a Proven9al word meaning something nice, and is, like fricassee, derived from fric or frique, brisk ; fricancl, dainty ; fricot, a dainty dish. The word has in course of time become associated with a dish of veal only, but this was not the case originally. Civet de lievre comes from the old French word cive, chive, the herb with which the dish is flavoured. Ragout, which now means a stew, really means merely a relish, and Ravigote originally meant a pick-me-up and not a seasoning. Our English word Saveloy is a corruption of the French cei-velle, brains, for this kind of sausage was formerly made of pigs’ brains. Dallas traces the word souchy to the Flemish zootje, a little thing, and says it is as near as possible in root and meaning to the old-English word seethed. In a souchy the fish used are always small, and always seethed or simmered. * See Kettner’s “Book of the Table, 1877.” o g 2452 CHAPTER XVII. ON PASTRY MAKING. The art of making good Pastry is a gift rather than an acquire- ment. It requires a light touch, cool hands, practice, and dexterity, as well as the most scrupulous cleanliness. But any- body who will take pains and closely follow a few simple rules may at least improve in making Pastry, even if perfection in the art cannot be attained. To begin with, Pastry should be made in a cold place, and early in the day. It must be baked as soon as it is made, but it can then be set aside in a cold larder and heated in the oven when required. If paste is left for even twenty minutes before it is baked it will become dull and heavy, instead of being pliant and elastic. Numbers of recipes have been given for Pastry, from which it would appear that there are numbers of kinds of Pastry. But in reality these may be reduced to four. (1) Puff Paste, used for vol-au-vmts, patties, tarts, mince pies, etc. (2) Pie Crust, for meat pies baked in pie-dishes. (3) Raised Pie Crust, for cold game or cold pork pies. (4) Short Crust, made with sugar and used for tarts as well as Puff Paste. Before beginning to make Pastry the cook should have every- thing at hand which she will want, and she must see that the oven will be ready for the paste as soon as it is made. A marble slab is much better for making Pastry than a pastry board, as marble retains cold much more readily than wood, and the slab should be made as cold as possible by pouring very cold water slowly over its surface. The cook must have close to her flour, butter, salt, and a jug of very cold water. In summer iced waterON PASTRY MAKING 453 should be used. The Hour must be dried in the oven and sifted ; the least touch of damp in the flour will ruin any Pastry. The butter must be gently squeezed in a soft cloth so as to get rid of any moisture. Both flour and butter must be of the best, and the quantities of both must be most carefully weighed. Many good Pastry makers prefer clarified beef suet to butter, as it is much firmer than butter. When everything is ready the cook should wash her hands in very hot water, then put them into very cold water, and dry them thoroughly. She should keep a basin of cold water and a towel close to her, so that she may cool her hands from time to time. If she can learn to use two wooden spoons instead of her hands it will be all the better for the Pastry. For Puff Paste, weigh one pound of flour, turn it out upon the marble slab, make a hollow in the middle of it, and fill that with a quarter of a pint of the cold water, and half an ounce of salt. Mix the flour gradually with the water, and when this is done and the paste half mixed sprinkle over it by degrees as much more cold water as may be needed to form the dough. This can be ascertained by pressing the flour; if it is at all crumbly a little more water is needed ; if it sticks to the hands it is too moist, and a little more flour must be dredged over and worked in. Mix it all thoroughly together, until it ceases to adhere to the slab, pat it with two wooden spoons into a round ball, cover it with a cloth, and let it rest ten minutes. All this can be done quite as well in a roomy basin, set on ice in summer ; if the dough is properly mixed the basin will be quite clean when the dough is used to wipe it out. Work it lightly and gradually; never use strength or pressure, for the less the dough is kneaded the lighter the Puff Paste will be. Now take one pound weight of firm butter, which has been previously squeezed free from moisture. Or take the same weight of clarified suet, pounded in a mortar till it is quite pliant. Flour the marble slab, flatten out the ball of paste into a square about two inches thick, and spread the butter evenly over the surface. Never roll the dough and butter together with the palms of your hands ; if you cannot manage the wooden spoons use the tips of your fingers. Dip your fingers often in dry flour, and work the butter gradually into the dough. Leave a three-inch margin of paste beyond theON PASTRY MAKING 454 butter. Now fold the four sides of the paste to the centre, enclosing the butter, and forming, of course, a smaller square piece. Flour the slab and the rolling-pin lightly; if you use too much flour the paste will be heavy. In rolling Pastry press it a little, and then roll straight before you, with an even, light pressure. Always stop rolling before you come to the edge. Great care is necessary to prevent the butter from breaking through the dough as it is rolled out. Begin by rolling the paste out evenly nearly a yard long, then fold over one-third of the length towards the centre, and fold the other third over it. This folding in three is called “ giving the paste one turn.” Boll it out and fold it a second time, then let the paste rest for ten minutes. Reverse the rolling, and give the paste two turns more, and another rest for ten minutes. Then two turns more and a third rest. The reason for these rests is that if the paste is not cooled between the rollings the friction of the rolling-pin will melt the butter and make the dough greasy. In summer the rests should be managed by putting the paste on a dish over a shallow baking- tin filled with broken ice, with another baking-tin, also filled with ice, above it. The colder the paste is kept the lighter the Pastry will be when finished. Flour the rolling-pin with the dredger between each turn. Six turns are required for Puff Paste. When the paste is ready fold it in three once more, and again let it rest, covered with a cloth. Finally, lay it on the marble slab, roll it out the thickness required, and cut it as may be wished. For tarts the thickness is generally about a quarter of an inch. For cases of Puff- Paste, made for patties and vol-au-vents, the thickness is half an inch to three- quarters of an inch. Puff Paste rises as much as eight times the height it was before baking if the paste has been properly made and properly baked. For patties, cut the paste into rounds with a two and a half inch cutter, and cut the middle out of each round with a smaller cutter, leaving a half-inch border and going only half the depth of the round. Bake on a baking-tin for a quarter of an hour. Each case should be filled with raw rice laid on a piece of paper to preserve the shape. When they are baked take out the papers of rice and fill the cases with whatever mixture is wanted, using a small teaspoon or eggspoon. If lids are wanted for the patties cut them rather455 ON PASTRY MAKING larger than the rounds and bake them separately, as they will not take nearly so long to bake. The lids are cut larger because they shrink a little in baking. The case for a vol-au-vmt must be as light as possible. To make it, half a pound of Puff Paste rolled three-quarters of an inch thick will be required. Cut out of this as nearly as possible an oval, nine and a half inches long, made by laying a pie-dish of that size on the paste and drawing the knife round it. Put the oval on a buttered baking-dish, and mark out a second oval inside it, leaving an inch margin all round and making the cut a quarter of an inch deep. Brush the surface and side with a beaten egg, and put the case in the oven. When it is baked the oval wall will have risen considerably. Take off the smaller oval, which will form the cover, and scoop out the uncooked paste inside the case, being careful not to break the wall. The baking will take from thirty to forty minutes in a hot oven. Brush over the whole case again with egg, and bake it again for five minutes. Take the case hot from the oven, fill it as may be liked, pour in enough hot sauce to moisten the contents well without overfilling the vol-au-vent, lay the hot cover on the top, and serve at once in a hot entree dish. Nothing is better than a well-made vol-au-vent, with a case as light as its name implies, and filled with a carefully-made ragout, either white or brown. Yeal or Sweetbread is often liked for the ragout. About three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked veal will be wanted, cut with a round cutter into three dozen pieces a quarter of an inch thick and one inch in diameter. For the sauce, make a good broth with vegetables, a pound of veal stock-meat, and half a pound of veal bones, and turn it into a sauce with the usual roux. Simmer the sauce with half a pound of mushrooms, and reduce it to a pint and a quarter from the original pint and a half. Add, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs which have been carefully stirred into a coffeecupful of the broth. Heat up the meat to half-boiling, add the sauce through a strainer, and keep all hot in the bain-marie till ready to serve in the vol-au-vmt. Be careful not to scoop out too much of the uncooked inner paste, or the bottom of the vol-au-vent case will not be strong enough to hold the ragout and sauce. Oysters are popular in a vol-au-vmt. Three dozen will be wanted, and the sauce must be made ofON PASTRY MAKING 456 their liquor ancl beards. For more than a quarter of a pint of sauce additional sauce oysters must be used. Simmer the oysters for the vol-au-vmt for six minutes. A vol-au-vent an mai/jre can be made with quenelles of fish, pieces of boiled fish, and mushrooms warmed up in a simple white sauce, like the Dutch beurre fonclu, to which the stewed mushrooms have been added. Pie Crust.—Put one pound of well-dried and sifted flour in an enamelled iron basin, make a hollow in the centre, and work into it eleven ounces of butter or firm clarified suet, cut into pieces, adding a teaspoonful of salt. When mixed, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and sprinkle over it by degrees as much iced water as required to form a thoroughly smooth dough. Dredge some flour over the slab, and roll the paste out half an inch thick. Fold it in three, roll it out again, and again fold it. Set it aside to rest, covered with a cloth, in a cold place. Repeat this until the paste has had seven or eight turns. Then fold it up, cover with a cloth, and let it rest for a quarter of an hour. Finally, roll it out half an inch thick and cut the cover for the meat pie. [Wyrern.] See for Pies, Chapter VII. To cover the pie, set the empty dish upside down on the paste, and cut the cover an inch and a half larger than the dish. Use the rest of the paste for the Jieuron, and for a strip to cover the rim of the dish. Let this strip fit quite easily, and project a little over the rim. Press the strip to make it stick to the dish. This must be done before the pie is filled. Flaky Crust for a Cold Pie.—(For this recipe I am in- debted to the author of A Younger Son’s Cookery Book, by A Younger Son's Daughter, published by Messrs. Bentley, 1896.)— For a moderate-sized pie-dish take about half a poimd of flour, and make up with water in the ordinary way, but without mixing in any fat or butter whatever. Now take, for the above quan- tity, from five to six ounces of butter (not lard), and cut it into even slices about the size and thickness of a penny. On a sufficient space on the board in front of you sift enough flour to cover it very thickly (to the depth say of one-eighth of an inch). On this lay some of the flakes of butter (not too close together), and sift more flour over them, so as to bury them quite. Thus protected, roll them out very gently till about the thickness of stout brown paper, then take up each on a knife, lay it aside onON PASTRY MAKING 457 a plate, and so on till all are done. Now clear away the superfluous dour, form the paste into an oblong piece as before, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and arrange over one half of it as many of the butter flakes as there is room for. Double the other half of the paste over these, press the edges together, roll out again, and repeat till all the butter is thus- used up. For Raised Pie Crust see page 236. Short Crust for Tarts.—Take a pound of flour, ten ounces of firm fresh butter, two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, two eggs, and a little milk. Mix together the flour, sugar, and a pinch of salt, with the butter; work this well, then add the two eggs well beaten, and lastly sufficient milk to form a pliant paste. When this has been done cover the paste with a cloth and let it remain in a cool place for half an hour. \Wyvern.'] If a simple icing is liked, moisten the paste with a little cold water as soon as the tart is covered and before it is baked, sift sugar thickly over it, and press it lightly on. Or, for a whiter icing, draw the tart from the oven when it is nearly baked, first brush it over with white of egg whisked to a froth, then sift plenty of sugar over it and finish with a few drops of water sprinkled over the crust. Put the tart back in the oven at once to finish baking. Another Short Crust, most useful for little savouries, is made of six ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, two yolks of egg, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Mix as for Sweet Short Crust. See also the biscuits recommended for serving with Spinach, page 361. Pastry for Cheese Straws.—Take six ounces of flour, four of butter, three of grated cheese, a dust only of salt, cayenne pepper as may be liked, and for the above quantities two yolks of egg. Rub the butter into the flour, add the egg, but do not add any water. Mix the pepper thoroughly in. Do not actually roll the paste, but rather press it out into a strip a quarter of an inch thick and four inches wide. Cut strips of the paste the size of a straw, using a very sharp knife. Lay them on a buttered baking sheet, being careful in handling them, as they are very brittle. Bake in a slow oven till the straws are a pale fawn colour, and quite crisp. A teaspoonful of mustard flour is often considered45S ON PASTRY MAKING an improvement. Some cooks have a plan of making quantities of Cheese Straws at once, and keeping them in a biscuit-tin to be heated up when required. This custom should never be allowed, as the Cheese Straws soon get stale, and even musty. The greatest attention must be paid to the state of the oven in Pastry making. It must be hot and brisk enough to raise the Pastry, but not so fierce as to scorch it. Burnt Pastry is a sign not only of too fierce an oven but of a careless cook.459 CHAPTER XVIII. SWEET DISHES. Tarts and Compotes.—The Lord Dudley already referred to would never sit down to dinner without being certain that an Apple Pie would be served. He scorned the name of Apple Tart, declaring that the word tart meant open pastry, only fit, in his opinion, for children and servants. An Apple Pie is really the only tart which is good when served hot. Various plans have been suggested for overcoming the difficulty of baking the crust without baking the fruit, but the problem has at length been solved by Mrs. Earle. She says : “ All my tarts throughout the “ year are made with the crust baked apart, and the fruit, stewed “ previously, juicy and cold. Shortly before dinner make the “ paste; crumple up kitchen paper into a mound the height you “ wTish your crust to be, place it in the pie-dish—the round- “ shaped dishes are the prettiest—cover this with a clean sheet “ of buttered paper, lay your paste over this, bake in the usual “ way. When done lift off the crust, take out the paper, pour in “ the fruit (which can be iced if desired), put a little raw white “ of egg round the rim of the pie-dish, and replace the crust. In “ this way an orange or a strawberry tart can be made without “ cooking the fruit at all, except in the usual compote wray of “ pouring boiling syrup over it.” [Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden, page 27.] Apple Pie.—(Family Recipe.)—Always use one of the six- penny pie-cups with a perforated stem, and a deep pie-dish. The pie-cup prevents the juice from running out of the pie. Always leave a little hole at the top of the pie ; this chimney allows the gas which is generated in cooking to escape. Pare some Apples as thinly as possible and core them.460 SWEET DISHES Throw the peel and all the pips and cores into a quarter of a pint (or less) of cold water, and let them stew in a covered pan for half an hour. Quarter the Apples, and put them in the pie-dish, piling them high round the cup. Add three ounces of moist sugar, four cloves, and the grated rind of half a lemon. When the liquid from the pips, cores, and peel is nearly, but not quite, cold, strain it, and add it to the Apples. It gives a far better flavour than plain water. Cover the Apple Pie, except the chimney, with short crust made by rubbing six ounces of butter into a pound of well-dried flour, mix in six ounces of sugar, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten, with as much water as will make the crust stiff. Bake from half an hour to forty minutes. The oven should be very quick at first, and moderate afterwards. Mrs. Earle has made the valuable discovery that four or five peach leaves, picked fresh from the trees, immensely improve the flavour of an Apple Pie. Before serving lift off the crust and take out the peach leaves. Compotes.—The secret of making good Compotes lies in the fact that fruits with tough skins, such as gooseberries and currants, must be stewed for some time in an earthenware dish in the oven. Soft fruit, like strawberries and raspberries, would be quite spoilt by this treatment, and only need to have boiling syrup poured over them. All summer compotes should be iced. “ Orange Compote depends almost entirely on the goodness of “ the oranges, and on the way they are cut. The best plan is to “ stick them on a fork, and with a sharp-pointed kitchen knife “ remove at one cutting all the peel and all the white. Then “ with the sharp point of a knife cut out all the pieces of orange “ between the white lines, leaving the white in the middle. “ Save all the juice, and cut small shreds of the peel without any “ white, put them into some water with sugar and the juice, and “ if the oranges are very sweet add a little lemon-juice. Boil up “ this syrup, pour it over the pieces of orange, and allow it to “ cool. This is a good foundation for any winter Compote. “ Another excellent winter compote is made by cutting up a “ ripe pineapple (often so cheap), stewing the peel in a syrup, to “ which is added the juice that runs out of the pineapple and a “ little ginger. Strain, and pour it boiling hot over the pieces of461 COMPOTES “ pineapple. A few bananas cut up and added to the pineapple “ improve it. In October the very cheap, large melons brought “ from abroad make a very good compote if the hard outside is “ taken off and the pulp cut into pieces the size of a plum. “ Make a syrup of sugar flavoured with the melon-rind, spice, a “ bay-leaf, and a little powdered ginger. Boil this up and pour “ it over the pieces of melon.” [Mrs. C. W. Earle.'] Rhubarb Compote.—“ When the Rhubarb is young and tender, “ cut it up into pieces the length of a finger, and throw them into “ cold water to prevent the ends drying, while a syrup is being “ prepared in an earthenware saucepan with sugar, a few of the “ rough pieces of the rhubarb, and a small piece of ginger. “ Throw the cold water away from the rhubarb, strain the syrup, “ boil it up, and pour it over the pieces. Stew it for a very “ short time till tender, without mashing it up. It looks better “ if the pieces are slightly arranged in the dish. If anything “ iron touches the rhubarb or the syrup they turn purple and “ look horrid. Properly cooked rhubarb should be of a pretty “ pink or green colour.” [Mrs. C. W. Earle.] Dried American Apples make an excellent Compote if soaked in syrup for at least twelve hours. It will hardly be believed that the fourth Earl of Aberdeen—Byron’s “ travelled Thane, Athenian Aberdeen ”—coldly thanked a friend at Washington for sending him some barrels of the finest American apples, saying that, as he considered all apples to be turnips growing on trees, he was not an apple-eater. This was in 1812, when such a present was rarely received in this country. Compote of Green Gooseberries.—Top and tail the gooseberries, and simmer them very gently in syrup for ten minutes. For a pint of Gooseberries allow five ounces of sugar and half a pint of water, boiled together gently for ten minutes, and the syrup then freed from scum. Green Apricot Compote.—Wipe the down from a pound of very young apricots (those which are thinned from the trees), and simmer them as gently as possible for twenty minutes. For the syrup allow eight ounces of sugar to three-quarters of a pint of water. The thinnings of (Grapes can be done in the same way. Always use an enamelled pan, so as to preserve the colour of the fruit.SWEET DISHES 462 Compote, of Black Currants.—Strip a pint of currants from the stalks, being careful not to break the skins. Simmer them in a closed pan for fifteen minutes. Strew six ounces of sugar over the currants, and let the pan stay on a very low fire for another quarter of an hour. Do not stir the fruit in any way, but shake the pan gently now and then. Set it to cool. Whip half a pint of cream to a froth, flavour it with sugar only. Arrange a ring of neat croutons of sponge cake crisped in the oven, lay the whipped cream inside this, and the black currants in the middle. Red Currant Compote.—Simmer the fruit five minutes. Morelia Cherries make an excellent Compote. Stone them, simmer them as gently as possible from five to seven minutes. For a pound and a quarter of cherries allow five ounces of sugar to half a pint of water. Compote of Prunes.—Put a pound of good Prunes into an enamelled saucepan with two ounces of sugar, the finely peeled rind of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and enough light claret to cover the fruit well. Stew very gently, so that the Prunes may swell and absorb some of the liquid. When quite tender, put them into a glass dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, add the syrup in which they were stewed, and, if liked, a glass of cherry brandy. Let them get quite cold—if necessary over ice—and hand with them plain cream in a jug. Compote of Chestnuts.—Choose thirty good sound large chest- nuts, take off their brown skins, put them into warm water over the fire for a minute or two, and when getting hot take them off and peel off their red skins. Make a pint of weak syrup, with a pint of water, sugar, and the zest of a lemon. Arrange the chest- nuts in a roomy saute-pan, pour in just enough syrup to cover them, and simmer them very slowly for twenty minutes, being careful to keep them whole. Drain, and arrange the chestnuts in a glass dish. Strain the syrup into a clean pan, add a gill of Kirsch with the juice of half a lemon, and boil it down till it slightly coats the spoon. Cool, pour it over the chestnuts, and set the dish in a cold larder. Whipped cream may be laid over the chestnuts. \Wyvem.~] For the smaller English Chestnuts, rub them through a sieve, and arrange them round whipped cream which has been flavoured with vanilla and slightly sweetened.STEWED PEARS 463 Stewed Pears.—{Family Recipe.)—Choose six large Catillac Stewing Pears, cut them in halves. Make a syrup of six ounces of sugar to a pint and a half of water. Add the juice of a lemon, and if liked four cloves and a little cinnamon. Stew the Pears in the syrup till tender ; it will be about two hours. Take the Pears out, and reduce the syrup to about half a pint. Pour it over the Pears, and let them stand to get cold. Catillac Pears do not require any colouring. If other Pears are used colour with two or three drops of cochineal. The syrup must never be watery. Do not put cream with the Pears, but hand cream for those who like it. Favourite Apples.—{Family Recipe.) — Put very rosy- cheeked Apples in a pan with an ounce of sugar to each, and add just enough hot water to cover them. Cover the pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Then let the Apples just simmer till the skins crack open and the juice is pink. Baked Apples.—{Family Recipe.)—Only wipe the Apples, do not pare or core them. Use the fire-proof dish sold in sizes on purpose for baking Apples, and set them in a moderate oven. Try with a needle if they are done. Dust sugar over them, and serve in the same dish. Normandy Pippins.—Soak them for twelve hours in syrup, not water. Then stew them till tender in boiling syrup, allowing six ounces of sugar to a quart of water and a pound of Apples. Pour the syrup over and serve cold. Tapioca Custard (page 488) is excellent with Compotes. Rice is always suitable, and can be prepared the day before it is wanted, so as to be quite cold. For the rice: Blanch six ounces of Carolina rice in boiling water for five minutes, then drain and pour it at once into another stewpan containing a quart of boiling milk, four ounces of sifted sugar, an ounce of butter, and the “zest” of a lemon. Simmer it for an hour over a low fire. Take the rice off the fire, turn it into a china dish (in which it will be served), let it cool, and when quite cold turn it about with a plated fork (a spoon would make it sticky), and stir in by degrees a gill of cream. Flavour the rice as may be desired, but for most people it will be quite sweet enough.464 PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. I have already explained Frying in a separate chapter, but I must repeat that in Pancakes and Fritters the preparation of the batter (too often carelessly slurred over) is of great importance. The batter for Pancakes should be made two hours before they are wanted, and only enough for one should be used at a time; this quantity will be about half a teacupful. Do not wash the pan after making Pancakes, but wipe it like an omelette-pan. Batter for Pancakes.—Take half a pound of flour, four eggs, a pint of milk, and a pinch of salt. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, break the eggs one by one into a teacup, and drop each into the hole. Pour in a little milk, and stir the flour in gradually, adding milk by degrees, and rubbing away all lumps. When you have used half the milk beat the batter well with a wooden spoon till it is full of air bubbles, add the rest of the milk, and let the batter rest for two hours. Then butter a small frying-pan well, heat the pan till the butter smokes, but be careful that it does not burn, drop in just enough batter for one Pancake, let it spread itself over the pan, run a knife under it, and turn it over, roll the Pancake up, set it on a hot dish before the fire. Butter the pan again, and make another Pancake. When all are made, lay the Pancakes on a napkin, three in a row, and three across them, dust over with sugar, and hand quarters of lemon. Clarified suet burns less easily than butter ; if it is used melt a small piece in the pan before putting each Pancake. Ingleby Manor French Pancakes.—(.Family Recipe.)— Put in a basin four tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt, a table- spoonful of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and four eggs (keeping out two whites). Mix the whole in a pint of milk. Fry the Pan- cakes, lay them on the dish they will be served in, and spread a little apricot jam on each Pancake as you make it. Do not roll them up, but keep them flat. When you have a dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, adding a little sugar, put it on the top of the Pancakes, brown them in the oven, and serve quite hot. Chocolate Pancakes.—Two ounces of fine flour and two tablespoonfuls of milk, the whites of two eggs and the yolks of four, beaten separately. Add a tablespoonful of sugar, and a465 CHOCOLATE PANCAKES pinch of salt. Beat the batter well for half an hour, with two tablespoonfuls of cream. With the batter fry some very thin small pancakes, browning them only on one side. Lay them on a plate with the unfried side uppermost, grate over each a layer of chocolate thick enough to cover the surface entirely. Boll up the pancakes, dust them with sugar, and lay them on a buttered tin. Set the tin on a trivet, push it into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Fritters.—The best batter for Fritters of all kinds is Wyvem's; of course any flavouring can be added to it. The batter must be made two hours before it is wanted, and kept in the kitchen covered with a cloth, not in a cold larder. Put three ounces of fine flour into a basin, make a hole in the middle, and drop into it the yolks only of two eggs which have been previously broken into a teacup. Add two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix well together, and then stir in by degrees just enough lukewarm water to bring the batter to the consistency of thick cream, coating the spoon when lifted from it with a smooth film the eighth of an inch thick. When the batter is to be used stir into it the white of one of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Lemon Fritters.—When the batter is being made flavour it with the “ zest ” of a lemon. Put plenty of clarified suet into a saute-pan, so as to be at least an inch deep when melted. Heat the suet till a piece of bread put into it fizzes very freely, then drop the batter in, a dessertspoonful at a time. The fritters will swell out and crisp. Let them get a rich golden brown, drain them on a perforated slice, and dry them one by one on the wire drainer. When dry dish the fritters piled up on a hot napkin, sprinkle them with lemon-juice, and dust sugar over. Hand quarters of lemon and castor sugar. French Roll Fritters.—Rasp the outer film of crust from a French roll, and slice the roll into eight or ten rounds three- eighths of an inch thick. Lay these on a flat dish, and baste them with half a gill of slightly-sweetened cream, mixed with the yolks of two eggs. Let them rest in this ten minutes, basting them all the time, then lift them up one by one, let them drip for a minute, and afterwards roll them in finely-rasped ratafia powder, dry, and plunge them into boiling suet as usual. When H HPANCAKES AND FRITTERS 466 a golden colour, drain, dry, and serve dusted over with castor sugar. Apricot syrup sauce may be handed. Rice Fritter* may be made in the same way. Boil four ounces of rice properly, drain, empty it into a bowl, stir in two whole eggs, and two extra yolks that have been beaten up in a gill of warm milk. Set this in hot water over the fire till thickened, add two tablespoonfuLs of crushed ratafias, or powdered praline, and the “zest” of an orange, and sweeten with an ounce and a half of sugar. When thoroughly blended turn the mixture out on a slab, and with two wooden spoons pat it into a flat cake three-eighths of an inch thick, and leave it to get firm. Then cut it with a cutter, flour each fritter, egg, and roll in either finely-powdered ratafias or powdered praline (see page 488) and try. Fruit Fritters.—Fruit Fritters should always be marinaded in a tablespoonful of fruit juice, or a dessertspoonful of suitable spirit, for at least an hour before they are cooked. Mix the marinade with the batter, and wipe the pieces of fruit dry before you dip them into the batter. Preserved fruit in slices or halves answers perfectly for fritters. The slices of fruit must not be too thick; if unripe, or hard, parboil the fruit in thin syrup for a few minutes. Orange Fritters.—Peel two oranges, removing all the white part, and cut them into rounds across, five slices from each orange. Set them in a breakfast cup with either a tablespoonful of juice from another orange or a tablespoonful of brandy, and a little powdered sugar, and let them remain an hour. Then make a batter of a quarter of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of the liquid from the orange, add a teaspoonful of the orange rind very finely scraped, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and the white of one to a froth, beating the yolks and the white separately. Now put the yolks into the batter and beat it for a quarter of an hour. Add the white froth, and beat for another quarter of an hour. Coat the slices of orange with the batter, and fry in butter to a light brown. Sprinkle a little fine white sugar over them, and serve on a napkin. Apple Fritters.—Peel apples which are good baking apples, becoming soft and clear when made into tarts. Cut them into thickish slices, take out the pips, and let them soak for two hours467 APPLE FRITTERS in water with half a lemon squeezed into it. Put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, melt one ounce of butter in two tablespoonfuls of the water the apples were soaked in, but be careful not to make it hotter than is required just to melt the butter. Add either a dessertspoonful of brandy or the same of lemon-juice, working the flour to a paste, and adding the brandy, apple-water, and butter by degrees. Knead all well together. Beat up the white of an egg to a froth, and beat the batter all together. Dip the slices of apple in the batter, and fry them in butter. Cover them with powdered white sugar, and serve very hot. German Fritters.—Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and beat the whites separately to a stiff froth. Add an ounce and a half of white sugar, grate in a little lemon-peel, dust in a pinch of salt, and mix all with half a pint of milk. Butter a flat dish well, and bake the custard in it for half an hour. Leave it all night to get quite cold. Turn out the custard on a large flat dish ; it will be about an inch and a half thick. Cut it into rounds two inches aeross. Have the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a soup- plate, and plenty of well dried and sifted bread or sponge-cake crumbs in another plate. Lay each round of custard as you cut it on the egg, and spread the egg over the top and sides with a knife. Now lay the rounds one by one in the crumbs and cover them thickly. Fry in butter, which must be boiling when the fritters are put in. It requires great care to prevent breaking the fritters. Lay them on a paper before the fire to dry, and serve with a little powdered sugar sprinkled over them. The custard may be flavoured with kirsch, or vanilla. Or dried cherries may be sliced, or almonds pounded, and added to the custard before it is baked. Chocolate Fritters.—Scrape two ounces of unsweetened chocolate, and pound an ounce and a half of sugar. Boil them for a few minutes in half a pint of new milk. Set it to cool. Then mix a little of the milk with half an ounce of ground rice, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs. Let all just simmer. Then put it into a dish to get cold. Cut it out in rounds, egg and breadcrumb like the German fritters, and fry in butter. Plum Pudding1 Fritters.—Cut small oblongs half an inch thick of cold Plum Pudding, and marinade them with lemon-juice, a little sugar, and a few drops of brandy. Make the Fritter h h 2PANCAKES AND FRITTERS 468 batter, and flavour it with a dessertspoonful of brandy, and the squeeze of a lemon. Dip in the pieces of pudding, and fry them one by one. Serve Oronoco Sauce (page 485). JELLIES AND CREAMS. Good Jelly is not at all difficult to make, but success de- pends on careful attention to one or two points. The first of these is that the stewpan shall be absolutely clean. To ensure this take a squeezed lemon (the juice is pretty sure to be wanted in the Jelly), press it into some fine salt, and rub all the inside of the pan with it. Then rinse out the pan thoroughly twice, so that not a particle of grease can remain. In weighing the gelatine see that the scales are quite clean, and do not touch it with sticky fingers. The least atom of grease will make any Jelly cloudy. Jelly is cleared with the whites of eggs, and the egg-shells act as a filter when the Jelly is strained. In clearing Jelly the shells and whites of two eggs are generally sufficient for a quart of Jelly, but, if the eggs are small, a third white will be wanted, or the Jelly will not be clear. The jelly- bag must be scalded out before it is used. An openly-woven cloth does quite as well as a bag. A separate bag or cloth should be kept for Aspic Jelly, as the flavour can never be quite removed. On the whole, it is better to keep a cloth for Aspic Jelly, and a jelly-bag for sweetened Jelly. The bag must be warm when the Jelly is run through, and to ensure this many cooks put a bottle of boiling water, very securely corked, into the bag. Jelly cools rapidly whilst it is being strained, and thickens in consequence. Besides keeping the bag warm it is therefore necessary to strain the Jelly in a warm part of the kitchen, well away from any draught. As to sugar and gelatine, always use the best. Inferior gelatine is often much charged with water, and is therefore so much heavier than the best kinds that if the same quantity is used the Jelly will be like indiarubber in texture. Most of the best makers of gelatine now give the weight of their gelatine, so that the cook has not to reckon by the “ sheets ” of former days. In all cases a quarter of an ounce more gelatine is required in very hot weather, and a quarter of an ounce less in very cold weather.ORANGE JELLY 469 I will take Orange Jelly as an example. A quart of Jelly is enough for eight, or even ten persons. For this, allow a pint of juice, and a pint of water (that is, a quart of liquid in all); an ounce and a quarter of gelatine, and eight ounces of loaf sugar. The juice must be three-quarters of a pint of orange and a quarter of a pint of lemon, or, three parts orange to one part lemon. Oranges and lemons vary so much in juiciness that it is impossible to say how many will be wanted. Measure the quantity of juice you squeeze from them, and when you have got it right put all the liquid (juice and boiling water), the sugar and the gelatine, into the stewpan. The pan should be sufficiently large for the liquid to fill it only about one-third. Stir till the gelatine and sugar are dissolved, then, whilst the liquid is only warm, put in the whites and the crushed shells of two eggs. If the liquid boiled when the whites of egg were added they would poach and be of no use for clearing the Jelly. Whisk now over a brisk fire, stirring the contents of the pan well up from the bottom, and stop as soon as there is a thick head of froth or scum on the surface. Let the Jelly boil gently for five minutes. The heat hardens the egg, so that it rises in scum to the surface, bringing all impurities with it. If the whisking were continued till boiling the scum would not rise, but be distributed among the liquid, and the Jelly would necessarily be clouded. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let the Jelly rest for five minutes more, only just simmering. Whilst this is going on get the jelly- bag ready by pouring at least a quart of boiling water through it to warm it; it will of course have been previously scalded. Put a clean basin under the jelly-bag. Pour the whole contents of the pan into the jelly-bag, doing it gently. The first Jelly that runs through is sure to be cloudy, because the filter made by the egg-shells will not yet have settled in the bag. As soon as the Jelly begins to run slowly and clearly through the bag, change the basin below for another, and run the first of the Jelly through again, doing it as gently as possible, so as not to disturb the egg-filter. The mould must be ready for the Jelly—that is, the mould must be thoroughly clean, and have been kept soaking in cold water. Set the basin of Jelly in another basin full of cold water, so as to cool the Jelly before it is put into the mould. It must be perfectly liquid, or it would not pour, but it must hardlyJELLIES AND CREAMS 470 be lukewarm or there will be trouble in turning it out. In fact, if touched, the Jelly ought not to feel warm. Put the mould on a perfectly flat surface (or the Jelly will set crooked), and pour the Jelly into it. Put the mould in a cold place, if possible on ice, for at least two hours before it is wanted. To turn Jelly out of a mould, take a basin of hot water, put your elbow, not your hand, into it, and when you can just bear the heat dip the mould, if copper, into the water whilst you say “ knife.” If the mould is earthenware dip it in water whilst you count five. Wipe off all moisture with a cloth. To do this, turn the mould upside down on a folded cloth held in the hand, and then set it upon the dish it is to be served in. The cloth will absorb any moisture. Give the mould a little shake to disengage the Jelly from the sides, and draw it carefully off. If the Jelly sticks do not use a knife, but draw the mould again quickly through the hot water, letting the water cover it for just one second. Some cooks soak the gelatine in a little cold water to make it dissolve more easily, some add it just as the Jelly comes to the boil. Again, some whip the eggs to a stiff froth in a little water, and then pour some of the boiling Jelly upon them so as to add them when quite hot. Some cooks fix a small sieve or colander half way down the jelly-bag, so as to support the filtrating egg, and allow the Jelly to run through more easily. Every cook should try which method suits her best; the great point is to get the Jelly clear and firm without being tough. In decorating the mould put quarters of orange, freed from pips, into the knobs or compartments of what will be the top of the mould when the Jelly is turned out. Each knob should be previously moistened with a veiy little Jelly. Pour a little more, about half an inch deep, upon the pieces of orange, let this set, and when it is firm gently pour in the rest of the Orange Jelly gradmally. In making Jelly flavoured with wine or liqueur many cooks add the flavouring after the Jelly has been strained and cooled, so as to avoid any risk of cloudiness. Allow a quarter of a pint of flavouring. For Jelly with fresh fruit, lemon-juice is the best flavouring. Allow a quarter of a pint of it to three-quarters of a pint of fruit- juice, and a pint of water. Six to eight ounces of sugar will be47i ORANGE JELLY wanted according to the fruit used, and an ounce and a half of gelatine. Moisten the mould and pour a little jelly into it, cool enough just to pour. When the Jelly is firm arrange different kinds of fruit in it, and with a spoon pour a few drops of the Jelly on each. When the fruit is firm in the Jelly cover it with more Jelly, let it set, add another circle of fruit, and so on till the mould is full. Leave it for a couple of hours to get quite firm. Very good Jelly is made with fruit syrup. If this cannot be had use jam instead, reckoning half a pound of jam as equal to a gill and a half of syrup. Maraschino Jelly with Fruit.—Choose about three dozen ripe strawberries, wipe them carefully, spread them in a soup- plate, dust a fine shower of castor sugar over them, and sprinkle them with maraschino. Slice four peeled ripe bananas cross- wise, forming little discs about the size of a shilling, and an eighth of an inch thick. Prepare them like the strawberries. Choose a pint circular cylinder mould, and make the Jelly. First put tliree-quai’ters of an ounce of gelatine to soak. Beat the whites of two eggs, put them into a stewpan with a pint of water, the juice and peel of half a lemon, and an ounce and half of sugar. Set over the fire, stir the gelatine, using a whisk, and continue to move the liquid till it comes to the boil. Now draw it from the fire gently, let it rest ten minutes, and then pour it through a freshly-scalded flannel. Pour back, and strain again. When thoroughly cooled add a sherryglassful of maraschino. Do not use any colouring. Now set the mould upon a bed of crushed ice, and pour in the jelly liquid to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Let this set quite firmly, and then, having wiped the strawberries with a fine cloth, arrange them in a ring on the firm Jelly, pour in more Jelly, and set the ring of straw- berries. When this is firm set a ring of the banana discs overlap- ping each other, set this with Jelly, and then arrange a second layer of strawberries, completing the filling of the mould with the remainder of the Jelly. Cover the mould with the lid of a stewpan filled with broken ice, and let the Jelly set quite firmly. When turned out, fill the centre with whipped cream. [ Wyvern.'] Some of the best Jellies are made without being cleared. Thick Orang-e Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—Allow the same quantity of juice, gelatine, and sugar as for Clear Orange Jelly,472 JELLIES AND CREAMS but omit the water. Let it come gently to the boil. Then skim it, and pass it two or three times through the jelly-bag, before cooling it and pouring it into the mould. Lemon Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—Pare four lemons into three gills of spring water. Let it stand one hour, then add to it eight ounces of sugar, and the juice of the four lemons. Strain through a cloth, and put to it the whites of four eg?s well beaten and half an ounce of soaked gelatine. Set it over the fire, and let it boil. Skim it, and when pretty thick run it through a piece of muslin. Put the jelly into glasses, with a little froth of white of egg on each. Brooks’ Club Strawberry Jelly.—{Family Recipe.)— Rub the fruit through a sieve with a very little sugar. Add a very little gelatine and a little syrup. Pour it into a mould and put it on ice till set. Claret Jelly.—A bottle of light claret, a sherryglass of cherry brand}', four ounces of white sugar, the rind of one finely-peeled lemon and the juice of two, a gill and a half of raspberry syrup (or half a pound of raspberry jam). Boil all together, add an ounce of gelatine, and strain through muslin. Decorate a jelly-mould with crystallised raspberries, set it upon ice, pour some of the liquid jelly into the mould to set the fruit, and after that gradually fill the mould with the liquid. Let the jelly get quite firm. Hand a pint of iced cream, slightly sweetened. Or use a border-mould, and put whipped cream in the centre. [ Wyvern.) Prune Jelly.—Put into an enamelled saucepan a pound of prunes, two ounces of white sugar, the finely-peeled rind of a lemon, a piece of cinnamon, and enough claret and water, mixed half and half, to cover them. Stew gently till the prunes are quite tender. Take the pan off the fire, drain off the liquid, stone the prunes, and pass them through the sieve into a basin. Crack the stones, and add the kernels to the prune pulp. Steep an ounce of gelatine in the liquid strained off, put it on the fire, and when the gelatine is dissolved mix it with the prune pulp, adding a sherryglass of cherry brandy. Decorate a plain border-mould with blanched almonds, fill the mould with the prune liquid, and put it on ice to set. When turned out fill the centre with whipped cream.APPLE AND PINEAPPLE JELLY 473 Apple and Pineapple Jelly.—Boil two pounds of juicy apples and a pound of preserved or fresli pineapple till tender. Rub them through a sieve, add the syrup from the pineapple, or six ounces of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine, add it, and boil all together. Strain, take out the lemon-peel, and pour the jelly into a mould. A little more gelatine may he needed to stiffen the jelly, but as little as possible should be used. Creams.—Of late years Creams have been spoilt by the idle habit of adding gelatine to them in sufficient quantity to do away with the trouble of beating them. A very little gelatine is needed if Creams are to be served in moulds, but the velvety smooth texture of a properly-made Cream cannot exist unless the cream is beaten till it will stand up on the end of the whisk. If gelatine is added, put it in lukewarm at the last moment, stir it quickly and thoroughly into the Cream, and immediately pour the Cream into the mould, for it begins to set at once. Make Creams in a cold larder, set them on ice, and when wanted turn them out in the way directed for Jellies. Ambassador’s Cream.—(Family Recipe.)—Two table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, the same of raspberry jam, and two whites of eggs. To be beaten one hour with a wooden spoon. Use it the day it is made. Trinity College Burnt Cream.—(Family Recipe.)— Bring one pint of cream just to the boil, and no more. Pour it on the well-beaten yolks of four- eggs. Put it over a low fire, and stir until it becomes thick, but on no account let it boil. Strain the cream into the dish it is to be served in, and put it into a cool oven for ten minutes. Let it get cold, and then strew a thick layer of finely-powdered sugar over it. Brown it with a salamander, and serve cold. Coffee Cream.—Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of milk. Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth, add three ounces of castor sugar, and half a pint of strong coffee. Stir in the gelatine the last thing, and pour the cream into a mould which has been pi’eviously wetted. For Chocolate Cream use half a pint more milk, and dissolve four ounces of Chocolate in it.474 JELLIES AND CREAMS Orang-e Cream.—Peel the rind off a Seville orange, and boil it till quite tender. Beat it fine in a mortar. Add to it the juice of the orange, a dessertspoonful of brandy, the yolks of four eggs, and four ounces of loaf sugar. Beat all together for ten minutes. Then by degrees add a pint of boiling cream. Beat till it is quite cold, and put it into glasses. Set the glasses in a deep pan of boiling water, and leave them there till the water is cold. If this Cream is liked in a mould dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a very little water, and add it with the boiling cream. Strawberry Cream.—This answers equally well for cur- rants or raspberries. After removing the stalks weigh the ripe fruit carefully, so as to see that you have exactly a pound. Pass the fruit through a hair sieve into a bowl, and when through dust in five ounces of castor sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of milk, over a low fire. Whip the fruit, and pass into it as you do so a pint of separately-whipped cream. For Straw- berries add the juice of a lemon with the gelatine, and line the mould with lemon-jelly half an inch thick. To do this, make the mould as cold as possible on ice, and pour in the lining jelly as cold as you can get it to poui’. Turn the mould about, encouraging the jelly to flow evenly over the surface, and to set gradually on account of the coldness of the mould. When set pour in the Strawberry Cream, and leave the mould on ice. [Wyvern.~\ Currants would need a little more sugar, and claret would be more suitable than lemon flavouring for the lining jelly for both Raspberries and Currants. Strawberry or Raspberry Cream Made from Jam.— Rub six ounces of jam with a pint of cream through a hair sieve. Add the juice of a lemon and a little sugar. Whisk it fast at the edge of a dish, lay the froth on a sieve. Add a little more lemon-juice, and when no more froth will rise put the Cream into glasses or upon a dish. Drain the froth, and lay it on the Cream. Flavoured Creams.—Use fire-proof ramakin cases; the green fluted sort are the prettiest. Measure enough milk to fill six of these cases. Boil up the milk with a very little sugar, and take it off the fire. Beat up six yolks of eggs with a gill of cold milk. Pour this on the boiled milk, and fill the475 FLAVOURED CREAMS cases. Put the cases in the bain-marie, with boiling water three-parts of their height, keep them warm without boiling. Draw away the pan, and let the cases cool, covering the pan, till the Cream is set. Serve cold in the cases. The flavouring may be gi'ated stick vanilla (not the essence), or two spoonfuls of kirsch. Or grind some roasted coffee fine, boil it for ten minutes, and strain it through a flannel. Or melt enough chocolate in boiling milk for the cases, and strain it. Add the flavouring when the milk is boiling, and let it boil with it. Marton Hall Blanc Manger.—(Mrs. Heber’s Family Becipe, 1830.)—Boil a quart of cream with a little sugar, the peel of a lemon, and all kinds of spice, for twenty minutes. Have ready an ounce of soaked gelatine, add it to the cream, and give the cream two or three boils up. Strain through muslin into a china dish. When cold the Blanc Manger will be stiff, but not so stiff as to need biting. It should melt in the mouth. If spice is objected to flavour with a little wine or liqueur. Add this when the Blanc Manger has begun to cool. Blanc Manger is very good with compotes of fruit, arranged in the dish round the compote. Gooseberry Fool.-—Put a quart of topped and tailed green Gooseberries in the oven, to let them burst. Rub them through a sieve; when cold sweeten the Gooseberries a little, and beat in cream till the Fool is like thick cream. Brooks’ Club Strawberry Fool.—(Family Becipe.)—Rub a pound of Strawberries through a sieve, with sugar. Add three-quarters of a pint of cream, stir together, and beat until perfectly smooth. Serve in a glass dish, which has been set on ice. Orange Fool.—(Family Becipe.)—Take a pint of cream, and beat three eggs well. Squeeze into the cream the juice of six oranges, and the grated peel of one Seville orange. Add a little sugar. Stir all well over a low fire till it thickens, but on no account let it boil. Turn it into a glass dish, and let it get cold. Black Currant Fool is excellent made like Gooseberry Fool. Bhubarb Fool is improved by the addition of a little ground ginger as the Rhubarb is passed through the sieve.476 CHEESECAKES AND CUSTARDS. Maids of Honour.—(This is the original recipe for the Lemon Cheesecakes for which Richmond was famous more than a century ago) :— Rub the rind of two large lemons with sugar; scrape off the sugar into a basin as it becomes wet with the lemon essence. Add a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the juice of one lemon. Put all in a stewpan, beat it with a wooden spoon whilst on a moderate stove till it thickens, but on no account let it boil. Set it in a basin to get quite cold. Make puff paste rolled out a quarter of an inch thick, butter small patty-pans thickly, cut the paste the proper size with a cutter, and lay it in the pans, notching round the edges with a sharp knife. When the lemon is perfectly cold stir into it a tablespoonful of rich cream, and half fill each cheesecake. Bake them with great care in a moderate oven. Take them out of the tins immediately, and keep them warm in the screen on a cloth. The above quantities will make sixteen Cheesecakes, and the baking will take twenty minutes. Maids of Honour can be eaten cold. Orange Cheesecake.—Rub three ounces of loaf sugar on the rinds of two oranges and half a lemon. One orange ought to be a Seville one. Squeeze the juice of the oranges and half the lemon-juice, add a quarter of a pound of butter, put it in a stewpan, set it on a cool stove or low fire, and stir carefully till the butter is melted. Then beat three yolks of eggs, leaving out the whites, and mix them well in. Let it just simmer, but not boil, then put it by in a basin till wanted. Make a puff-paste not thinner than half an inch, line a flat fire-proof dish with it, pour in the orange cheesecake, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. Dust it over with a little sugar before serving. Scotch Cheesecakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Take five ounces of butter, five whole eggs not beaten up at all, and five ounces of lump sugar broken small. Put all into a saucepan and melt them perfectly and no more, turning them always one way. Line the patty-pans with light paste, lay a dessertspoonful of477 SCOTCH CHEESECAKES marmalade at the bottom of each, fill with the cheesecake, and hake a nice brown. They should be of a greenish colour when cut. Three ounces of butter, three eggs, and three ounces of sugar make seven cheesecakes. The same materials make a good pudding with marmalade laid on paste in the dish. Boiled Custard.—(Family Recipe.)—Take three teacupfuls of cream and three of new milk, boil it with the peel of half a lemon, and set it aside to get cold. Break up the yolks of four eggs and put them into the cream with a little sugar. Place it on a low fire and keep stirring till it thickens. It must on no account boil, or it will curdle. Pour it into glasses, and when cold it will be solid and smooth. These Custards will keep several days, and should always be made overnight. Boiling the cream just makes the Custard more solid and secures its keeping. Custard to hand with Apple Tart.—Half a pint of new milk boiled with the rind of one lemon cut as thin as possible. Boil for ten minutes, add half a pint of cream and boil for ten minutes more. Strain into a basin, add a little sugar, and set to get cold. Beat the yolks of six eggs for a quarter of an hour, strain them, and mix them with the cream. Set it in a stewpan on the stove, and stir with a silver spoon till it thickens. Do not let it boil, and do not leave off stirring for a single instant. Serve in a china or glass dish. A spoonful of pale brandy may be added if liked, whilst stirring. PUDDINGS. There are a few general rules respecting Puddings which must be strictly observed. Everything used must be good and fresh. Flour must be fresh and perfectly dry. If rice, or sago, or tapioca are used they must be well washed, and soaked till tender. The best way of doing this is to put the rice, say two ounces, into a jar with a pint of milk, and to set the jar, closely covered, in a saucepan of boiling water for about an hour and a half, stirring the rice occasionally. Many cooks merely put the rice and milk into a basin, and the basin in the oven, in which case the rice is likely to stick to the basin and the milk to boil473 PUDDINGS over. Eggs must be broken separately into a cup, so as to see tbat eacb is good. A doubtful egg will ruin any Pudding. When eggs are scarce choose one of the numerous Puddings which can be made without them. The Butter must be of the best. Good salt Butter can be used for very common Puddings, but it requires soaking under a tap and then well working and press- ing in a clean cloth to remove the salt. Milk must either be fresb or skimmed. At the end of twelve hours new milk throws up a surface of cream, and the two can never be mixed together again. If skimmed milk is used the addition of a teaspoonful of minced suet will replace the loss of the cream. But cream and skimmed milk must be dealt with separately. Sugar.—Be most careful not to put in too much. Puddings are generally too sweet, and sugar can easily be added when the Pudding is being eaten if more is liked. Moist sugar can be used for many Puddings, but castor sugar is required for all which are to be light. Raisins- must be freed from stalks, stoned, and slit in half. Every kitchen should have one of the new Raisin- stoners, for Raisins should be bought whole, as they do not keep when stoned. Sultanas are free from stones, but they have not the flavour and richness of Raisins. Currants are avoided by many people as they are absolutely indigestible, owing to the thickness and toughness of their skins. If used, Currants should be “ plumped ” by pouring boiling water upon them; they must then be washed in lukewarm water, dried in a cloth, and well rubbed to get rid of the stalks. After this, drop the Currants, a few at a time, on a baking-tin, so that a rattle will show if there are any stones among the fruit. Many a child has' broken a tooth by biting a stone carelessly left among Currants. If Currants are dried before the fire they will become hard. Candied Peel should be cut in thin strips, not minced. Baked Pudding’S.—Milk Puddings require only a moderate oven. If the rice, tapioca, or sago has been soaked as just described, all that is needed is to pour the mixture into the pudding-dish, taking care not to spill any of it on the edges of the dish, and to push it into the oven till the surface is nicelj browned. If there are eggs and milk in the Pudding too hot an oven would make them curdle. Baked Puddings of allBAKED PUDDINGS 479 kinds are much better not turned out, and now that fire-proof china dishes can be got of all shapes and sizes, and quite pretty enough to appear on the dinner-table, this is easily managed. Boiled Pudding’s.—For success in these, two rules are essential. (1.) The water must be boiling when the Pudding is put in, and it must be kept boiling all the time the Pudding is cooking. (2.) The Pudding must be under water the whole time. If these two rules are not attended to the water will soak into the Pudding and ruin it. Always, therefore, keep a kettle of boiling water ready, and fill up the saucepan in which the Pudding is cooking as may be required. Puddings are boiled either in a basin or in a cloth. If a basin is used, see that it is well buttered, and that the Pudding quite fills it. Scald out a pudding-cloth, put it over the basin, and tie it firmly with strong twine tightly under the rim. If the cloth is not firmly secured the Pudding, as it rises in cooking, may burst out of the basin. If the basin has no rim tie the string* tightly round it about half-way up, and woi’k it up as far as it will go, pulling down the cloth all round under the string as you do so. Many people consider that a Pudding boiled in a cloth is lighter than one boiled in a basin. Scald out the cloth, flour it lightly so as to prevent the Pudding from sticking to it, but do not use too much flour or it will give a flavour of paste. Form the Pudding into a ball, put it into the centre of the cloth, and tie it up veiy securely. A Plum Pudding, or any pudding with suet and fruit, requires more room to swell in the cloth than other Puddings. It is a good plan to put the Pudding on a plate as it boils, to prevent it fx*om sticking to the pan and burning. When a Pudding is turned out, whether from a basin or a cloth, it must be done slowly and gently. Take a strong fork and lift the Pudding out of the saucepan with it. Reverse the lid of the pan, and hold the Pudding on it, slanting, so that it may drain. Then, still using the fork, lift the Pudding on to a hot dish, untie the cloth, cut the string, and take the cloth gently off the Pudding. Hold the hot basin in a cloth, shake it gently to ascertain if the Pudding is free from it, reverse the basin upon the dish the Pudding is to be served in, and gently draAv away the basin. If all this is not carefully done thePUDDINGS 4S0 Pudding will he likely to break. If the Pudding has been boiled in a cloth cut the string, and draw the cloth slightly away from the sides of the Pudding, reverse it on the hot dish it is to be served on, and gently remove the cloth. Steamed Puddings.—Steaming is the best way of cooking most Puddings. Butter the mould thoroughly, fill it only two- thirds full with the Pudding mixture, and put a buttered paper over the top. Put the mould into a pan with boiling water reaching half-way up the sides of the mould, keep the lid of the pan on, and as the water evaporates replenish it from a boiling kettle. For Custard Puddings the mould should be set in the bain-marie, and the water kept to simmering point only. If the water is allowed to boil the Pudding will be tough, and very slow simmering is essential to the success of all Custard Puddings. Boiled Fruit Puddings.—These old-fashioned Puddings are excellent made with green apricots, green gooseberries, red or black currants, stoned morella cherries, stoned damsons, or apples, and the batter is much better than the suet paste often used. The time of boiling depends on the ripeness and texture of the fruit; good cooking apples require an hour and a quarter. Stone fruit should have the stones removed, cracked, and the kernels added to the Pudding. Butter a pint and a half basin thickly, and fill it nearly to the top with fruit; if apples are used pare, core, and quarter them. Pour over the top a batter made with four tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs (if small, if large two will do), and half a pint of milk. The basin ought now to be quite full. Tie a buttered and floured cloth over it, and set it to boil. When done, turn the Pudding out on a hot dish, and sprinkle plenty of sugar over it, nsing either moist or castor sugar according to the kind of fruit. Never put in any sugar till the Pudding is quite done, or it will make the batter heavy. Ground Rice Pudding.—(Family Recipe, 1848.)—Boil three tablespoonfuls of ground rice in one pint of milk. Then whilst still warm mix into it off the fire the yolks of three eggs, a very little sugar, and some grated lemon-peel. Beat the white of the eggs to a froth and stir this in just before the pudding is put in the oven. Bake about twenty minutes.481 SUET PUDDING WITHOUT SUET Suet Pudding- without Suet.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a teacupfal of cream, the same of oiled butter, the same of skim milk, one egg well beaten, and a little salt. Mix with flour the thickness of a good batter pudding. To be boiled one hour and a half and served up with sweetmeat. (Oiled butter is butter just melted, not melted butter.) The same Pudding- without Butter.—Take a teacupful of good sweet dripping oiled, one egg well beaten and then mixed with new milk, and four tablespoonfuls of flour. Boil it in a basin or mould for one hour and a half. Biscuit Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.)—Take four ounces of oiled butter, of sugar, and of flour, and two eggs. Beat all well together, and bake for twenty minutes. Lemon Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Pare two lemons thickly, and boil the peels pretty soft, changing the water two or three times in the boiling. When the peels are boiled beat them very fine with a little loaf sugar. Then take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and beat the eggs and sugar together for half an hour. Take five ounces of quite fresh butter, melt it without water and clear it from the buttermilk, mix all well together, and bake the pudding in a puff paste in a slow oven. Before you put it into the tin it is baked in add the juice of half a lemon, and before you put it into the oven grate sugar over it. Plain Lemon Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—For a pint and a half dish take five eggs, and beat the yolk and white separately. Then take a teacupful of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of butter well beaten to a froth, the juice of a lemon, and its peel grated, and a little sugar. Mix all well together, and bake with a paste round the dish. L’Ami des Enfants.—(Family Recipe.)—Split twelve sponge cakes, butter a mould or dish, and line it with the under part of the cakes. Fill up with layers of fresh fruit with brown sugar between each layer, and add a breakfast- cupful of milk. Dip the top parts of the sponge cakes for just an instant in water, and cover the tart with them. Bake half an hour. Bakewell Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Make a paste for the bottom of the dish, and spread it with candied preserve.482 PUDDINGS Mix together the juice and rind of one lemon, three ounces of melted butter, of loaf sugar, of breadcrumbs, and three yolks of eggs. Pour it in, and bake. Swiss Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.)—Take the crumbs of a two-pound loaf, three large apples chopped fine, and a quarter of a pound of butter flavoured with lemon-peel, sugar, and nutmeg. Put in a mould a layer of bread, apple, and butter alternately, and bake one hour and a half. Cabinet Pudding-.—(jFamily Recipe.)—Take a tin mould five inches deep, and wider at the top than at the,bottom. Let the inside be covered with butter, and then arrange dried cherries (or picked raisins) on it. Pill the mould three parts full with sponge cakes cut in pieces and ratafia cakes inter- mixed. Moisten them with a gill of brandy and the same of sherry. (Curacoa is better than brandy, and Madeira is better than sherry for this.) Just before the mould is ready for the stewpan pour in a sufficient quantity of cold custard to fill up all the spaces between the cakes. Cover the mould with a buttered white paper, put it in a stewpan of boiling water, and let it simmer for one hour. You will want five sponge cakes, a quarter of a pound of ratafia cakes, three-quarters of a pound of dried cherries, and one pint of custard. Bread Pudding".—(Family Recipe.)—Eight ounces of breadcrumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, four ounces of beef suet minced to a powder, two eggs, two ounces of currants, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a little chopped lemon-peel, and a very little nutmeg. Mix all with a little milk, and steam the pudding in a buttered mould for two hours. Or bake the mixture in little cups, adding a little cream and another egg. Peasant’s Pudding".—(Family Recipe.)—Fill a deep tart- dish with alternate layers of well-sugared fresh fruit, and thin slices of the crumb of a light stale loaf. Let the top layer be of fruit, and sprinkle on that a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice. Bake for half an hour'. Custard Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Take one whole egg and the yolks only of two more, add them, off the fire, to a gill of new milk which has been previously boiled with a little lemon-peel grated into it. Steam the whole together about twenty minutes.483 PLAIN PUDDING Plain Pudding1.—(Family Recipe.)—Three spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and a pint of cream. Simmer for one hour and ten minutes. Brown Bread Pudding*.—Half a pound of brown bread crumbs, of currants, and of sugar, six ounces of powdered suet, five eggs, and a gill of brandy. Steam for two hours. Muffin Pudding’.-—Take the outsides off three muffins, tear the insides into thin slices, and put them in a pint basin. Beat four eggs well, and take as much milk as the muffins will absorb. Let it stand a while, and do not stir it. Add a little sugar and dried cherries between every alternate layer of muffin. Bake one hour. Prussian Pudding’S.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pint of thick cream, a teacupful of melted butter, three spoonfuls of flour, and a little nutmeg. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two very smoothly with a little sugar. Add the other things to the eggs. Bake half an hour in buttered cups. This will make five small puddings. Wentworth House Batter Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.) —Take one pint of milk, three eggs, six spoonfuls of flour, beat them well together for a long time till it is quite hard. Put it into a basin, tie a cloth over it, and let it boil three hours. Take it out of the pot, and let it stand half an hour by the fireside before serving. Batter Pudding- for One Person.—{Family Recipe.)—A gill of milk boiled, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of flour. Beat it all up together, and boil it for half an hour in a cloth, and not in a basin. This make* the pudding lighter, but the appear- ance is not so neat. In all Batter Puddings add the milk very gradually, and beat the mixture thoroughly, or the batter will never be smooth. It is an excellent plan to keep back the whites of the eg; s, then whisk them to a froth, and stir it into the pudding just before it is put into the cloth. The pudding must have room to swell, and the water must be boiling fast when it is put in. Batter Puddings must be served at once, or they will be heavy. If fruit is liked the pudding must be boiled in a mould, and an ounce or more of well-washed and plumped currants dropped in at the last moment. Or dried cherries can be used. 1 1 2PUDDINGS 484 Baked Batter Pudding1.—Beat separately the yolks and whites of three eggs, then mix three tablespoonfuls of flour with half a pint of milk, a morsel of butter, and a pinch of salt. Stir in the eggs and bake in a quick oven. Tapioca Pudding.—(Family Recipe.)—Put two table- spoonfuls of tapioca into half a pint of cold milk and steep it from four to six hours. Then melt half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add the tapioca and milk, and stir till it boils. Then put it to simmer very gently for half an horn*. Pour it into a pudding-dish and bake it for a few minutes. Serve it with a little strawberry jam sent up in a glass or china saucer. Milky Rice Pudding.—Take two ounces of rice, and a pint of cold milk. Put them into a jar which has a cover, set it in a pan of boiling water, and let it simmer till the rice is thick and soft. Keep the cover on the jar, but stir the rice now and then. Allow an hour and a half, then pour the rice into a pudding-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for a few minutes just to brown the surface. Flavour with lemon peel. If the pudding is liked very milky add a little more milk. Both this pudding and the tapioca pudding are infinitely better than the usual plainly-baked puddings, as the rice and tapioca are thoroughly cooked, and thoroughly saturated with the milk. Steamed Rice Pudding.—(Family Recipe.)—Boil five ounces of washed rice for ten minutes. Strain and simmer it for an hour and a half in a pint of milk till it is quite soft and thick like melted butter. Put it into a basin and add a little bi’own sugar. Break four yolks of eggs into it, and add two dessertspoonfuls of jam made of one quarter apricot and three quarters apple. Work all well together with a spoon. Whip the whites of the four eggs and stir them in. Butter a round mould five and a half inches deep, and steam the pudding for one hour and twenty minutes. The colour should be slightly brown, from the brown sugar and the jam. Serve with jam sauce made the reverse way—that is, three quarters apricot and one quarter apple. You will want at least four tablespoonfuls of jam dissolved in a syrup made of a pint of water and two ounces of lump sugar. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish, and well wash an ounce of currants and an ounce of sultanas. CutBREAD AND BUTTER BUDDING 485 thin slices of bread, and butter them. Arrange alternate layers of bread and butter and fruit sprinkled with a little brown sugar till the dish is neai'ly full. Let the top layer be of bread and butter, as currants are apt to burn. Beat one egg to a strong froth, add to it gradually half a pint of milk heated nearly to boiling, and pour the egg and milk gently over the pudding. Let it soak into the bread and butter for half an hour with a saucer on the top of the slices to keep them down. Put a few little bits of butter on the top of the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven till it is set, perhaps half an hour. French roll is better for this pudding than household bread, and a slice or two of sponge cake, not buttered, improves it. Plum Pudding1.—(Family Recipes.)—(1.) Beat two eggs and a little salt well together, then put to them three-quarters of a pound of stoned rasins (or currants), the same quantity of minced suet, and of flour. Add as much skim milk as will make it very stiff. Boil the pudding full five hours, for on this depends its being so good. No wine, brandy, or sugar the least necessary. (2.) Small Plum Pudding.—One pound of minced suet, one pound of stoned raisins, six ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, five whole eggs well beaten. A little cinnamon if liked. Boil full five hours. Plum Pudding.—Mince finely one pound of fresh suet, picked from every scrap of skin, half a pound of stoned raisins, five ounces of flour and the same of breadcrumbs, five ounces of brown sugar, the peel of two Seville Oranges (lemons if you cannot possibly get Seville Oranges), and four eggs, leaving out two of the whites. Mix together with as much milk as will just make it too thick to pour, but not as stiff as a paste. Do not beat or knead the pudding, but mix it all thoroughly together. Tie it tight in a cloth, as tight as possible, and boil it for six hours precisely. Some people boil Plum Pudding in a mould. If so, let the pudding made as above rest for six hours before it is put in. Line the mould with buttered paper, press the pudding in, put a buttered paper on the top, tie a thick pudding-cloth closely over it, and boil as above for exactly six hours. Oronoeo Sauce for Plum Pudding.—(Family Recipe.)— A quarter of a pound of butter, and rather more of finelyPUDDINGS 486 powdered sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon till quite light and white, then add, drop by drop, a tablespoonful of brandy, and work it again till thoroughly mixed—which is troublesome to do. Put it in a sauce-boat, and set on ice till wanted. (This sauce is now called Brandy Butter.) Imperial Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.)— Break up slices of cold Plum Pudding and four sponge cakes. Arrange them in layers in a mould, make a custard of three or four yolks of eggs, flavour with a tablespoonful of rum, fill up the mould, and steam gently one hour. Poet Rog-ers’ Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Pour half a teacupful of boiled cream over three sponge Savoy biscuits. Add a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar dissolved in water, the yolks of four and the well-beaten whites of two eggs. Also the grated rind of two small lemons, and all the juice of one lemon. Put the Pudding into a puff paste and bake in a pie-dish like a large cheesecake. To be eaten cold. Royal Blue Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Two whole eggs, two ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, and a dust of nutmeg, all mixed together till very smooth, then add by degrees a pint of new milk, mixing till it is all of one substance. Rub off the rind of a lemon on a piece of sugar weighing four ounces, put this with the rest into a stewpan on the fire, stir in about two ounces of butter, and be sure to keep stirring till all becomes in a body, and quite smooth. Well whip the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Mix all well together very gently, put the mixture into a buttered mould, and simmer in the bain- marie for an hour and a half. For the sauce : Have ready in a small stewpan four yolks of eggs, two gills of sherry, and two ounces of loaf sugar. When the Pudding is wanted put this on the fire, and keep stirring it with a whisk till it is quite thick, but on no account let it boil. Pour it over the pudding and serve directly. Primrose Pudding-S.—(Family Recipe.)—The weight of two eggs in flour, in sugar, and in butter, the rind of one lemon and the juice of half of it. Work the lemon and butter well together, then put in the sugar and flour, break in one egg at a time, and mix all well together. Bake in buttered tins. F orPRIMROSE PUDDINGS 487 the sauce: Make some thin melted butter, sweeten it slightly, add a little grated lemon-peel, and two gills of marsala. Make it quite hot, but do not let it boil. Serve in a hot sauce-boat. Or put three tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a pint of water, and the very finely-peeled rind of a lemon into a saucepan. Simmer for twenty minutes, then add the juice of two lemons, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Strain and serve in a hot boat. Sir Watkin Wynn’s Pudding-.—(Old Recipe.)—(1.) Ten ounces of breadcrumbs, eight of chopped suet, three of pounded sugar, the grated peel and juice of two large lemons, three eggs and a little salt. Mix all well together, put it into a mould that will just hold it, and boil for three hours. Serve with a clear wine sauce. For this put two gills of sherry and the juice of half a lemon into half a pint of water. Reduce to half the quantity, and dust in a little sugar. Wyvern’s Recipe.—(2.) Mix together in a bowl two ounces of chopped candied peel, two and a half of minced suet, and four of white crumbs. Add one tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of apricot jam, a liqueur-glass of rum or brandy, one dessei’tspoonful of lemon-juice, and two whole fresh eggs. When thoroughly mixed put all into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. For the sauce: Put two table- spoonfuls of apricot jam into a saucepan with a teacupful of water and a glass of the rum or brandy used in the Pudding. Boil all together, stirring well, then strain, and serve. Lady Raglan’s Pudding.—Line a buttered mould with dried figs cut in half, putting the skins inside. Make a custard with three well-beaten eggs, and a half a pint of new milk. Add the “ zest ” and juice of one lemon, and a tablespoonful of marsala. Steam the Pudding till it feels quite firm and elastic to the touch. Let it get cold. Serve with wine sauce. Victoria Pudding.—Put a quarter of a pound of bread or cake crumbs or crumbled biscuit, two ounces of sugar, four ounces of suet minced to a powder, and eight ounces of stoned and stewed prunes, into a bowl. Stir into them, one by one, four well-beaten eggs, and a tablespoonful of brandy or rum. Add the “zest” and juice of one lemon, put the mixture into a buttered basin, tie a pudding-cloth over, and boil for three hours. For the sauce: Crack the prune-stones, put them intoPUDDINGS 488 two gills of weak sugar and water syrup, boil up, and simmer, adding a dessertspoonful of the spirit used for the Pudding. In half an hour strain off the syrup, add another dessert- spoonful of sjiirit, and pour it over the Pudding as you serve it. Caramel Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Melt at the bottom of a pint mould enough loaf sugar, about six lumps, to make six teaspoonfuls of Caramel. Boil, strain, and cool nearly a pint of milk, and make a good custard with three eggs. Add a very little sugar. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. There will be a little sauce from the caramel and custard, just enough to surround the Pudding. Serve quite cold. In this, as in all Custard Puddings, success entirely depends on the slow steam- ing. Wyvem gives several recipes for Custard Puddings, and lays particular stress on this slow process, fully explaining it in the first. (1.) Tapioca Custard.—(These three recipes are intended for quite a small party, say of four persons. Of course, it is easy to increase the quantities, great attention being paid to the proportion of each ingredient.) Take two tablespoonfuls of the best tapioca ; if there are large lumps pound the tapioca in a mortar and make it all alike, the size of a small pea. Soak it in water for half an hour, strain, and put it into a stewpan with a pint of cold milk. Set the pan over a low fire, warm up gradually, and simmer very gently, stirring occasionally to keep the tapioca smooth. Sweeten with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and when the tapioca is soft draw the pan from the fire and cool it. Whilst it is cooking beat up four fresh eggs, and stir them by degrees and off the fire into the cooled tapioca and milk. Set the pan over another containing boiling water, and steam till the mixture turns to a custard. Flavour with almond or ratafia, and empty it into a basin to cool. When cold, stir the custard well, blend with it a gill of separately whipped cream (which to whip well must be ice-cold), empty all into a glass dish, and strew over it crushed ratafias or powdered praline. Or lay the whipped cream lightly over the top of the custard. To make the praline: Melt three ounces of powdered sugar over a low fire in a small saucepan, let it turn a nice brown colour, then add two ounces of blanched and489 TAPIOCA CUSTARD chopped almonds, and stir well for a minute or two. Stop before the sugar turns too dark, and at once pour the whole upon a cold marble slab. It will harden immediately. When cold, pound the praline to powder in a mortar. A compote of fruit nmy be handed with this dish, but it is quite good enough without. (2.) Coffee Custard Pudding1 a la Turque,—For a pint roast four ounces of coffee berries in the Demon Roaster (see page 339), moistening them with half an ounce of butter. Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk, take it off the fire, empty .the coffee berries into it, and let them soak, covered up, in a warm place for an hour. Strain, and turn, the milk to a custard with four eggs, sweetening with an ounce of sugar. Strain this when made. Choose a pint border mould, butter it well, line it with crushed ratafias, pour in the custard and steam gently (as in last recipe) till firm. Let it get cold in the mould, and turn it out. If liked, choose a mould with a hollow rim, glaze the custard with diluted apricot jam, fill the hollow rim with preserved cherries, and hand this sauce : Put three tablespoonfuls of apricot jam in a gill of water, with a table- spoonful of rum. Boil, pass through a strainer, and serve cold. The coffee flavour is much better when Mocha berries are used in this way ; liquid coffee does not answer nearly so well. (3.) Apple Custard Pudding1.—Choose a pint and a half plain charlotte mould, butter it well with a brush, using melted butter slightly cooled. Decorate the top and walls of the mould with ratafias—slices of stale Madeira cake Avould do— fixing them neatly. Cut six large apples in quarters, peel, and core them. Blanch them for a minute in boiling water, drain, lay them on a buttered saute-pan, moisten them with a gill of plain syrup, and squeeze a lemon over them. Cover the pan, and cook the apples very gently, keeping the quarters firm. Make the syrup of a pint of water, ten ounces of sugar, and the “ zest ” of the lemon. When the quarters of apple are cooked, but still firm, spread them on a large flat dish, and marinade them for four hours in the syrup, adding a tablespoonful of Icirsch. Make the custard with half a pint of milk, boiled and cooled, using four whole eggs, two ounces of sugar, and flavour with ratafia. Strain and cool the custard. Whilst it is cooling490 PUDDINGS pack tlie inside of tlie mould, already lined as described, with the quarters of apple, arranging them cross-wise, and careful] v leaving little spaces through which the custard may presently find its way. When the custard is cool pour it into the mould by degrees, letting it settle well, and leaving half an inch at the end of the mould unfilled. Put a two-gallon stewpan on the fire, having covered the bottom of it inside with a sheet of folded paper, and having then poured in water one inch deep. Bring the water to the boil, then put in the mould, covered with a sheet of buttered paper, and at once cover the pan, and let the Pudding simmer for one hour. A tablespoonful of cream improves the custard. Serve hot or cold, with this sauce: Stir into a gill of plain sugar and water syrup one tablespoonful of apricot jam, the juice of half a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of kirsch. MoUSSeline Pudding*.—Grate the rind of two lemons and squeeze their juice into a stewpan, add two ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and the yolks of four eggs. Stir all well together, and gradually heat the mix- ture nearly, but not quite, to boiling point. Set it to cool in a basin. When quite cold stir in the yolk of one more egg. Whip four of the whites to a firm froth, and mix them in care- fully, so that the whole is perfectly smooth. Pill a buttered mould with the mixture, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Mousseline Sauce (page 139) or the sauce given in last recipe. Favourite Pudding*.—Line a buttered mould with raisins which have been stoned and slit nearly, but not quite, in half. Fill three parts of the mould with small pieces of stale bread, crust, or sponge cake. Make a custard with one egg well beaten and half a pint of warm (not boiling) milk, flavoured with a gill of marsala. Pour the custard slowly into the mould, let it stand a short time to soak, and then steam the pudding for half an hour. Hasty Pudding*.—Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt. Whilst boiling stir into it by degrees as much flour as will thicken it. Pour it out, and eat it with cold butter and brown sugar. Marmalade Pudding*.—A teacupful of milk, a tablespoon- ful of flour, and an ounce and a half of sugar, all stirred over491 MARMALADE PUDDING the fire till boiling. Then add, off the fire, the yolks of four eggs. Strain a small pot of marmalade so as to reserve the chips. Add the rest of the marmalade to the eggs, beat up the whites, and stir them lightly in. Butter a mould, and line it entirely with the orange chips, put in the pudding protected by a buttered paper, and steam it for half an hour. N.B.—The best way of buttering a mould is to melt the butter in a soup-plate over hot water, and to put it on with a brush. Ginger Pudding.—For a pint and a half mould take two and a half gills of milk, three whole eggs and two yolks, two tablespoonfuls of ginger syrup made by simmering preserved ginger in a little water, and the “zest” of a lemon. Boil the milk, and as it cools beat the syrup and eggs together in a bowl, then add the milk and “zest” and turn the mixture to a custard over another pan filled with boiling water. Butter a plain charlotte mould, line it with buttered paper, ornament the top with pieces of preserved ginger, and make a fine mince of all the trimmings of the ginger, and as much more as will be required to yield four tablespoonfuls. Stir this into the custard. Fill the mould, and steam it gently till firm; probably for fifty minutes. Turn it out, and serve with a syrup, either hot or cold, flavoured with ginger and lemon-juice. \_Wyvern.] To paper a mould, crease the paper to fit the bottom, and nick it in several places from the top to the bottom, so as to fit it into the mould quite evenly. Cut away any parts of the paper that are double. The mould must have been previously well- buttered, and it is often advisable to let the paper be an inch above the top of the mould. Souffles.—Souffles ai-e the lightest of all possible varieties of Puddings, and happy is the cook who can turn them out well. Success depends, of course, chiefly on practice and experience, but with the best cooks and the utmost care a Souffle may fail at the last moment. The great Leander, in Lord Beaconsfield’s Tancred, said of one of his subordinate cooks, “He is too young. He lost his head. I entrusted the “ Souffles to him, and but for the most desperate personal “ exertions all would have been lost. It was an affair of the “ bridge of Areola* ” “ Ah ! mon Dieu! ” replied Leander’s old * A battle in which Bonaparte narrowly escaped capture.492 PUDDINGS master, “ Those are moments!” In Souffles to fall short of per- fection means failure, but perfection can be (and not unfrequently is) attained. As Souffles cannot, unluckily, be eaten in the kitchen, it should be a rule that the guests must wait for the Souffle, for it cannot wait for them, and also that the Souffle is handed round the moment it comes upstairs, without any delay between the oven and the dinner table. If flour is used in Souffles at all, it should be potato flour, which, being really potato starch, is extremely light. Souffle cases are double, and should be rather deep in proportion to their width. The Souffle is put into the inner case, which is dropped into the outer one as soon as the Souffle comes out of the oven. The Souffle, if propei'ly made, rises very much indeed, and the tin must have a band of tliickisli paper pasted round it, extending quite two inches above the upper rim, so as to prevent the Souffle from brimming over. Souffles can be made of fish, or chicken. Or they can be sweet. Or they can be of cheese. But the treatment is in all cases the same. For a fish Souffle, say of whiting, allow four ounces of fish, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. The quantity of chicken, also pounded, would be the same. Allow four eggs for this quantity, and a pint of white sauce made with fish stock for the fish Souffle and with chicken or veal stock for the chicken Souffle. In all other respects carry out the following recipe, of course omitting the sugar and vanilla. Vanilla Souffle.—Put into a casserole or enamelled pan four ounces of potato flour, two ounces of sugar, and a little essence of vanilla to flavour the sugar. Mix this well with a pint of cold milk, then put the pan on the fire till boiling, stirring well with a wooden spoon till it is smooth. Take the pan off the fire. Break four eggs into a bowl, separating the yolks from the whites. Set the whites aside. Mix the yolks one by one into the Souffle batter. Whip the whites very firmly, and pass the froth flake by flake into the batter. Pour the whole into a well- buttered Souffle tin which has been lined with paper at the top rising at least two inches above the rim. Bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven, or till the Souffle lias risen. Slip the tin into the outer case, and serve forthwith. [ Wyvem!\ Orange-Flower Omelette Soufflee.—(Family Recipe.)— Weigh four eggs in their shells and take their weight in sugar.ORANGE-FLOWER OMELETTE SOUFFLEE 493 Break the yolks into a clean basin. Put the whites by them- selves into a second basin and whisk them to a stiff froth. Stir the yolks with a wooden spoon for fully twenty minutes, adding powdered sugar gradually, and adding also a dessertspoonful and half of orange-flower water. Then add the whites very carefully, little by little. Do not use a souffle dish, as that is too deep, but use a fire-proof dish, butter it well, and put a tall paper l’im round the edge. The paper must be three inches above the edge of the dish. The mixture should fill only three- quarters of the dish when put in. Sprinkle pounded ratafias over the top. In a moderate oven this Omelette Soufflee will rise to the top of the paper rim when it is baked. It should quite set at the top outside, but when it is helped with a table- spoon it should inside be more like thick custard. Serve straight from the oven. Omelette Soufflee au Fromag’e.—Put into a saucepan three ounces of butter half melted, and four yolks of egg, season with black pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg (if liked). Turn the whole to a custard over a low fire, carefully avoiding boiling. When it is quite smooth take it off the fire, mixing into it three and a half ounces of grated Parmesan. It should now be worked smoothly, and the whipped whites of two of the eggs having been added as a last touch the mixture should be poured into a tin, set in the oven on a wire drainer, and baked for eighteen or twenty minutes. \_Wyvern.~\ USEFUL SWEET DISHES. Mincemeat for Mince Pies.—(Family Betipe.)—One pound of well-washed and picked currants, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of finely-minced suet, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six ounces of candied peel, the juice and the grated rind of two lemons, and three-quarters of a pint of brandy. Mix all thoroughly together, put the mincemeat into a three-pound covered jar, and keep it in a dry place. Always have the mincemeat ready by Stir-up Sunday, and it will then be fit to use at Christmas. Bake in little tins the shape of a manger, with puff paste over and under the mincemeat.USEFUL SWEET DISHES 494 Trifle.—(Family Recipe.)—Trifle should be made the dav before it is wanted, and should be served in a china bowl. Lay six sponge biscuits close together at the bottom of the bowl, and pour over them, as much sherry as they will absorb. Then put a layer of ratafia cakes or fresh macaroons (those from a tin are much too hard), and sprinkle them with a little sherry. Put another layer of stale sponge cake, and spread it ■with strawberry or raspberry jam. Make a custard of half a pint of cream boiled for ten minutes with the very finely pared rind of one lemon; add another half pint of cream, and boil it ten minutes more. Strain the cream into a basin, sweeten it a little, and let it get cold. When it is cold, beat the yolks of six eggs for a quarter of an hour, strain them with the cream into a pan over a low fire, and stir with a plated spoon till it thickens. Put the custard to cool. Whip a pint of cream, sweeten it with a little sugar which has been rubbed on a lemon, and add to it one tablespoonful of brandy. As the froth rises take it off in a spoon, lay it on a dish, and leave it to become a little firm. Shake pounded ratafias over the top of the Trifle, pour the custard upon them, and finally pile up the froth of cream as high as possible. In helping Trifle use a long-handled spoon, and go down to the bottom. Tipsy Cake is Trifle under another name, with the addition that the sponge cakes are stuck with almonds, and that a little red currant jelly is laid on the custard. Apple Charlotte.—Choose apples which are known to bake well. Pare them, core them, and quarter them. Put the apple quarters with the cores, peel, and pips, into half a pint of water (or just enough to cover them), and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Let the apple quarters soak in this for half an hour, then take them out and dry them. Mince the apples, mince the peel of a lemon, and put all into a stewpan with just enough syrup to cover. Simmer the apples very gently, and take care they do not burn. When they are quite soft pass them through the sieve, stir in two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam (for eight smallish apples), and either two bruised cloves, or a dessertspoonful of kirsch. Put all back in the pan. and simmer it, stirring continually, till the marmalade is stiff. Leave it to rest whilst you prepare the mould. Butter the495 APPLE CHARLOTTE mould with, a brush. Cut some thin strips of white bread two inches wide and as long as the mould is high. If the mould narrows, narrow the strips of bread so that they may fit. Cut more slices of bread to fit the top of the mould neatly. Melt some butter in a soup-plate over hot water, and dip the slices of bread into it, dust them all over with sugar, putting plenty of sugar on the edges. Fit the strips of sugared bread close to each other in the mould so as to line it completely. Put in the mai’malade, cover the bottom neatly with slices of bread. Put a plate with a weight on the mould to keep the marmalade in place. Bake till the bread is crisp, and a pale brown. It will probably take three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Be very careful in turning the Apple Charlotte out. Hand castor sugar, and cream if liked. The difficulty in an Apple Charlotte is to know when it is just enough baked. French cooks do not use a mould at all, but a stewpan of the proper size. They surround the pan with hot charcoal, and keep hot charcoal on the lid, lifting the lid occasionally to see if the bread is turning brown. Many cooks cut a round of bread instead of slices for the top and bottom of the mould, and cut small round pieces for the sides, making them just overlap each other at the edges like the scales of a fish. The bread should not be thicker than that cut for thin bread and butter. Scotch Pineapple.—Peel some large oranges and apples of the same size. Cut the oranges in rounds across, using only slices nearly the same size. Make pyramids of alternate slices of orange and apple, sprinkling the orange slices with a few drops of brandy, and dusting the apple slices with sugar. Finish each pyramid with the piece left at the top of the orange. Remove the pips. Snow Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pint of cream, a teacupful of sherry, three lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon, the juice of the lemon, and the white of one egg. Beat all till it becomes a stiff froth, adding, if liked, a little more sugar. Lay a piece of gauze on an open-wove sieve, let the Snow Cheese stand on this all night to drain, and turn it carefully upon the dish. Apple Meringue.—(Family Recipe.)—Make a marmalade like that for Apple Charlotte, and a custard as on page 489.496 USEFUL SWEET DISHES Choose a deep dish, lay the marmalade upon it, and then the custard. Whip the whites of three eggs with sugar till the froth is stiff enough to he cut with a knife. Lay this meringue on the top of the custard, and lightly brown it with a sala- mander. In helping this, strike the spoon well to the bottom of the dish. Baked Apple Dumpling’S.—(Family Recipe.)—Pare and core the Apples. Fill up the hole left by the core with moist sugar, or quince marmalade. Take a piece of puff paste which will be large enough to cover a whole Apple. Do not roll the Apple in the paste, but lay the paste under the Apple, and draw it gently over the top, joining the edges by wetting them with a little water. Set the Apples on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a gentle oven for three-quarters of an hour. If the core is not filled with sugar dust the Apples well with castor sugar before you put on the paste. The paste should be thin. Caramelled Apples.—Peel, core, and quarter the Apples. Set them side by side in a roomy stewpan, with a squeeze of lemon, and cover them with boiling syrup. Simmer for an hour, shaking the pan occasionally. When the pieces of Apple are glazed a rich golden brown on the under-side turn them with a palette knife, and simmer for another quarter of an hour. Lift the Apple out, set to get cold, and sexwe cold with rice cream. (Page 463.) Jam OP Fruit Turnovers.—(Family Recipe.)—Use short- crust, not puff paste, and cut it into rounds the size of a large saucer for fruit, and a small saucer for jam. Wet the edges, and lay in the middle of each round either some fresh fruit (if apple it must be minced), with a little moist sugar, or a dessert- spoonful of jam. Fold the turnover, pressing the edges of the paste together. Bake on a buttered tin in a quick oven, fifteen minutes for jam, twenty minutes for fruit. Furmety. — (Family Recipe.)—To be eaten on Wake Sunday. Boil new wheat to a jelly. Add two quarts of new milk to one quart of jelly. Boil all together till well mixed, stirring well. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a little nut- meg and sugar, add well-washed currants, and stir in off the fire. Pour into cups, and serve cold. (Without the currants Furmety is good served with compotes.)497 COLD DISHES OF FRUIT. Macedoine Of Fruit.—(Family Recipe.)—Pat three lamps of sugar and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon into a quarter of a pint of water, and boil it for ten minutes. Then add twelve raspberries if possible; if not, add the juice of the half lemon. Let it boil up, skim it, and set it on ice till quite cold. Then add a dessertspoonful of brandy. Put all sorts of fruit, especially red currants, into a china bowl. Currants must be freed from stalks, cherries stoned, raspberries and currants picked, and peaches and apricots stoned and quartered. Crack the stones, peel the kernels, and add them to the fruit. Set the bowl on ice till wanted. Ten minutes before serving pour the cold syrup gently over the fruit. The Macedoine must be perfectly cold. If there is an old punch ladle use it for helping the Macedoine. German Kalte Schale (Cold Dish).—This is a sort of cold fruit soup, served in Germany in the place of ordinary soup during the summer. But here it is much liked as a form of macedoine, either at luncheon or at afternoon parties. Strawberries, Raspberries, or Cherries can be used. For the two first rub the fruit through a hair sieve, and add to the juice a bottle of Moselle and an equal quantity of water. Sweeten the fruit slightly. Have ready two dozen fine straw- berries or raspberries which have been rolled in sugar and set on ice. Put the Kalte Schale into a china bowl, set it on ice till wanted, and at the last moment drop the whole fruit in one by one, so that they float on the surface. For Cherries proceed in the same way, only using claret instead of Moselle. Stone all the cherries, boil the kernels, and rub them through the sieve with the fruit. The whole cherries added at the last must be stoned, but their stalks can be left on. Orange Kalte Schale is popular in winter. For this rub the rind of an orange upon as many lumps of sugar as may be liked ; probably about six will be enough. Put the sugar into the china bowl, pour on it a bottle of Moselle and an equal quantity of water, and let the sugar melt. Peel and quarter three or four oranges, remove the white part and the pips, and roll the quarters in sugar. Squeeze the juice of two oranges and one lemon through a cloth K K49s COLD DISHES OF FRUIT into the bowl, set it on ice, and add the pieces of orange at the last moment. Castor sugar should be at hand. Kalte Hchain can be helped into china cups, or large saucers. In Germany soup-plates are used. Germans eat slices of bread stewed with sugar and glazed in the oven with Kalte Schale. Here, croutons of sponge cake treated in the same way, or merely crisped in the oven, are popular. Strawberry Salad.—Pick the fruit carefully, lay it in a china bowl, dust it over with castor sugar, and sprinkle it with maraschino. Arrange the Strawberries in a pyramid, dusting and sprinkling each layer. Finally pour a liqueur-glass of maraschino drop by drop over all, and set the bowl on ice till wanted. American Strawberry Shortcake.—Make a girdle-cake, using sugar instead of salt (see Chapter XX). Split it, and let it get cold. Then spread it with whipped cream, cover this with. Strawberries rubbed through a sieve, and moistened with a little lemon-juice, dust with sugar, add another layer of cream, and put the other half of the cake lightly over all. Set the cake on ice till wanted, then cut it into strips with, a very sharp knife. ICES. Ices are now so easily made, thanks to modern inventions, that it is only necessary to buy a freezer, an ice-cave, and the book of directions suited to whatever ice-making machine is selected. In London, however, the cook is generally saved this trouble by dessert-ice from a confectioner. As to this, great caution is necessary, unless the lady of the house herself inquires what the ice will look like when sent in. More than once I have seen a sort of lighthouse erection of some substance like coloured talc, illuminated from within by a night-light or a bit of candle, and surrounded with the ice made to look like rocks. The ill-concealed chagrin of the hostess, and the unconcealed wrath of the host, may be imagined. Fruits, vegetables, flowers, animals, are all moulded in ices, and coloured to represent nature. In the Diamond Jubilee year this fashion ran riot. Ci'owns of orange cream-ice were adorned with jewels of crys-499 ICES tallised fruits. Necklaces of rubies, emeralds, and diamonds, were made of stiffly-frozen ice. Laurel wreaths, and loyal mottoes, were so common that a desire for simplicity was aroused. This, as I have heard, culminated in vanilla ices moulded to represent little bedroom candlesticks ! Carlsbad wafers, sold in round boxes, are by far the best wafers to hand with ices. PRESERVES. Those who possess gardens with plenty of fruit are wise if they make jam at home, for although excellent jam can be bought it is always much too sweet, a large quantity of sugar being used to make the jam keep long. Orange marmalade ought always to be made at home towards the end of February, the Seville oranges being in perfection at that time. Fruit jellies, too, are easily made, and most useful and popular at ■dessert. Little china moulds should be used for them, and they turn out very prettily both as to colour and shape. Jam pots or glasses should never be washed with either soap or soda ; if either is used the jam will be spoiled. They should be thoroughly washed in plenty of clean water, and wiped perfectly dry. It is easy to make good jam if a few simple rules are observed. (1.) Use only fresh fruit, which has been gathered in dry weather. (2.) Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of all fruit but stone fruit. Stone fruit requires a pound and a quarter of sugar. Break the sugar small, but do not pound it; if you do, the syrup will not be clear. Use the best sugar, as inferior kinds produce much more scum. (3.) Never put the preserving pan flat on the fire; if you do, the fruit will stick to it and burn, or, as cooks say, catch. Raise the pan on a trivet a little above the fire, and not directly over it. Stir the whole time whilst the fruit and sugar are boiling together, using a wooden spoon. An iron spoon would ruin both the flavour and the colour of any jam. Stir gently at first, and more quickly towards the end of the boiling. Skim off all scum as it rises. (4.) Put the fruit in the pan, sprinkle in sugar, and, as the fruit juices, go on adding the sugar. When K K 2500 PRESERVES it is all dissolved bring the jam to the boil. (5.) Never boil jam longer than twenty minutes. If it is boiled too long the jam will be sticky ; if not sufficiently boiled it will not keep. When the scum ceases to rise put a few drops of the jam on a cold plate; watch it for a minute, and if it sets and does not flow freely the jam is done. (6.) Warm the jam pots before you pour the hot jam into them, or they may crack. Fill them to within half an inch of the top, and -wipe off any drops spilt with a cloth wrung out in hot water. If this is not attended to there will be great difficulty in scraping off the drops when the jam has cooled. (7.) When the jam is cold, the day after it is made, lay a round of thin paper on the top of. it. Old- fashioned cooks always dipped this paper in brandy, believing that it preserved the jam. Then take the vegetable parchment covers sold for tying over jam pots, soak them for a minute or two in cold water, wipe them, stretch one over each pot, and tie it round with string. The parchment tightens itself as it dries, and excludes the air from the jam. When dry, write on each cover the name of the jam and the date. (8.) Always keep jam in a cool dry place. Damp makes it mouldy, heat makes it ferment. Never put one jam pot exactly on the top of another. Different fruits require different treatment when made into jam. For instance, strawberries must be carefully stirred, raspberries mashed down, and both these fruits, being soft and juicy, need less boiling than drier kinds. Dry fruits, such as apples, and watery fruits, such as cherries, should always be put into a covered jar set in a pan of boiling water, and kept there till thoroughly softened or cooked. Fruit, except the very juicy kinds, takes longer to boil than sugar, so that it is well to cook the fruit partially before adding the sugar. Over-boiled sugar spoils the texture of jam. The difference between jams and marmalades is that jam is the entire fruit bruised and boiled with sugar, and marmalade is the pulp of the fruit, deprived of seeds or peel. The word “ marmalade ” is derived from the Portuguese word marmela, a quince, for marmalade was first made from quinces by Portuguese nuns. Rhubarb jam requires the addition of lemon-peel and aPRESERVES 5ox little root-ginger. Green tomatoes make excellent jam if half an ounce of ginger is simmered with each pound of fruit. Crab-apple jam much improves an apple tart. If you want to preserve fruit whole, leave it all night in a dish, with three-quarters of its weight in sugar sprinkled over it. Take an equal quantity of the same fruit, of inferior size to the selected specimens, and cook it in a covered jar set in boiling water. Next day add half a pint of this juice to every pound of whole fruit, and let it all rest again for twenty-four hours. Be careful not to mash or break the fruit in pouring the juice over it. Finally, pour off the syrup from the fruit, add a quai’ter of a pound of sugar for every half-pint of juice, and let if boil. When it boils, put in the fruit vei’y carefully. Boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, stir and skim most carefully and gently. The fruit ought to be firm and “plumped,” and the syrup when cold will be rather thick. If fruit is not given time to marinade in the syrup it will shrivel instead of “ plumping.” For Fruit Jellies only the clear juice of the fruit is used. The fruit must be softened in a jar set in boiling water, and the juice allowed to drip through a hair sieve, or canvas. It must on no account be pressed or rubbed, but there is no objection to a plate with a weight on it being put on the top of the fruit. Boil the juice for ten minutes, weigh it, add half a pound of sugar for every pint of juice when it boils up again, and boil sharp for from five to ten minutes longer, skimming off all scum. Medlars and Quinces make such good and pretty Jellies that it is quite worth while to buy the fruit on purpose. Orange Jelly is very good made in small moulds, and the top of each covered when served with one or two divisions of orange which have been freed from pips and white and soaked in cold syi’up till they sink in it. For this syrup allow half a pound of sugar to a pint of water. Bottled Fruit.—For green gooseberries and green currants top and tail them, or pick them from the stalks, being in each case careful not to burst the fruit. Fill wide-mouthed bottles with them, tie over the mouths paper with pricked holes, stand the bottles in boiling water, and just let the fruit turn colour (no sugar or anything with the fruit). Take the bottles out, cork and seal them. [.Mrs. Earle.']PRESERVES 502 For Morelia Cherries.—(Family Recipe.)—Gather them when almost, but not quite, ripe. Bum six matches in every bottle, taking them out, and leaving the bottle full of steam. Put in the cherries immediately unstoned, and with half the stalks left on. Then proceed as for green gooseberries. When the cherries drop they are done enough. When they are perfectly cold cork them tightly and seal the corks. It used to be the custom to bury bottles containing bottled fruit, corks downward, in a garden border, so as to exclude the aii* from them. But Mrs. Earle has invented an admirable plan of sealing them. Her method is : Two parts of beeswax, one part of resin, one part powdered colour (Venetian red). Melt the beeswax and resin in an old iron saucepan. (Only melt, do not boil.) Then stir in the colour and let it cool a little, both to avoid the pungent vapours and to thicken slightly. Dip the corked tops of the bottles while holding them horizontally over the pot, and turn them round so as to ran the extra stuff into the joint; they are the better for a second dip. Leave the remains of the wax to harden in the pot, which should be used for this purpose only. It can be melted at any time, and more added as wanted. Orange Marmalade.—(Family Recipe.)—Allow for every pound of oranges one pint of water and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Pare Seville oranges very thin, and boil the rind till tender. Boil it in plenty of water for about three-quarters of an hour, when it should be so tender that a straw can pierce it. Then cut it into very thin strips. Take off the second or white coat of the oranges and throw it away. Then scrape out the pulp and juice very carefully, and throw the pips and shining parts into cold water. After remaining a little time in the water squeeze them through a cloth, and add a pint of that water to every three-quarters of a pound of sugar. The reason for steeping the pips is that a glutinous substance from them is preserved in the water, which gives much richness to the Marmalade. Boil the syrup for twenty minutes, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a pint of water to every pound of orange pulp. Put the pulp and juice into the syrup,ORANGE MARMALADE 5°3 and boil for half an hour, carefully skimming off the scum as it rises. During the last five minutes add the shreds of orange peel. Put the Marmalade into pots, and tie down next day. Clear Orange Marmalade.—{Family Recipe.)—In this Marmalade there are no shreds of peel. Cnt the oranges in half, and boil them for three-quarters of an hour, allowing a pint of water to twelve oranges. Strain off the juice, and boil it up sharp for ten minutes. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil for twenty or twenty-five minutes, till it jellies. Four oranges make a pound pot of Marmalade. Mixbury Quince Marmalade.—(Family Recipe.)—Scald the Quinces, pare, core, and quarter them. To four pounds of Quinces put three pounds and a half of sugar. Boil three pints of the water the Quinces were "scalded in, and boil the parings and cores in it. Strain, and add this water to the Quinces and sugar. Let them stand all night. Set them over a slow fire to boil, skimming and stirring them all the time they are cooking. Eaton Banks Quince Jelly.—{Family Recipe.)—Peel, but do not divide the Quinces. Remove every particle of decay. Fill the pan and lay the best of the parings over the frnit. Add as much water as will prevent burning. Cover close and let them stew ten minutes. Strain through a coarse cloth to extract the juice, but do not squeeze the fruit, or the juice will be thick. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then pour it off as clear as possible. Boil three-quarters of an hour with sugar, and pour hot into the moulds. The Jelly improves by keeping. Siberian Marmalade.—(Family Recipe.)—Coddle (that is, parboil) the Crabs, pulp them through a sieve or colander. Pare six large apples, boil them quite soft, and strain them through a sieve. To every quart of Crab pulp add a gill of the apple liquor. To one pound of pulp put three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil all together for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. (Siberian Crabs were introduced into England from Siberia in 1758.) Siberian jelly.—Take off the stalks and well wash the Crabs. Put them into a preserving pan with just enough water to cover them, and boil them till quite tender. Rub themPRESERVES 5°4 through a brass wire sieve, and for every pound of pulp allow a pound of sugar. Bring it to the boil, simmer for three-quarters of an hour, and put into jars. It will become firm as it cools. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'] Or put the jelly into small moulds, to be turned out for dessert. The fruit of the Pyrus Japonica is excellent if preserved in this way. Three-quarters of a pound of sugar is enough in both cases if the preserve is not liked very sweet. Siberian Cheese.—Wipe the Crabs clean, and cut out any specks with a silver dessert knife. Put them in a covered jar in a slow oven and let them cook till quite tender. Squeeze them through the coarse canvas called cheese-cloth, allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of pulp, and boil for half an hour, skimming well. Put into moulds, and paper the preserve. Siberian Crabs must never be pared or cored, or the flavour will be lost. Damson Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Stew the Damsons as usual in the jar set in boiling water till tender. Rub them through a coarse sieve to take off the skins and to take out the stones. Crack the stones, and blanch the kernels. Boil the cheese one hour before you put in the sugar. Allow one pound of sugar to two quarts of damson pulp. Boil, stirring well, till it is thick. Keep the fire low. You must put in the kernels a few minutes before you take the cheese off the fire. It must boil to a candy, and may take seven hours. You need not stir constantly after the cheese has well thickened. Pour it into shallow moulds. It will be done when it leaves the sides of the pan. Cheshire and Shropshire are celebrated for Damsons. Bullaee Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Stew the bullaces as usual, taking care to keep the water in the pan as high as the bullaces in the jar. Proceed as for Damson Cheese. A peck and a half of damsons or bullaces will make ten pints of cheese. Cover the moulds with brandy paper when cold. The Bullaee is the wild plum of English hedgerows. Clear Apple Jelly.—(Family Recipe, 1835.)—Pare and core half a peck of green apples, cut them and two small lemons and drop them as you cut into two quarts of water. Add the apple parings and cores. Boil very slowly till the fruit is quite a pulp. Then strain it through a jelly-bag. To every pint ofCLEAR APPLE JELLY 5°5 liquor add half a pound of lump sugar. Boil the whole very fast with the peel of the two lemons three-quarters of an hour, or till it will jelly, which may be tried by putting a very little on a cold plate. It must be well skimmed all the time of boiling. When sufficiently done take out all the lemon-peel, and pour the jelly into moulds or pots for use. Medlar Jelly.—Gather the medlars when quite sound, wipe them well, and let them stew in the preserving pan with just enough water to cover them till they are in a pulp. Drain through canvas, but do not press the pulp. Weigh the juice and allow half a pound of sugar to every pint. Boil till quite clear, stirring and skimming well. When it jellies pour it into small moulds and let it set. When firm and stiff lay a fitted round of paper dipped in brandy over each mould. Currant Rob.—(Family Recipe.)—Put the Black Currants in a jar in the oven. When they fall squeeze the juice from them and rub the pulp through a hair sieve on dishes, and dry it on a hot plate or before the fire. When dry cut it into squares half an inch across. Of the juice make black-currant jelly as the red is done. Currant Jelly.—(Family Recipe.')—Strip the Currants, and put them into the oven. When done enough pass them through a hair sieve or a coarse cloth. To every pint of juice allow a pound of sugar well beaten and sifted. Heat the sugar on a dish in the oven between two sheets of writing paper, and when the juice has boiled one or two minutes strew the sugar in by degrees whilst it is hot. It will jelly immediately and gain flavour by keeping. Put the jelly at once into pots. Currant Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—To six pounds of currants add four pounds of sugar and half a pint of currant juice. Stir the fruit well together in a pan, set it on a brisk fire, and when it boils up all round pass it through a cloth into a basin with a lip, and pour it into pots. Let them remain uncovered for nine days, then cover with brandy paper and tie up. Red, white, and black-currant jelly are all good made in this way. Brandy Cherries.—(Family Recipe.)—To every pound of Morelia cherries stalked but not stoned add three-quarters of a pound of best sugar. Take a few cherries and bruise them,PRESERVES 506 take as much of the juice as will make the sugar into a very thick syrup. Fill the bottles with cherries pricked with a fine needle. Let the syrup be quite cold, then pour it on the cherries, and fill the bottles up with luandy. Prunes in Cherry Brandy.—Choose a pound jar of the best French plums (prunes), and get a pint bottle of good cherry brandy. Put the prunes in an enamelled saucepan with as much light claret as will cover them, a blade of cinnamon, the zest and juice of one lemon, and two ounces of sugar. Stew very slowly till soft and till the wine has been nearly absorbed by the prunes. Put the prunes back in the jar with such of the liquid as may remain, and pour as much cherry bi’andy into it as the prunes will admit. Cover, and after a few hours examine the jar; if the liquid no longer covers the prunes add a little more. Screw on the top. Never let the jar be empty, but as the prunes are used refill it -with freshly stewed ones, adding cherry brandy from time to time. [Wyvern.] Blackberry Jelly.—This is much improved if half bullaces and half blackberries can be used. Keep it for six weeks before you turn it out. Scotch “Jaam Jeelly."—This is made from the berries of Mountain Ash trees gathered when they are quite red but not quite ripe. Take off the stalks and stew the berries as usual in the jar set in boiling water. They take a long time to get tender, but in the end they make a very good and pretty jelly. It is as good for coughs as black-currant jelly. For Mountain Ash berries allow a pound of sugar to a pound of pulp. Toffee.—Toffee certainly is not a Preserve, but the recipe seems to find its natural place in this chapter. On a wet day in the holidays children enjoy nothing more than making Toffee, and making it and tasting it whilst it is making will employ several boys and girls for hours. Put a pound of either crushed loaf sugar or brown sugar into a small preserving-pan, over a clear fire. Add a gill of water, and dissolve the sugar in it. When it is quite melted add from three to four ounces of fresh butter, and stir gently and continually over the fire for fifteen minutes, being very careful not to let the mixture burn. Drop a bit into coldTOFFEE 5°7 water, and try if it breaks crisp and clear between the teeth ; if it does, the Toffee is ready. Pour it on to well-buttered dishes, plates, or baking sheets, adding a little lemon-juice to each. Before the Toffee gets cold, mark out with a sharp knife the dice or other shapes in which you wish to divide it, for it will not break easily afterwards. Shred almonds can be added before the Toffee is poured on to the plates. Or treacle can be used instead of the sugar.5°8 CHAPTER XIX. HORS D’CEUVRES—TOASTS AND SAVOURIES—CHEESE. Hors d’CEuvres.—The custom of serving Hoi’s d’CEuvres, or small portions of cold smoked or pickled fish, raw ham or sausage, reindeer’s tongue, pickled cucumber or gherkins, is entirely foreign, although it has become fashionable in England. Hors d’CEuvres reach their highest development in Russia, where they are served whilst the guests wait for dinner in an ante-room. Russians will eat a little of several of these dishes, and will drink vodka or liqueur with them before beginning dinner at all. Hors d’CEuvres are supposed to act as a whet to appetite. But, to quote Sir Henry Thompson, “ for individuals “ endowed with fairly good appetite and digestion both pickled “ food and spirit are undesirable, especially on an empty “ stomach. And if appetite and digestion are wanting, the “ stimulant of the Hors d’CEuvres is unnatural and prejudicial. “ They have been introduced here chiefly, I think, because their “ presence, being- demanded by foreign gastronomic taste, is “ supposed to be therefore necessarily correct. But the active “ exercise and athletic habits of the Englishman, his activity of “ body and mind in commercial pursuits, all tend to bring him “ to the dinner-table wanting food rather than appetite, and in “ no mind to ask for ‘whets’ to increase it.” (Food and Feed- ing, page 148.) Sir Henry Thompson’s authority is supported by TVyvern, who doubts whether nineteen people out of twenty like their Hors d’CEuvres, or would touch them if left entirely to themselves in the matter. They only adopt the practice because others do it. Oysters, the one delicacy peculiar to England, which is served before the soup, do not form a HorsHORS D’CEUVRES 5°9 d’CEuvi-e at all. Oysters are, to use Sir Henry Thompson’s words, the first dish of dinner and not its precursor. Hors d’CEuvres, however, do not give much trouble to the cook, for they are all ready prepared when bought, and need only to be delicately sliced, freed, if necessary, from oil, and tastefully garnished with little bunches of cress or parsley. If a variety is liked the Hors d’CEuvres are generally placed in a special dish divided into compartments. But a simpler and better way is to cut a small canape of stale bread, and after spreading it with some suitable fancy butter, to arrange upon it strips of filleted anchovy and olive, or fish-roe and gherkin or capsicum, or any similar combination. Garnish with powdered yolk of egg or ham. Only a mouthful is required, and only a couple of savoury morsels which harmonise well with each other should be used. The canapes should be quite small; either oblongs two inches long and one and a half broad, or little rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. Either white or brown bread can be used, but it must be stale and cut very thin. Place one canape in each plate. The fashionable and elaborate canapes designed in variegated patterns of six or seven colours, and offering six or seven different flavours, should be strictly avoided. Instead of using canapes of bread the Hors d’CEuvres can be served in little pastry saucers baked in oval patty-pans two and a half inches long, and filled with raw rice till cold. Or little hollow croustades may be used. For these: Cut out of stale bread pieces two inches square, and half an inch thick; in the centre of each stamp with a pastry cutter a circle an inch and a half across, pressing the cutter down quite a quarter of an inch deep. Fry a pale golden colour in butter, drain, dry, and when the croustades are cold pick out the hollow marked by the cutter, using the point of a small, sharp knife. Either of these cases is suitable for olives farcies, or turned olives. TOASTS AND SAVOURIES. Savouries are much more appreciated and much more care- fully prepared than they used to be. Sir Henry Thompson observes in Food and Feeding, page 185, that “ the palate mustTOASTS AND SAVOURIES 5io “ be rendered dean—prepared to rest—by the delicate savoury “ morsel which terminates the menu." Savouries can be served in infinite variety, and in this way a cook, by the exercise of a little forethought, can turn many fragments into tempting morsels—fragments which a stupid person would look on as altogether useless. I wonld again uige that variety of colour should he avoided. Savouries are made to eat and not to look at, to gratify the palate and not to startle the eye by gaudy colours which can hut cause a thought of the amount of fingering required to produce them. Toasts are amongst the most useful of Savouries. The great point is to serve them as hot as possible. If toast is used it must he very carefully made, not scorched and not smoked, hut evenly browned all over. Such toast must he served the moment the savoury mixture is spread upon it, or it will become spongy. Many people who have good teeth prefer crisp slices of bread three inches long by two broad, or rounds of bread three inches across, fried in good butter to a bright golden tint. Whether the bread is toasted or fried it must be served without waiting a moment. The mixture should be previously pre- pared, kept hot, spread on the toast the instant it is ready, and sent to table at once. Anchovy Toast.—For this Wyvem gives two excellent recipes. (1.) Wipe and drain two anchovies, split them open, take out their spines, and pass them through a hair sieve into a bowl. Stir the yolks of two raw eggs into the anchovy pulp. Fry four toasts, put them into a very hot dish, or set them in the mouth of the oven. Now melt a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, set the pan in the bain-marie, or in a larger pan of boiling water, stir the anchovy pulp and egg into the melted butter, let it thicken, and when quite hot spread it on the toasts, and serve at once. (2.) Put a soup-plate over a small basin of boiling water, melt a dessertspoonful of butter in the plate, add the well-beaten yolks of two raw eggs, and stir in as much anchovy sauce as will colour it salmon-pink. If you use more it will be too salt. Keep all very hot. During this time another person must be carefully toasting slices of bread. Let each toast be brought straight from the fire, turned over on both sides in the anchovy mixture, and serve at once in a veryANCHOVY TOAST 511 hot dish. Or let the toasts soak in the mixture and then crisp them in the oven. For specially good Toasts of nearly all sorts, including anchovy, savoury custard poured over the surfaces at the last moment is much to be recommended. For this : Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, and reserve the whites for some other dish. Allow two ounces of butter to each yolk. Put two tablespoonfuls of water into a small saucepan, and let it boil. Take it off the fire, and stir the two yolks of eggs well into the hot water. Lower the fire, and over very gentle heat add ounce by ounce the four ounces of butter, whisk all till it thickens smoothly, season with pepper and salt, and pour over the anchovy toasts. Be careful the custard does not approach boiling, for if it does it will curdle and become lumpy instead of being thick and smooth. Anchovy Toast thus covered is often given the ridiculous name of Scotch Woodcock. A real Woodcock Toast is quite different, for it is intended to resemble the flavour of the trail peculiar to a woodcock. For this : Take two freshly-boiled fowls’ livers (if possible from geese), pound them to a paste, mixing with it an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, or the pounded flesh of one anchovy, a pinch of salt, the yolk of a raw egg, and a tablespoonful of melted glaze. If possible make the glaze from game bones. Dust a little herb pepper over the mixture, pass it through the sieve, and set it aside on a clean plate. Prepare four squares of fried bread half an inch thick, spread the liver paste over them, and set them in the mouth of the oven to retain their heat, but not to burn. Now heat up in the bain-marie a breakfastcupful of the savoury custard, cover the Woodcock Toasts with it, and serve at once. Bloatep Toast.—Take off the head, tail, and skin of the bloater, fry the bloater in butter, and when cold pick all the meat from the bones. Pound the meat and the roe with half an ounce of butter, season well with pepper, add a pinch of Nepaul pepper, and pass through a hair sieve. Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a little stewpan, stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour, mix well and moisten with a gill of broth or milk, add the bloater puree till the sauce is as thick as jam, and spread it liberally over six fried toasts.TOASTS AND SAVOURIES 5r2 Devilled Sctl’diriGS on T03.StS.—Out the toasts a quarter of an inch thick, and of a size to carry a sardine easily. Free the Sai’dines from oil (see page 96), skin them, and with a slice lay them in a row on a well-buttered fire-proof dish. Dust them over with Nepaul pepper and salt, and sprinkle them with finely-minced capers, chervil, and parsley. Put the dish in the oven, and. set the fried toasts in it to get crisp. Melt an ounce of glaze and slightly pepper it. As soon as both sardines and toasts are very hot lay the toasts on a very hot dish, lift a sardine upon each with a slice, and brush them over with the glaze. Finnan Haddock on Toast.—Pick off the meat and pound it with butter and one fillet of anchovy. Allow a table- spoonful of picked haddock for each toast, and season with a dust of Nepaul pepper. Warm up the fish in a gill of white sauce, but do not let it boil. Add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, and spread the mixture on the toasts. Shrimp Toasts.—Pick and pound the shrimps as for Shrimp Butter (see page 116). Allow two tablespoonfuls of butter to half a pint of picked shrimps, melt this in a small saucepan over a low fire, then put in the shrimps and stir them about for some minutes till they have absorbed all the butter. Spread the toasts with the pounded extract of the shells, then put the shrimps on them, and dust over with Nepaul pepper. Do not add salt, as the shrimps are salt enough already. The remains of cooked lobster or crab can be done in the same way. Marrow Toasts.—Gret the marrow taken from the bone in fairly large pieces, blanch it for five minutes, drain it, and let it get quite cold. Then cut the marrow into small pieces, put it on a fire-proof dish, season with‘pepper and salt, and brush it over with liquid glaze. Warm it, keep it hot by the side of the fire. Prepare the toasts, and brush the marrow rather thickly over them. Simple Toasts.—The preceding i-ecipes are intended for Savoury Toasts at the end of dinner. But Simple Toasts are always popular at breakfast and luncheon, and are most useful as a pleasant way of using up cold cooked fish, meat, game, or vegetables. Buttered eggs (page 398) are an improvement to many of these Simple Toasts.5i3 FISH TOASTS For Fish Toasts free the cold cooked fish from all bones and skin, chop it up in a soup-plate, working in a little butter to make it moist. Then add a small quantity of white sauce, or of any suitable fish sauce which may be left from dinner, and the yolk of an egg. Warm all up in the bain-marie, but do not let it boil. When thick enough and quite hot pour the mixture over the toasts. Buttered eggs can be mixed with the fish mince or laid on the top of it; or the savoury custard given before, page 511. Meat Toasts.—In all these a small quantity, say half a pint, of well-flavoured savoury broth must be mixed with the pounded or minced meat. The scraps of meat used for this will need vegetable flavouring, and the addition of half an ounce of glaze. Ham Toast.—(Family Recipe.)—Mince the ham very small, put it into a saucepan with a whole raw egg and a little butter, pour in the warm but not hot broth by degrees, heat it gradually in the bain-marie, thicken it, and put upon the toasts. Cold minced chicken may be mixed with the ham. Season with pepper, but no salt. Or make Buttered Eggs, and stir into them plenty of grated ham before they are poured on the toasts. Ham Toast.—(Mrs. G. W. Earle.)—Eight ounces of minced ham, one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce and the same of Worcester, a teaspoonful of curry paste, a small piece of butter, a good tablespoonful of white sauce, and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Mix all together, warm up and serve very hot. (Worcester Sauce, which is known all over the world, and is, in my opinion, far too widely used, originated in an Oriental recipe brought from the East by the second Lord Sandys many years ago. Lord Sandys, on his return to Ombersley, his place near Worcester, happened to call at the druggists’, Lea and Perrin’s, and, as he was leaving the shop, said he chanced to have a recipe which might be useful to them. This, at any rate, is the story told of the origin of that celebrated Sauce by which Lea and Perrin and their descendants have made- enormous fortunes.) Kidney Toast.—This is strongly recommended by Wyvern* Take two uncooked sheep’s kidneys, and blanch them for one minute in scalding water. (This should invariably be done LLTOASTS AND SAVOURIES 5J4 before kidneys are cooked, in order to remove the strong taste inseparable from them.) Lift the kidneys out and dry them in a cloth. Make half a pint of strong gravy out of bones and scraps, add half an ounce of glaze, and stew the kidneys in it till they are tender, seasoning it with a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of mignonette pepper. Take the kidneys out, drain them, and pour the gravy through a fine strainer into a bowl. Cut up the kidneys, pound them to a paste with some butter, and pass through the hair sieve. When ready, skim any fat off the gravy. Melt a dessertspoonful of butter at the bottom of a medium-sized saucepan, stir into it a dessertspoonful and a half of flour ; when it is creamy add by degrees alternately a tablespoonful of the gravy and one of the kidney paste until all the paste is used. Flavour the puree with one dessertspoonful of Marsala, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of anchovy vinegar, a few drops of cbili vinegar, and half a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly. Let all thicken properly by coming to the boil, and spread the puree on four toasts. Serve very hot. Cold cooked kidneys can be prepared in the same way, only they do not require stewing before they are cut up. The half-pint of brotb is, of course, essential. Game Toasts.—Prepare these exactly like Kidney Toast, only making the brotb with pounded game bones and scraps instead of meat trimmings. Many people -would omit the vinegar in the flavouring. In all Meat or Game Purees the mixture should be reduced till it is thick enough to rest upon the toasts and not to flow over into the dish. Vegetable Toasts.—Almost all vegetables can be worked up into good purees, and served plainly on hot toasts. Or they may be spread on anchovy toasts, with or without buttered eggs above them. Such vegetables as sprigs of cauli- flower, or artichoke bottoms, can be warmed in veloute sauce or poulette sauce before they are laid on the toasts, or savoury custard may cover them. Many Vegetable Toasts are improved by the addition of a little grated cheese. Cold cooked French beans are good cut into thin sti’ips, and moistened with Soubise sauce. Sauce Milanaise is suited to man}* Vegetable Toasts.5*5 HOT SAVOURIES. Devilled Biscuits.—Use either water biscuits (page 535) or Bath Olivers. (1.) Plain.—For these: Melt half an ounce of butter in a small saute-pan, lay the biscuits on the butter, turning them over a low fire, till the butter browns. Pepper them on both sides with grill seasoning (see page 149), put the biscuits on a very hot dish, pour the browned butter over them, and serve. (2.) Devilled Biscuits with herring roes.—Allow six soft roes of bloaters or of cooked fresh herrings to eight biscuits. If bloaters are used pound the roes to a paste in a mortar with an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a dust of pepper. Empty this paste into a soup- plate put over a small basin of hot water, moisten it well with the yolks of two raw eggs. Cover the plate, and keep it as hot as possible. Now choose a large saute-pan, melt two ounces of butter in it, lay the biscuits in the butter so that they just touch each other but do not overlap. Set the pan over a moderate fire, and turn the biscuits about to heat well and absorb the butter. Do not let the butter burn. Pepper freely, take the biscuits out, spread a layer of roe paste over each, dust again with pepper, crisp them for a moment on a wire drainer in the oven, and serve very hot. Or if fresh herring roes are used, do not cut them, but warm them thoroughly over a low fire. When they are hot season well with Nepaul pepper, curl each roe round and lay it on a devilled biscuit. Or use smoked cod’s roe in the same way. Allow a teaspoonful of roe to each biscuit, melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan over a low fire, stir in the roe, add the yolks of two eggs, stir till it thickens, spread the mixture over the biscuits, set them in the oven for three or four minutes, and serve very hot. Or grill a mushroom for each devilled biscuit, season with pepper and salt, and serve at once. Or have ready a dessertspoonful of finely-minced ham for each biscuit, well moistened with brown sauce (see page 134), make a gill and a half of savoury custard as for toasts. Keep all L L 2HOT SAVOURIES 516 very hot. When required lay the devilled biscuits on a very hot dish, spread the minced ham over each, mask each with the savoury custard, sprinkle over the surfaces a little grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. Or mix together three tea- spoonfuls of salt, one of black pepper, and half a one of Nepaul pepper. Devil the biscuits well with this whilst the butter browns, and lay on the top neat little fillets of grilled kippered salmon. [ Wyvern^ BeUPPe au Diable.—This is very useful for spreading on toasts, biscuits, etc., under savouries. Put a minced shallot, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, and a little minced parsley into a small stewpan, and add just sufficient chili vinegar to cover them. Bring it to the boil, drain, and let it get cold. Pound three anchovies, freed from'oil and boned, in a mortar with four ounces of clarified butter, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one dessertspoonful of curry paste, and the herbs and shallot. Add a dust of cayenne, and rub all through a fine sieve. Anchovy Biscuits.—Drain six anchovies from oil, and pound them in a mortar with two ounces of butter, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies and a dust of cayenne. Rub all through a sieve, and spread the mixture on water biscuits. Set them in the oven to get quite hot, and put strips of filleted anchovies on the top of each. Or pound the anchovies with an ounce of butter, the yolk of a raw egg, and a teaspoonful of curry powder. Rub through the sieve into a stewpan, and let it get quite hot. Spread the mixture on hot fried croutons, and dust cayenne pepper over. Fried Anchovies.—Free twelve anchovies from oil and bone them. Dip each in a batter made as described on page 465, and fry them one by one in plenty of boiling suet. Pry the anchovies a golden brown, drain them, and dish on a napkin. Taptelettes aux Anchois.—Butter six oval patty-pans two and a half inches long, and line them with paste made by mixing three ounces of flour, an ounce and a half of butter, an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan, and the yolk of one egg, to a dough with half a gill of water. Have ready eight fillets of anchovy drained, boned, and passed through a hair sieve.TARTELETTES AUX ANCHOIS 5*7 Pound four ounces of fresh whiting or haddock, pass it through a hair sieve, add to it two ounces of panada and two of butter, and season lightly with pepper and salt. Moisten the whole with a well-beaten egg, and mix in the anchovy puree. Fill the pastry cases, dust over the surface with finely-sifted raspings, and bake. Sei’ve at once on a hot napkin dusted over with grated cheese. Hand Nepaul pepper. For Tartelettes a la Norvegienne make the pastry cases as above, fill them with raw rice, bake them a pale brown, empty out the rice, and keep the cases hot. Take an ounce of Norwegian lax (preserved salmon in slices) from the tin, free it from oil, wipe it, and pound in a mortar with one fillet of anchovy, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and an ounce of butter. Pass all through the sieve. Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a little saucepan, stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour, and a gill of milk, thicken, add the lax paste, fill the hot cases, and serve as in the last recipe. [ Wyvern.~\ Simple and excellent Savouries may he made by spreading fried croiltes, or by filling croutes creuses, with a puree of anchovy, or lax, or bloater roe. Allow four anchovies, or two ounces of lax or of bloater roe to the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and two ounces of butter. Season with Nepaul pepper, pound, and pass through the sieve. The lax puree is improved by pounding a couple of fillets of anchoyy with it. The dry Shrimp Curry (see page 117) forms a capital Savoury served very hot in little open pastry saucers two and a half inches across. Allow a tahlespoonful for each. Scallops cut into quarter-inch squares and done in the same way are equally good. Both Savouries may be called Oroides Creuses d VIndienne. COLD SAVOURIES. Of these Caviare, or the roe of the sturgeon, is considered the greatest delicacy. To enjoy Caviare in perfection it must be eaten fresh. Sir Henry Thompson speaks of “ the grey, pearly, succulent, and delicate Caviare eaten in Moscow,” and adds that the “ black herring-flavoured small-seeded Caviare eaten here is but as the shadow to the substance.” However,5lS COLT) SAVOURIES in tliese days of express trains even this difficulty lias been sur- mounted. Monsieur Xanine, Russian Stores, Queen’s Road, Bayswater, imports fresh Caviare from his own fisheries at Astrakhan (where the Caviare is considered the best in Russia^, and, travelling packed in ice, it arrives here, to use Wyvem’s words, “ grey-green, mild, large-grained, and delicious.” Rus- sians eat Caviare quite plain with cold dry toast only. English people generally like a little lemon-juice and pepper. Of course Caviare must in no case be served hot. The jar con- taining it should be kept on ice, and the Caviare should be served in the jar, with thin slices of crisp cold dr}' toast, or water biscuits. Monsieur Xanine also imports excellent salted and pressed Caviare. This makes a good Savoury if spread on cold croutons of fried bread, and masked with mayonnaise or tartare sauce stiffened with a little aspic jelly made from fish glaze. Other aspic must not be used. Caviare is largely imported from Germany and from America, but the quality is not nearly equal to the true Russian delicacy. Olives.—Those who like Olives generally prefer eating them plain. But they can be served as a Savoury in several ways. (1.) Turn the Olives, and fill the cavities with anchovy paste seasoned with cayenne. Stamp out small rounds of brown bread, spread them with anchovy butter, put an olive on each round, with a fillet of anchovy twisted round the olive at the base. (2.) Fill the cavities with firm tartare sauce, set each olive on a cold fried crouton, and curl an anchovy fillet round the olive. (3.) Fill a border mould with vegetable aspic, arranging turned olives at intervals. Put small salad in the centre. (4.) Olives farcies can be bought ready for use. In this case wipe each olive carefully to get rid of the oil in which Olives farcies are preserved. Make a custard a la Royale thus : In a small bowl beat up three fresh eggs, add a gill of milk, two tablespoonfuls of cream and one of grated Parmesan, season it, pour the custard into buttered dariole moulds, steam gently till set, and let them get cold. Then with a scoop make a hollow in the centre of each, slip an olive into it, cover the opening ■with a little wad of the custard which has been scooped out, turn out the moulds, arrange them in a circle, and garnish with small salad. [See page 351.]5i9 HAM BOUCHEES Ham Bouchees.—Grate half a pound of lean ham, mix gently with it a quarter of a pint of whipped cream seasoned with white pepper and cayenne. Have ready some little cold pastry cases, or croutes creuses, and fill them neatly with the mixture. Sardine Bouchees.—Drain six sardines and three anchovies, pound them in a mortar with enough butter to moisten them and three hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Pass through a sieve, add a little more butter, and two ounces of breadcrumbs, season with white pepper and cayenne, and sprinkle some minced parsley over. Line some deep tartlet moulds with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, bake them in a quick oven, and serve them cold, garnished with parsley. Chicken Bouchees.—Pry round croutons in butter ; when cold spread each thinly with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Upon this arrange a layer of little slices of cold chicken, then some lettuce very finely shred, and finish with a filleted anchovy at the top. Bouchees a la Dauphine.—Choose twelve bouchee moulds, line them with melted aspic jelly an eighth of an inch thick, keep them on ice, fill them with anchovy cream, and when set turn them out. Dish in a circle, garnish with hard-boiled eggs and cress. Por the anchovy cream : Take four hard-boiled yolks of egg, twelve fillets of anchovy, and two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce. Pound, pass all through a hair sieve, add a gill of diluted aspic, and fill the hollows of the lined moulds. Let this set. [Wyvern.] Cremes aux Champignons.—Peel and remove the stalks from half a pound of light-coloured mushrooms, and scrape out the gills with a silver spoon. Cut up the mushrooms, sprinkle them with salt and lemon-juice, and cover them. Flavour two gills of milk with the mushroom trimmings well wiped and finely minced, season with salt and white pepper, boil it up, and simmer for ten minutes. Strain this off, wipe out the pan, put into it half an ounce of butter and the same of flour, mix, add the strained milk, and the cut-up mushrooms. Boil up again, and simmer, adding a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and stirring carefully. When the mushrooms are quite soft, empty the contents of the pan upon a hair sieve, and pass all through it.COLD SAVOURIES 520 Add half a gill of whipped cream, mix well, pour into small darioles, and set over ice. Serve garnished with watercress. \_Wyvern.~\ Dutch Herring'S.—These are salted and prepared differently from our English kippered herrings, and are imported from Holland in small tubs. Before they are used they must be washed, dried, and soaked in milk. Cut off the heads and tails of the herrings, split them down the centre, and divide each half into fillets. Lay the herrings in an oblong dish, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, and pour over the herrings this sauce : Mix four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and two of tarragon vinegar, and add half a teaspoonful of minced parsley, of shallot, and of gherkins. Season with pepper and salt. ‘ ‘ Wy vern’S ” Sardines.—Sardines can be greatly improved by being treated as Norwegian anchovies. Open a tin of the best sardines, lay them one by one on a dish. Tilt it, and pour a little scalding water gently over the row of sardines till all the fishy oil is drained off them. Dry them one by one in a cloth. Take one of the square earthenware pots sold for holding sardine tins, scald it out and dry it thoroughly. Blanch and slice an onion, and put a layer of the slices at the bottom of the pot with a bay leaf and a peppercoi’n or two. Arrange over this a layer of sardines, and continue the process till you have used them all. Then pour into the pot a marinade of oil and vinegar (allowing one spoonful of vinegar to four of oil), using enough of it to cover the whole. In a few days the sardines may be eaten. Salted Almonds.—Take well blanched and dried sweet almonds, allow an ounce of butter for half a pound of almonds, and let them brown in the oven on a baking-tin. Turn each almond occasionally with a knife, to ensure that all are evenly buttered and browned. Drain them before the fire on another baking-tin, arranging the almonds on a piece of thick paper. Dust them over with fine salt when dry. Or, if they are to be devilled, shake Nepaul pepper over them. Tomato Saucers.—Choose large Tomatoes and cut off the top of each. Remove the seeds, and some of the pulp, leaving a good thickness of it for the sides of the saucer. Fill the cavity with cold boiled peas, cover the peas with a few shreds of lettuce, and lay a tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise sauce on the top. Serve ice cold.521 CHEESE. The multitude of new Savouries now in vogue have driven the good old-fashioned dishes of Cheese from most English dinner-tables, and to like them is often considered an infallible sign of a coarse taste and a vulgar mind. Some persons, however, still have the courage to enjoy Cheese, and for their benefit these recipes are given. The real Welsh Rarebit (often miscalled Welsh Rabbit) was a toasted Cheese peculiar to Wales, and made of a mixture of sheep and cow’s milk. It had a particularly mild flavour. The best toasting Cheese now is made at Legh (pronounced Leek) in Lancashire. Any sound mild Cheese will do for toasting, provided that it is sufficiently moist to slice without crumbling. By far the best plan is to use a cheese toaster, which is like a little Dutch oven with a screen and a tin for boiling water, and to toast the Cheese before the dining-room fire. Fill the tin with boiling water, melt a very little butter on the surface, and lay on that the Cheese cut into very thin slices. Watch it, and the moment the Cheese has melted put the toaster on the table with two toast-racks of hot dry toast. Some people like the toast dry, others prefer it soaked in a special Cup. Cup for Toasted Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—To make one quart. Grate a little nutmeg and ginger, and put them into an old china quart mug. Then add a little moist sugar, three glasses of white wine, and fill up the mug with equal quantities of small beer and ale—made hot. Serve in the mug on the table, and hand ale glasses filled with the Cup. Welsh Rarebit .—Make a slice of crisp, dry toast, less than a quarter of an inch thick and a little wider and longer than you wish the slice of Cheese to be. Butter it very sparingly, and lay it on a fire-proof dish before the fire to keep hot. Toast a slice of Cheese on both sides, but not enough to make it drip. Lay the Cheese on the hot toast, and serve at once. Aske Hall Toasted Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Cut half a pound of mild Cheese, Legh Cheese if possible, into very thin522 CHEESE slices. Pat it into a stewpan with lialf an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and season with a dust of nutmeg, a little white pepper, and a little cayenne. Stir it over the fire till the Cheese is well dissolved and quite smooth. Then stir in, off the fire, one whole egg. Serve at once in a dish with a lamp under it, and help the Cheese on to pieces of hot, dry toast. Or pour it into paper cases. Brown the surface with the salamander. Cheese Toast, Indian Fashion, —Grate two ounces of mild, dry Cheese, mix with it an ounce of butter, a dessert- spoonful of made mustard, a half saltspoonful of salt, the same of Nepaul pepper, and a well-beaten egg. Mix well in a basin and stir till it is smooth. If not as stiff as thick batter add a little more grated Cheese. Toast two slices of bread, butter them on both sides, lay them in a buttered fire-proof dish, spread the Cheese thickly over them, and bake for eight or ten minutes. Stewed Cheese Toast.—Make a roux in a saucepan of a quarter of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, stir it over a moderate fire, pour in by degrees half a pint of milk, and add enough grated dry Cheese to make the mixture like thick custard. Stir in the yolk of an egg, off the fire, and pour the Cheese over the hot toasts. Ramequins en Caisses.—Take two ounces of mild grated cheese and the same quantity of white breadcrumbs. Soak the crumbs in milk, and pound them in a mortar with the cheese and half an ounce of butter till the whole is well mixed. Season with pepper and salt, adding a teaspoonful of mustard powder and the yolks of three eggs. Finally, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the rest, and fill paper cases which have been well buttered outside and inside. Bake for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve as soon as the Ramequins have raised their heads and have slightly taken colour. [Wyvern.~\ China cases are apt to chill the cheese, but they are more convenient than paper. Cheese Biscuits.—Take equal quantities of grated cheese, butter, and flour, season well with cayenne pepper, and mix to a smooth paste. Cut it into small round biscuits, and bake a golden colour.523 CHEESE BISCUITS Any of the Cheese Toasts given are suitable for filling the little cheese pastry saucers given at page 517. Never use much salt in cooking Cheese ; it is generally salt enough. For Cheese Straws, and Macaroni and Cheese see Chapters XVII and XII. Cheese to be Served Cold.—Mock Crab.—This is an American dish, and is supposed to taste like devilled crab. In America it is served in a crab-shell, but scallop-shells are more suitable. Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to a paste with a tablespoonful of salad oil, work in first a teaspoonful of salt, then the same of cayenne pepper, then a dessertspoonful of made mustard. Now add four ounces of grated cheese, and work all well together. A little cold minced chicken or cooked white fish is an improvement. Finally add a dessertspoonful of anchovy vinegar. Hand water biscuits and butter. A second yolk of egg and a little more oil may be added. This American dish looks well served in a large shallow china saucer or shallow round dish, garnished with hard-boiled eggs and cress. Parmesan Cheese Pyramids.—(Family Becipe.)—Rub two ounces of butter into two ounces of flour, then mix in two ounces of grated Parmesan Cheese. Season with a dust of salt and a little cayenne, and work the whole to a light paste with a little water. Roll the paste out very thin, cut it into squares or rounds, and bake in a quick oven. When baked let the biscuits get cold. Season some thick cream with a dust of salt and a saltspoonful of cayenne. Whip it and when stiff mix in two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan. When ready pile the cream high on each biscuit, and dish on a napkin. Cremes de Fromagfe.—Make half a pint of custard with three whole eggs, stir in half an ounce of soaked gelatine. When dissolved cool and whip, adding two ounces of grated Parmesan and a gill of whipped cream, with one tablespoonful of chopped ham and one of chopped cooked macaroni. Fill little darioles with the mixture, set them on ice or in a cold place. Turn out when firm, and garnish with broken aspic. Mayonnaise sauce may be handed. [ Wyvern.) Cream Cheese.—(Family Becipe.)—Take a quart of thick cream, put it into a napkin rinsed out in cold spring water, and spinnkle a little salt over it. Tie it up as tight as possible, andCHEESE 524 hang it up in the dairy. It may he eaten in twenty-four hours. The napkin must be changed night and morning for a fresh one wrung out in cold water. When the cheese comes out of the dining-room it must be put in a clean napkin as before and kept in the dairy. Cream Cheese.—Take a small table-napkin, dip it in boil- ing water, squeeze it, and lay it inside a sieve (the size of the sieve depends on the quantity of cream), put a little salt to the cream, and pour it in not more than two inches deep (less will do). Set the sieve upon a plate, and lay a cover over it to keep off the dust. Change the plate beneath the sieve every day. The Cheese will be ready in a week or a fortnight, according to the weather. It is worth while to do this with even so little as a teacupful of cream which will not keep for other purposes, and cream which has begun to get a little sour is equally good for the purpose. Cream Cheese Like the Grewelthorp. — (.Family Recipe.)—(Grewelthorp is a village near ftipon. in the West Riding of Yorkshire, celebrated for the cream cheeses made there.) Take one quart of new milk, and put it in a warm place to stand twenty-four hours. Put in a little salt, stir it well, and hang the cheese up in a cloth to drain. If a richer Cheese is wanted put in half a pint of cream. Cream Curds.—(Family Recipe.)—To a quart of new milk put four beaten eggs and a little salt. Put it in a covered pitcher and set it in a pan of water over the fire. Do not stir it. When it is cracked lay it upon a sieve to drain, and put it by spoonfuls on the dish. Devonshire Cream.—Let the milk stand twenty-four hours. Then put it in a pan over a low fire, or set the pan in boiling water. The milk must be thoroughly heated, but on no account boil. When you can see a ring form in the cream the size of the bottom of the pan carry the pan into the dairy. The milk will have been scalded, and should be skimmed next day. In summer let the milk stand only sixteen hours.525 CHAPTER XX. BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES Xo Bread can ever equal the old-fashioned household bread made with brewers’ yeast, and baked in a brick oven heated by faggots of wood. But brick ovens for oi'dinary use, and the brewers’ yeast of old days, are things of the past. Modern methods of brewing have substituted so many ingredients for the simple malt and hops of old days that brewers’ yeast is now too bitter to use for bread. As a substitute for a bi'ick oven I can recommend pans made of the same material as red flower-pots. They can be ordered at axxy lai’ge potteiy where common flower-pots are made, such as Messrs. Sankey’s, at Bulwell, near Nottingham. A convenient size to order is eight inches long, four wide, and four to five inches deep. Fresh German yeast is quite satisfactory, and never has a bitter taste. German yeast looks like firm putty-coloured paste; the inside ought to be rather moist, and should smell like new bread. It is a good plan to drop it into an uncovered jug of cold water, allowing a pint of water to an ounce of yeast. This keeps it fresh, and makes the yeast-plant grow more readily when it is wanted. One ounce of German yeast (or one pennyworth) is enough to make three pounds and a half of flour into bread; indeed many practised hands use less. Baking-powder should never be used for bread. Flour should be ground three months befoi'e it is used, or the bread will be lumpy and heavy. It must be kept perfectly diy, or it will acquire a most unpleasant musty flavour whiclx no process can remove. The following table will be found use-526 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES fal: A pint of Flour weighs fourteen ounces. A quart (or half- quartern) weighs one pound and three-quarters, and will make a loaf weighing two pounds and three ounces. A quartern (or quarter of a stone, or half-gallon) weighs three pounds and a half, and will make a quartern loaf weighing four pounds and six ounces. A gallon (or half-stone) weighs seven pounds, and makes eight pounds and three-quarters of bread. A stone (or peck) weighs fourteen pounds, and makes seventeen pounds and a half of bread. Two pecks are equal to half a bushel; a bushel contains fifty-six pounds of flour, and makes seventy pounds of bread. A sack of flour contains five bushels. Fifty- four pounds of bread baked at home is an ample weekly allowance for eight persons. Everything used in making bread must be scrupulously fresh and clean. If the dough is left half-made or allowed to get cold the hread will be spoilt. To make a quartern of flour into two loaves, each weighin-g nearly two pounds and a quarter : Put the flour into a deep earthenware pan which is perfectly dry and free from dust, and deep enough to be not much more than half filled by the quantity of flour. This will give room for kneading, and will allow for the rising of the dough. Take a strong wooden spoon and make a hollow in the middle of the flour, but do not go down to the bottom or the sponge (that is, the thin batter in which the yeast grows) will stick to the bottom of the pan. Put the German yeast into a large basin, and mix it to a smooth cream, adding by degrees a dessert- spoonful of fine salt, and a pint of water. The temperature of the water must be settled by adding one part of boiling water to two parts of cold. A little milk is often considered to improve the bread; this also must be lukewarm. Add the liquid to the yeast by degrees, stirring till perfectly mixed. If you neglect this the bread will be full of large holes. Pour the yeast into the hole in the flour, and stir into it as much of the flour lying round as will make a pool of batter as thick as cream. If there are any lumps beat them out with the wooden spoon. Strew plenty of the flour on the pool, throw a thick clean cloth over the pan, and set it on a chair so that it is raised from the floor. Put it in a warm place, out of the draught,BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 527 but not in front of the fire. The yeast-plant requires gentle warmth to make it grow, but heat kills it at once. Look at the sponge from time to time ; probably in half an hour it will be seen to ferment—that is, the yeast will have broken through the flour in its growth and given off large bubbles of the carbonic acid gas, which has the effect of lightening the bread. When this is the case the sponge is ready to be made up into dough. Put the pan on a table of convenient height for you to knead. Pour into the sponge a little more lukewarm water, or milk and water, probably half a pint. Do not make the dough too moist. Stir in as much of the flour as you can with the spoon. Then take plenty of the remaining flour, throw it on the top of the sponge, and knead it steadily and firmly with the knuckles of both hands. Do not work quickly, but steadily. Keep throwing up the flour which lies under and over the dough on to the top. When it ceases to stick to the pan or to your hands it will be sufficiently kneaded. When the flour is nearly all kneaded into the dough begin to draw the edges towards the middle, in order to mix the whole thoroughly, and go on kneading it all over with your knuckles, pressing them well into and over the dough, and turning it constantly from one side of the pan to the middle. It is impossible to say exactly how long the kneading will take ; probably half an hour. When all the flour is worked in, and the outside of the dough is clear from the pan, and free from any lumps, cover the pan with the cloth, and leave it to rise, putting it, as before, in a warm, but not a hot, place. Look at it in three-quarters of an hour. If the dough has swollen to nearly twice its original size, and if it has begun to crack, it will be fit to bake. Set it on a pastry board, and with a large sharp knife divide the dough in half. It ought to be full of little holes like a sponge. Dust a little flour on the pastry board, and shape the loaves by working the two pieces of dough quickly between your hands without raising the dough from the board. Press the dough slightly as you work it. Hold each loaf in your left hand, and draw the edge of a knife just round the middle of the dough without cutting deep into it. Make a criss-cross cut or two over the top, as the loaves will x'ise the better for it. Make up the dough into loaves as lightly528 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES as possible. The oven must be hot at first, so as to kill the yeast-plant. Let the heat decrease gradually, so as to bake the bread all through evenly, not having a hard crust outside and spongy dough inside. If the oven is not hot the loaves will continue to rise, or to “ prove,” as bakers call it, long after they ought to have begun to bake. The time for a quai-tern loaf to bake is from an hour and a half to two hours. If the quartern of flour is divided into two loaves, allow an hour to an hour and a quarter. When a loaf is sufficiently baked it will ring hollow if you knock the bottom cmst with your knuckles. To quote the words of an expert in bread-making: “ G-ood bread will feel light when lifted in the hand. Good “ bread when cut will resemble a fine sponge of uniform “ texture, and be equally free from the spaces caused by large “ air-bubbles and from those dark streaks which show that the “ sponge was ill-prepared, or the dough too heavily kneaded “when finally made up for the oven. Loaves of well-made “ and well-baked bread will retain their shape ; they will be “ equally browned, and the crust will be firm and crisp, -without “ being thick and hard. Loaves which have been carelessly “ baked are sometimes burned in one part, whilst the dough is “scarcely set in another.” All bread should be turned on its side as soon as it is taken out of the oven. If this is not done the under part of the loaves will become wet and blistered, because the steam cannot escape. The bread should be left to get quite cold befoi-e it is put away in the bread-pan. Keep the bread-pan covered, and scald it out frequently, being careful to wipe it dry. Bread which has been cut should be kept in a different pan. Bread-pans ought to be raised a little from the floor by blocks of wood, so as to allow the ah’ to circulate under them. In taking off the cover of the bread- pan be sure not to put it down with a bang. This is the cause of the constant bi’eakages in the covei’S of bread-pans. The loaves moulded as described above ai'e called Batch loaves. To mould a Cottage loaf, divide the dough into two pieces, one not quite a quarter the size of the other. Make each into a ball, di’awing the edges undei’neath. Set the little ball on the larger one, flour the handle of the wooden spoon, and stick it sti’aight down through the middle of the loaf. If529 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES crusty bread is liked, gash the edges and top of the loaf here and there with a knife. The earthenware pans I recommend must be rubbed with a very little butter, to prevent the bread from sticking to them. In the same way if tins are used for baking they must be lightly buttered. For a tinned loaf only fill the tin half full, and bake as soon as the dough has risen to the top of the tin. Sir Henry Thompson’s Bread.—Sir Henry Thompson has long advocated the use of whole wheat meal—that is the entire grain of the wheat without the removal of any portion of the husk. It should not, however, be too coarsely ground ; the best size is when the meal will pass through an eighteen-inch wire sieve. Sir Henry Thompson adds butter and milk to his bread, in order to supply the fatty matter in which wheat is somewhat deficient, and he maintains that a more nutritive form of bread than his cannot be made. It cannot, however, be made up into loaves, as the whole meal is a bad conductor of heat, and the outside of a loaf made of it would be as hard as flint if the inside were “ set.” Whole meal bread must therefore be made into flat cakes not thicker than half an inch, and seven or eight inches in diameter, and baked in rings or hoops. Either yeast or baking-powder can be used. For whole meal bread made with baking powder : Take two pounds of coarsely-ground whole wheat meal, and add half a pound of fine flour, or, better still, the same weight or more if preferred of fine Scotch oat- meal. Mix thoroughly with a sufficient quantity of baking- powder and a little salt; * then rub in two ounces of butter and make into dough — using a wooden spoon — with cold skimmed milk or milk and water; soft in consistence, so that it can almost be poured into the tin ring which gives it form when baked. Set the rings on a tin and put them without delay into a quick oven at the outset, letting them be finished thoroughly at a lower temperature. If the bread is made with yeast, which, as Sir Henry Thompson says, is preferable for general purposes, the milk and water must be used warm, and the cakes set near the fire to rise for about an hour. Bake in a medium oven. Medium coarse oatmeal may be used in this * Half an ounce of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt to every pound of meal. M MBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 53° case instead of tlie fine oatmeal which is necessary with baking- powder. [Food and Feeding, page 42.] One of the best London bakers, who is in the habit of sup- plying Sir Henry Thompson’s Bread, kindly gave me his recipe for making it, which I have found most useful. Six pounds whole meal, a pound and a half fine oatmeal, three quarts water, four ounces yeast, six ounces butter. Prove twenty minutes. Put into hoops. Prove again twenty minutes. Good sound heat. (Of course all these quantities can be reduced in proportion.) There is no better baking-powder than Sir Henry Thompson’s, which can be made up by any chemist. Take two ounces of tartaric acid, three ounces of bicarbonate of soda, and three ounces of arrowroot. Mix well, place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep perfectly dry. The arrowroot has not the sweet taste of the ground rice so often used in baking- powders. It is the combination of the tartaric acid and the alkali of the soda which makes bubbles of carbonic acid gas similar in effect to those produced by the fermentation of the yeast-plant. Bread. Chips.—Cut thin shavings of bread from a stale loaf, lay them singly on a wire drainer in an extremely gentle oven till they are perfectly crisp. They should be a pale straw colour. The Chips will take quite half an hour to dry in the oven. Let them cool gradually, and serve piled on a napkin as soon as they are cold. The Chips can always be crisped again by re-heating. They will keep for a day or two in a biscuit-tin. Pulled Bread.—Take a small half-baked loaf from the oven, tear it with two steel forks into small rough bits, lay these on a baking sheet in the oven for ten minutes. If a light loaf is made on purpose with two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter, and a pint of milk the Pulled Bread will be almost equal to rusks. Sir Henry Thompson’s Dry Toast.—Cut stale bread in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, and toast them patiently at some little distance from a clear fire till slightly coloured on both sides. Then pass a sharp knife horizontally through the softish centre part, making two pieces of each slice. Now toast the inner sides as before. This toast is crisp, not scorched outside andSIR HENRY THOMPSON’S DRY TOAST. 53i flabby inside, as toast is when put close to the fire according to the general custom. The bread for toast ought to be two days old. Buttered Toast.—Cut the slices half an inch thick, and toast rather more quickly than for dry toast. Spread the butter on quickly, being careful not to scrape the toast. Or melt the butter in a soup-plate over hot water and spread it with a brush. Never set a lump of butter on the toast and let it stand in the oven to melt, according to a lazy fashion which is only too common. Cut each slice into four, and serve in a hot-water dish. Brown bread toast should be cut thicker than white. Castle Howard Rolls.—(Family Recipe.)—Rub half a pound of butter into three pounds of flour, take three spoonfuls of yeast (or an ounce of Herman yeast), the yolks of two eggs, and as much milk as will wet the flour. Work the eggs and yeast into the flour with the milk just warm. Make the rolls of a middling size, and set them before the fire to rise. When risen, make the dough into little rolls, and put them on tins before the fire for a minute or two before you put them into the oven. The oven should be very hot and close. Twenty minutes will bake them. Hot Rolls.—For eight rolls of an ounce and a half each take eight ounces of fine flour, a quarter of an ounce of Yeatman’s baking powder, a saltspoonful of salt, and half an ounce of butter. Spread the flour in an enamelled pan, sprinkle the baking powder and salt over its surface, mix well, then rub the butter into it. Now begin to moisten by degrees with milk or buttermilk, working the dough with two wooden spoons. Nine tablespoonfuls of milk ought to be enough. When ready turn the dough out on a floured pastry-board, divide it into eight equal portions, pat them into a round shape with the spoons, and put them into eight buttered patty-pans on a baking sheet. Brush over the surfaces of the rolls with milk, and slip them into rather a brisk oven. In from twelve to fifteen minutes the rolls will have risen and taken a pale brown colour. Turn them out of the patty-pans, and serve in a hot napkin. [Wyvern.~\ French Rolls.—For six French Rolls exactly double the quantities given in the recipe for Hot Rolls, and add a well- M M 253^ BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES beaten egg. Add the egg when you begin to moisten, and use enough milk to make a firm dough. When smooth, divide the dough on the pastry-board into six equal parts, pat them into elongated ovals, lay them in well-buttered French-roll tins, brush them over with milk, and bake like Hot Rolls. [ Wyvem.) French Rolls used to be rasped all over the crust with a special rasper, but it made the crust hard. The brushing over with milk keeps it soft. Vienna Rolls.—Work the dough as for French rolls, but after dividing it roll it into sausage shapes an inch and a half thick in the centre, and tapering somewhat towards the ends. Curve each into the shape of a crescent, and proceed as before, only laying the crescents on a buttered baking-tin instead of using patty-pans or French-roll tins. \Wyvern.~\ Brown Rolls.—Proceed as for Hot Rolls, only substituting whole meal for fine flour. Wheat Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Melt a little butter in a pint of good milk made a little warmer than new milk. Beat up the whites of three eggs, add them to the milk when you take it off the fire, and mix in flour by degrees till the sponge is of a proper thickness. Then add a little salt and half an ounce of yeast. Put the dough into a jug to rise. Breakfast Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—One pound of flour, one egg, two spoonfuls of yeast (or half an ounce of German yeast) and a little salt, all mixed with good milk. Make this quantity into six cakes. Roll out thinly, prick them all over, and let them stand for one hour before the fire that they may rise well. Five minutes will bake them. Cut them round the sides, pull them open, and butter them. Eaton Banks Breakfast Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Take twelve tablespoonfuls of fine flour, two ounces of butter melted in milk, a spoonful of yeast (or a quarter of an ounce of German yeast), and an egg. Mix together, and let the sponge stand two hours. Then make it into cakes, and let them rise for a quarter of an hour before they are put into the oven. Muffins.—Sift together a pound of fine flour, an ounce of Yeatman’s powder, and two saltspoonfuls of salt. Stir in by degrees enough milk to form a smooth but rather stiff batter. Butter four Muffin rings, lay them on a buttered baking sheet533 MUFFINS well heated, half fill them with the batter, and set them to rise. When the batter has x'isen level with the top of the rings turn them gently and bake till a good straw colour. Take out the tin, turn out the Muffins, open them, toast slightly on the inside, butter them, fold the two pieces together again, and serve at once. About a pint of milk or a little more will be probably required to form the hatter. Time, about twenty-five minutes. [ Wyvern.) Muffins should be torn open with two forks, not cut. Crumpets.—Freshly-made Crumpets are much better than those bought cold and toasted afterwards. Thoroughly mix together twelve ounces of Vienna flour (that is, fine pastry flour), a small saltspoonful of salt, and three-quarters of an ounce of Teatman’s powder. Then stir in an ounce of butter melted, one egg well beaten, and enough milk to form a smooth hatter. With this half fill the Muffin rings, prepared as for Muffins, watch, and when the hatter rises somewhat, turn each crumpet once carefully, and finish baking. Toast lightly» butter, and serve. [Wyvern.) Scones.—Scones used to be baked, like girdle-cakes, on the “ girdle,” that is, a flat iron plate hung over the fire, from which they were taken by the “ spurtle ” or slice. But they can be quite as well made on an iron frying-pan set on the hot-plate, or, perhaps-rather less well, on a baking sheet in the oven. A round iron plate is easily made to use instead of the frying-pan, and it should have a loop at one side by which it can be held. A good bottom heat is needed for Scones. Scotch Scones.—Take equal quantities of flour, butter, and milk, mix all very thoroughly together, roll it out thin, cut it into rounds with a tumbler, and bake on the girdle for fifteen or twenty minutes. Water Scones.—These are quite limp. Knead the flour into a paste with boiling water, using wooden spoons, and working the paste till it is perfectly smooth. Roll out a quarter of an inch thick, cut out, and bake on the girdle. As soon as one side of each scone has set turn it, and bake the other side. Time, about five minutes. Serve in a hot napkin. Cream Scones.—Use either brown or white flour. Heat half a pint of cream, and when it comes to the boil dredge in flour till the paste is rather thick. Stir it all the time, and add a little salt. Roll out, cut, and bake limp scones as befoi’e.BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 534 Crisp Scones.—Proceed as for Cream Scones, but bake till they are crisp. Do not let the girdle be too hot, or the scones will be too dark. They are made with brown flour. Never use baking-powder for Scones. If a few grains of salt crackle when thrown on the iron plate the heat will be right. Barley meal stirred into boiling milk till the paste is as thick as possible and then rolled out as thin as possible makes excellent Scones. In using barley meal do not let it be too long on the girdle, or the Scones will be tough. Bannocks are made like Scones, substituting oatmeal for flour. Allow three ounces of butter to a pound of oatmeal and make the dough with water. Bannocks, after coming off the girdle, should be toasted till crisp. In Scones, Bannocks, and Girdle cakes too much rolling is fatal, as it turns them into a sort of puff-paste. Yorkshire Girdle-Cake.—(Family Ptecipe.)—Set the girdle- plate over a clear fire, and be sure that it is hot before the paste is put upon it. Ascertain this by throwing a few grains of salt upon it; if they crackle it is the right heat. The paste is made of a small handful of flour mixed with thin cream and a very little salt. On no account use baking powder or soda; only flour and cream. If new milk has to be used or if the cream is too thin add a bit of butter the size of the tip of your thumb. When the paste is well mixed, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Flour the girdle, and lay the cake on it to bake. It requires pricking, and must be turned with a slice so as to bake both sides. It will take about twenty minutes to bake. If the cake is tough, the girdle has not been hot enough or the cream has been too poor. The Girdle cake should be divided into segments, or cut across into four parts. It must not be rich like pastry, and it should not be split. Cumberland Singing: Hinnie.—-Make a thick paste of flour and cream, or of flour and butter beaten to a cream. Moisten with a few drops of milk, and roll it out half an inch thick. Roll as lightly and quickly as possible, and not more than twice. Bake it on the girdle, turning it as soon as one side is done. Split it, butter it, and serve very hot. Irish Brown Fadg:e.—This is the breakfast cake or scone peculiar to Ireland. Take one pound of whole meal flour, just535 IRISH BROWN FADGE as it comes from the mill. Rub into it an ounce and a half of butter. Add a little salt. Make into a paste with about half a pint of milk. Roll the cake out the third of an inch thick, and bake on the girdle plate for twenty minutes, turning it once or twice. If rich buttermilk, with a pinch of soda Avell mixed into the meal, can be used, the butter would be omitted, and the Fadge will be infinitely better. Lancashire Clapped Bread.—Mix fine dry Scotch oatmeal with cold water and a pinch of salt into a moderately stiff paste. Pat it well with two wooden spoons with plenty of oatmeal strewed under and over it until it is as thin as it can be made. Each cake should be as large as a small plate, and each must be baked singly. The paste dries so rapidly that you must only moisten enough oatmeal for one cake at a time. Clapped Bread ought properly to be baked on an iron girdle plate hung over the fire, but a baking sheet will do, as bottom heat is required. Turn the cakes whilst they are baking, and afterwards toast them a little before the fire and make them crisp. They should be as dry as possible. If the oatmeal is mixed with warm water the Clapped Bread is more easily made, but it is not nearly so good. The clapping or patting makes it short, which is its distinctive feature. Use as little water as possible. Westmoreland Oat Cakes.—Take a quarter of a peck (3£ lbs.) of fine dry sifted oatmeal. Mix together one pint of warm water, half a tumblerful of mild ale yeast, and half an ounce of salt. (Or dissolve an ounce of German yeast in the warm water.) Stir the mixture well for ten minutes, strain it gradually into the oatmeal, and work it into a light dough. Cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise for one hour. Then roll it out quickly on a floured board with your hand, divide it into lumps the size of a small egg, and roll it with a rolling pin in plenty of flour till quite thin. Cover the oatcakes with flannel, set them on the board in a warm place, and when slightly risen bake them on a hot baking sheet. Then toast them crisp on both sides without burning, tear them apart with two forks, butter the inside, put the oatcakes together again, and serve hot. These oatcakes should be very crisp and short, and success depends on quickness and lightness in the kneading.BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 536 Oat Cakes for Breakfast.—Take one pound of oatmeal, coarse or fine, rub into it two ounces of butter with a small tea- spoonful of salt, and then moisten with sufficient water to make a smooth dough. Pat this into a round mass and lay it upon a floured board, roll it out not less than a quarter of an inch thick. Cut this into three and a half inch squares, halve these by cutting them across from corner to corner, forming triangular shapes, and bake on a heated iron frying-pan on the hot-plate, turning them till firm and thoroughly done. Dust over with sifted meal, and serve in a hot napkin. [WyvemJ] BISCUITS. Water Biscuits.—(Family Recipe.)—One pound of flour and two ounces of butter well rubbed together. Add a pinch of salt. Mix them with cold water to a very stiff paste, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Break off the paste in pieces the size of a walnut, and roll out round. Prick each biscuit with a biscuit pricker. It is important to put the biscuits on a hot baking sheet and to bake them in a very hot oven. Water Biscuits (2).—Rub an ounce of butter into a handful of fine flour. Make it into a stiff smooth paste with Avarm milk and the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Beat the paste with a rolling-pin for half an hour or longer (the goodness of the biscuits depends on the length of time that they are beaten). Take small pieces of the paste and roll them out to the size of a saucer. They must be so thin that when held to the light they can be seen through ; in fact they cannot be too thin. Bake the biscuits very lightly. Passover Biscuits.—(Family Recipe.)—This recipe was given by a JeAArish baker. One pound of Vienna flour makes fourteen biscuits, each the size of a plate. Mix up stiff with a little cream and add a little salt. Bake for five minutes or so on a girdle. Roll out the paste as thin as writing-paper. Turn the biscuits Avhen they begin to blister on one side, and bake a nice broAvn. The biscuits should be covered with large blisters. Fluted Biscuits.—(Family Recipe.)—Melt two ounces of butter, add enough cold milk to mix one pound of flour. Add a537 FLUTED BISCUITS little salt, and roll out as thin as possible. Prick the biscuits well, cut them into narrow oblong shapes with a fluted cutter, and bake a nice brown. CAKES. Cakes.—All flour for Cakes should be what is called Pastry or Vienna flour. When much butter is used it cannot be rubbed into the flour, and has to be “ creamed.” This is done by beating the butter in a basin with a wooden spoon till it is like cream. The sugar should then be added, and the two beaten together for at least ten minutes. If this is not done there will be heavy streaks in the cakes, a sure sign of idle and insufficient beating. Beating is specially important in such cakes as Pound Cakes. Baking powder and fruit must be stirred in last of all, just before the cake is baked; if this is not done the baking powder will have lost its effervescing power, and will be of no use. When ready the mixture should be just soft enough to be poured into the tin. Tins are frequently buttered, but for any rich cakes they ought to be papered. To do this reverse the tin, and put a layer of two or three pieces of buttered foolscap at the bottom. Cut them to the proper size, and press the buttered paper well down on the bottom of the tin. Cut a band of buttered paper to fit the inside of the tin, and cut it high enough to project two inches above the top. Fit it carefully into the tin, so that the cake mixture cannot break through. The mixture when poured into the tin should fill it only two-thirds. Put the tin in the hottest part of the oven first to make the cake rise, and then draw it to a cooler part and let it bake more slowly. Rich cakes require a more moderate oven than plain cakes, and any kind of gingerbread (except the special Nuts for which a recipe is given) requires a very slow oven, or it will burn. Delicately coloured cakes, like Sponge Cake, should be protected by a buttered paper over the top as soon as they have risen. The time of baking is generally about three-quarters of an hour. If a bright skewer run into the middle of the cake comes out bright and not dimmed, the cake will be baked. Let the cake rest for a minute or two after leaving the oven, as it shrinks a little in cooling, and is more538 CAKES easily turned out of the tin. Then run a knife round the bottom of the cake, invert the mould on the wire drainer, after gently tapping it, and draw the mould off the cake, being most careful not to break the crust. Let the cake stay on the drainer in a warm place till it is quite set, for if it is put into a cold larder at this stage it will become heavy. Cake for Luncheon.—(Family Recipe.)—Take one pound of light dough when you are baking bread. Well work together four ounces of butter, the same of currants, a little chopped lemon peel, nutmeg, and moist sugar, and one whole egg. Bake in a well-buttered mould for one hour in a moderate oven. Buns.—(Family Recipe, 1835.)—Two pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a tablespoonful of yeast, mixed with a full gill of new milk, four eggs well beaten and mixed, six ounces of sifted sugar, one ounce of carraway seeds (if liked), and a quarter of a pound of currants. When well risen put it with a spoon into little tins to bake. Aunty’S Buns.—(Family Recipe.)—Bub half a pound of fresh butter into two pounds of flour, add a little salt. Mix it with a little warm milk and yeast. Let it stand to rise. Then add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of currants washed and picked, and some chopped citron and candied peel. Beat up three fresh eggs well with as much tepid milk as will make it the thickness of a plum pudding. Mix all together and let it rise again before baking. Use oval fluted tins well buttered, and bake a good brown. Water Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Take the best flour mixed rather stiff with skim milk. Bake on the shelf of the oven and turn the cakes. Everything is in the baking, and the oven must be a moderate heat. Lady Feversham’s Rusks.—(Family Recipe.)—Fourpounds of flour, a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter melted in the milk, half a pint of yeast (or an ounce of German yeast), four eggs (some leave out one yolk), a dessertspoonful of sugar, and a saltspoonful of salt. Make your paste, and let it stand one hour by the fire. Then make it into small rolls, and bake one hour in a quick oven. Take them out and cut them through the middle. Lay them on tins, and let them stand in the oven four hours. You must keep them in tins. Rub the butter well into the flour the first time.539 SALLY LUNN’S BATH CAKE Sally Lunn’s Bath Cake,—(Family Recipe, brought from Bath.)—Sally Lunn was a pastrycook at Bath early in this cen- tury, whose name is always associated with the tea-cakes for which she was famous. One pound finest flour, three eggs, leaving out one white. Beat the eggs well together, strain them, whisk well. Then mix together a pint of good cream and three large spoonfuls of good small-beer yeast (it would now be an ounce of German yeast). Warm a little of it to wet the flour lightly, then mix the rest with a quick, light hand, and add a little salt. Knead well and set it before the fire to rise until it is very light. Then mould it again to make it into a cake, put it into a slow oven, and fifteen minutes will bake it. Open the cake whilst hot and butter it. Let the butter be warmed a little before the fire before you put it in. Sally Lunn’s Smaller Bath Cakes.—(Family Recipe, brought from Bath.)—One pint of flour, that is, fourteen ounces, the yolks of two eggs, a large spoonful of yeast (now not quite half an ounce of German yeast), a little salt, and as much warm milk with a little butter melted in it as will make it of a proper thickness. Let it stand one hour by the fire to rise. Then roll it into cakes about three inches thick, or thinner if you please. Bake as the other. Modern Sally Lunn.—Six ounces of flour, a quarter of an ounce of German yeast, two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, all worked together for a few minutes till it is a light dough. Or rub two ounces of butter into a pound of flour with half an ounce of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt. Make into dough by first mixing in two well-beaten eggs, and then milk enough to make it a thick batter. Pour into hot buttered muffin rings two and a half inches deep, but only fill them half full. Set them to rise by the fire on a baking tin; when well risen brush over the surfaces with a little milk, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Cut in four, toast, butter, and serve at once. Sally Lunns should never be sweetened. If a sweetened tea-cake is wished for, add half to three-quarters of an ounce of castor sugar to the above recipe. Pound Cake.—(.Family Recipe.)—A pound of flour rubbed through a hair sieve, but not dried, half a pound of sugar, aCAKES 54° pound of currants, three-quarters of a pound of butter. Beat the butter to a cream. Eight eggs well beaten, the yolks and whites separately, but leaving out three of the yolks. Add candied peel, mace if liked, and a tablespoonful of brandy. First put the sugar to the butter, then the eggs, then the flour, and the currants last of all. Put the cake in a pound tin, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and half. Beat most thoroughly. Sigston Gingerbread Loaf. — (Family Iiedpe.) — Two pounds of brown flour, two pounds of treacle, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, a breakfastcupful of good cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, two ounces and a half of ground ginger, and citron if liked. Mis all well together, and bake in a moderately hot oven. (The above quantities seem large, but the longer the loaf lasts after it is cut the better it is.) Plum Loaf-—(Family Recipe.)—Three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a pound and a quarter of sultanas, and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Mis all very lightly up together. Sponge Cake.—(Family Recipe.)—Break seven eggs one by one into a teacup, so as to be sure they are fresh. Remove the germ of each egg, and keep the whites from the yolks. Beat the whites to a froth, then add to them three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar with the rind of a lemon grated into it. Mis it well, beat the yolks of the eggs till they are smooth, squeeze in the juice of half the lemon, and just before you pour the cake into the mould stir in three-quarters of a pound of fine flour which has been kept warm. The mould must have been well buttered, and the cake misture ought not to fill it above half full. Bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Seed Cake.—This can be made like Sponge cake, adding half an ounce of carraway seeds. But carraways, which are the dried seeds of the tall parsley of Caria in Asia Minor, are so absolutely indigestible that if the flavour is desired a little of the essence should be used instead. Mrs. Earle’S Cakes.—Take three eggs, put them in the scales and weigh against them three equal parts of flour, sugar, and butter. Then break the eggs, put the yolks into a basin, meltMRS. EARLE’S CAKES 54i the butter, add the flour and sugar, and mix the whole. At the last moment add the whites of the eggs, beat slightly, and put it into the oven in a round flat tin with a thin rim. Serve on a large round plate. No. 2.—Take the weight in flour of four eggs ; butter, sugar, rind of lemon grated, a few sultanas and citron. Beat to a cream. Then add the yolk of each egg, one by one, then the flour, and beat the whites of the eggs to a froth just before putting it in the oven. Bake for half an hour in a flat tin dish. Queen Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—A pound of sugar beat and sifted, a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of currants well cleaned, a nutmeg grated, and the same quantity as that of mace and cinnamon. Work the butter to a cream, then put in the sugar. Beat the whites of the eggs nearly half an hour, then mix them with the butter and sugar; beat the yolks of the eggs the same, and mix them. Beat these ingredients extremely well together, then add the flour, spices, and currants. Bake them twenty minutes in small tins. Dust a little sugar over the tops. The oven should be moderate. The eggs should be beaten by two people, as the whites must not be kept waiting. Add the flour and currants gradually. Thin shreds of candied peel and a spoonful of brandy are im- provements. Soda Cake.—{Family Recipe.)—Rub into one pound of flour one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, six ounces of butter, six ounces of loaf sugar, six ounces of raisins, and three beaten eggs, leaving out one white. Mix it up into a stiff paste with nearly half a pint of lukewarm milk. Flavour it with lemon peel grated very fine, and put it into the oven immediately. If the quantities are not exact the cake fails. Iced Rolls.—{Family Recipe.)—A quarter of a pound of fine flour, two ounces of butter, one ounce of sifted sugar. Rub all well together and make into a paste with the yolk of an egg and a little cold water. Work it well with your hands for one minute, and roll it out. Line small tins with this paste, put a bit of foolscap in each, put a lid on, and bake in a quick oven. When taken out turn them bottom up. When cold cut a hole the size of a sixpence and take the paper out. Then beat the whites of542 CAKES two eggs to a strong froth, cover the rolls all over, dust them well with sifted sugar, and put them in a cool oven to brown. When to be served fill the rolls with good custard, and lay two or three dried cherries on each. Six for a dish at dessert. Fat Rascals.—Rub half a pound of butter into three-quarters of a pound of flour. Then add half a pound of raisins, and mix all to a stiff paste with a little milk. Roll out, and bake on the girdle till nicely browned, turning it once only. When baked cut the cake into squares, butter well, and serve at once. Petticoat Tails.—This cake is a great favourite in Scotland; the name is merely a corruption of petits gateaux tailles. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, soften it before the fire, and mix it well with two ounces of castor sugar. Work into it half a pound of flour. Make it up into a ball and roll out the size of a dinner plate. Raise the edge a little all round like a saucer and mark the edge with strokes, using the quill end of a feather. Mark a circle in the middle of the cake with a wine-glass, and with the feather mark eight divisions radiating from the centre. Bake on the girdle. When served cut the cake according to the divisions marked out. Gingerbread.—(Family Recipe.)—One pound two ounces of treacle, near a pound of brown sugar, rather better than a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, and two ounces of grated ginger. When mixed together spread it with a knife on a perfectly clean dripping-pan and bake it in a moderate oven. Whilst it is hot cut it into pieces three inches square. Sledmere Sponge Gingerbread.—(Family Recipe.)—Kali a pound of butter, of sugar, and of treacle, a pound of flour, an ounce of ginger, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Put the butter, sugar, and treacle all together and set it by the fire to melt. Then beat four eggs, stir into them the butter, sugar, and treacle, then the ginger and soda, and lastly the flour. Do not bake it hard. Gingerbread Nuts to take out Hunting.—(Family Recipe.)—To one pound of fine flour put four ounces of fresh butter, and carefully rub it well into the flour. Then add two ounces of best freshly-powdered ginger, a quarter of an ounce of allspice in fine powder, a grated nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, half a pound of good moist sugar,GINGERBREAD NUTS TO TAKE OUT HUNTING 543 one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper and the same of powdered cardamoms. All these to be well mixed in one pound of fresh treacle, and after standing a short time to be cut into pieces, rolled into balls, pressed flat with the hands, then put on a buttered tin and baked in a hot oven. These Gingerbread Nuts were always taken out hunting by the three famous riders, of whom the Cheshire Hunting Song says: “ Were my life to depend on the wager I know not which brother I’d back, The Parson, the Squire, or the Major, The Purple, the Pink, or the Black ! ” (Of course, for ordinary Gingerbread Nuts the spices are omitted.) TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. It seems superfluous to give suggestions for the making of Tea in these days, when Tea has been a daily drink in England for more than a century. But too often it is, as I once heard an old lady exclaim at breakfast in a large country-house, “ Footman’s Tea ! Black as ink, and filled up from the boiler! ” Not one servant in twenty knows when water is really boiling ; they either pour it off at the first bubble (generally into a cold tea-pot), or they take it from the “washing-up kettle,” which has been simmering on the hob for the last hour and a half. If the water has boiled a long time, or if it has boiled and cooled and been boiled up again, it is useless for anything but “washing-up.” Tea requires water which has been freshly drawn, brought up to boiling-point, and used when absolutely boiling. This is easily managed by using the locomotive kettle on the table, not on the fire. This kettle, which can be procured at 119 New Bond Street, is constructed on the principle of the boiler of a railway engine, and really does boil water in four minutes. It is provided with a wind-guard, so that it can be used for tea out of doors. Scald out the teapot with boiling water, pour it off at once, and make the tea. The old rule is a good one—one spoonful for each person and one for the pot. Do not lot the tea “ infuse ” more than five minutes after you have added the boiling water, or it will become Footman’s Tea, or will resemble the still more544 tea, coffee, cocoa, etc. dreadful decoction sanctioned by the Local Government Board for use in English Workhouses. In this case the allowance of tea is never more than two ounces to a gallon of water, and in many workhouses it is allowed to “draw” for an hour and a half in the coppers in order to get a colour. Sir Henry Thompson says, “Many of us might with “advantage avoid the sugar and the cream, which at afternoon “ tea interfere with the stomach far more than does the infusion “itself, and add in their place a delicate slice of lemon neither “thicker nor larger than a half-crown, the flavour of which “ fragrant peel and a hint of acid combines with the aroma of “ good tea without in the least disguising or flattening it as the “ conventional additions do. It would he almost as rational to “ add cream and sugar to wine as to fine and delicately flavoured “tea! Occasionally tea is served with lemon in this country, “ but it is mostly added in excess. A very slight shaving, which “ contains both peel and pulp, is ample for an ordinary cup.” [Food and Feeding, page 143.] Cold Tea.—This is most refreshing on a long railway journey, and is greatly appreciated by gentlemen out shooting. But it must be most carefully made. It is of no use to make an extra quantity of tea at breakfast and to fill bottles with what remains. Cream and sugar disguise the flat taste in carelessly - made hot tea, but cold tea, if drunk unsweetened as it should be, requires the greatest attention to avoid any such flavour. The Russian Caravan Tea, to be procured from the Russian Stores, Queen’s Road, Bayswater, should be used. It costs three-and- sixpence a pound, but it is far more refreshing and restorative than cheaper Tea. Have freshly-boiling water, allow a tumblerful to each teaspoonful of Russian Tea, let it stand for four minutes only, and then strain it into the bottles through a fine tin strainer. The wide-mouthed glass “ Climax ” bottles, with screw-tops, sold for jam are very convenient for cold tea, as they are strong and do not require corks. They are to be had from Sanderson and Young, 21 Red Lion Square, and should be kept for cold Tea. If old wine-bottles are used the flavour of the Tea will not be so good. Put a couple of lemons and a sharp clasp- knife in the basket with the Tea, and if sugar is insisted on put a few lumps in one of the little metal boxes sold for Tea baskets.COFFEE 545 Coffee.—The water used in making Coffee must be freshly boiling, and Coffee to be good must be freshly roasted, freshly ground, and freshly made. Mocha Coffee has by far the finest flavour, but, as coffee-dealers say, it has not much “ body,” and requires to be “ fortified ” with the stronger Plantation Coffee. A good proportion is three parts Mocha to one part Plantation, or half and half may be used. The two kinds must be roasted separately, as the berries are not the same size. Most English people dislike the French method of mixing chicory with Coffee in cafe au lait, although it is considered to make both the Coffee and the milk more wholesome. If chicory is used buy the best French ground chicory, and allow one teaspoonful of it to six tea- spoonfuls of Coffee and a pint of boiling water. The Demon invention mentioned on page 339 roasts Coffee admirably. In damp weather the berries should be warmed and dried a little in the oven before grinding them. The coffee-mill should be care- fully cleaned after using it, as even a very little stale ground Coffee left in it will make the next day’s Coffee flat and tasteless. The china percolators are much better than the old tin ones, for in those the lining rubbed off in time and spoilt the colour and flavour of the Coffee. They can be had in various sizes at 119 New Bond Street, or indeed wherever fire-proof china is sold, and the parts are sold separately in view of breakages by careless usage. I know no recipe for making Coffee so good or so clear as Wyvern’s. Get really good Coffee berries and be prepared to pay a good price for them. Roast them daily if you want well-flavoured Coffee. Half the Coffee we drink is spoilt by ignorant roasting ; a burnt berry will spoil the whole brew. The best way to roast the berries is to stir them about in a small saute-pan over a very low fire, doing them in relays and passing them straight to the hand-mill from the pan. A tablespoonful of berries will be found quite enough at a time. Melt a little butter, just sufficient to lubricate the berries, and stir them about till they turn a light Havannah brown. If a berry takes a darker tint throw it away at once as you would a reptile. Grind the berries at once and make the Coffee as soon afterwards as possible. In any circumstance keep the powder carefully secured from the air in a dry canister. The butter prevents the escape of much of the fragrance of the N NTEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. 546 berries whilst roasting, and becomes quite dried up before the roasting is finished. The custom in many kitchens is to bake, often to over-bake, the Coffee berries in the oven. The result is a leaden tinted liquid, acrid in flavour, and repulsive to look upon. The Coffee when properly ground should be rich in aroma, and of a beautiful rich snuff colour. Be liberal with the Coffee ; allow a tablespoonful for each person. This will make a coffee- cupful of cafe noir, and a breakfastcupful of cafe au lait. Heat the Coffee powder for a minute in the oven or in front of the fire. Scald out the percolator coffee-pot so as to heat it thoroughly. Fill the upper chamber of the percolator with as much hot Coffee powder as you require, and ram the powder down firmly. Having previously calculated the amount of Coffee liquid needed pour absolutely boiling water according to that measurement, by tea- spoonfuls at a time, through the upper strainer upon the powder. The slower the water is added the more thoroughly the Coffee will become soaked, and the dripping being retarded the essence will be as strong as possible. As soon as the Coffee has run through pour it into the cups. Let the coffee-pot stand in a shallow vessel containing boiling water during the process, for in this way the liquid can be kept hot without deterioration for some little time. It does not do to heat up cold Coffee. [Wyvem.] If Coffee is sent up in a silver coffee-pot scald it out twice with boiling water so as to ensure its being thoroughly hot. Heat the cups also. If Coffee has to wait keep the percolator in a pan of boiling water. The flavour of cafe au lait is much better when the boiling milk is poured into the cups before the Coffee. Viennese Coffee.—Make strong Coffee, sweeten it, and just as it is served lay a tablespoonful of stiffly-whipped cream on the top of the Coffee in each cup. Iced Coffee.—Make strong Coffee, add sugar and cold milk, put the Coffee into glass jugs, and set these in ice for at least two hours before the Coffee is wanted. Do not put little pieces of ice into the Coffee, as it spoils the flavour. Cocoa.—So many varieties of Cocoa have been introduced of late which, to judge by the advertisements, contain every form of nutriment except Cocoa, that a recipe for Cocoa, and nothing but Cocoa, may be useful. Cocoa-nibs are the seeds from the pods of the tree called Tlicobroma Cacao; the pods grow only on the547 COCOA stems and lower branches of the trees. The best Cocoa grows and is prepared in Trinidad, whence Cocoa-nibs are exported in enormous quantities, millions of pounds (weight) being sent from the island twice every year. It is curious that although Chocolate is manufactured from the same bean, and although both sugar and vanilla are largely grown in Trinidad, not a single ounce of Chocolate is manufactured in the island, the raw materials being- all sent over to France. Cocoa-nibs contain a great deal of fat, which has to be carefully removed, or the Cocoa will be greasy. Put a quarter of a pound of Cocoa-nibs into two quarts of cold water and simmer very gently for at least five hours. Strain the liquid and let it get cold. When quite cold remove every particle of fat from the surface, and gently warm up the Cocoa by degrees to boiling point. Chocolate.—Unsweetened Chocolate should be bought, as the cheaper kinds are loaded with sugar and even with flour. For French Chocolate break up a tablet of Chocolate into little bits for each breakfast cup. Melt it in either milk or water over a low fire. When melted stir with a wooden spoon and add half a pint of boiling milk, and let all boil for three minutes. Be sure to use an enamelled saucepan and a wooden spoon. For Spanish Chocolate, which is much thicker than the French kind, use a fire-proof casserole, large at the bottom and narrow at the top. Put into this six teacupfuls of milk and six tablets of Chocolate broken small. Put the casserole on a low fire, and stir with the boxwood moussoir used in Spain. If you have not a moussoir, use a large whisk. Whisk as usual till the Chocolate has melted in the milk. Then roll the moussoir (or whisk) round and round between the palms of the hands as quickly as possible. This makes the mousse which is the foundation of Spanish Chocolate. Let the Chocolate rise six times to the top of the casserole, then take it off the fire, pour it into the chocolate-pot, and mousser well till you pour the Chocolate into the cups. Chocolate is more like a nourishing soup, to those who can take it, than an infusion like tea or coffee. Oatmeal Porridge.—As a breakfast dish Oatmeal Porridge seems to find its place in this chapter. Once more, I follow Wyvern's method. Weigh a couple of ounces of oatmeal, put three-quarters of a pint of water in a saucepan, set it on the fire, N N 2TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. 54§ and bring it to the boil. Cast into it one pinch—that is, the eighth of an ounce—of salt, and then dredge in the oatmeal with one hand whilst you stir well with the other hand, using a wooden spoon. Let the porridge simmer for forty minutes, by which time the oatmeal should have absorbed the water and be swollen and soft. Send the porridge into the breakfast-room in its sauce- pan, set it over a lamp, stir in enough cold milk till air bubbles begin to rise on the surface, and then turn the porridge into very hot soup-plates. Hand salt only. Hot milk can be used if liked, but boiled and unboiled milk vary in taste. By Wyvem’s plan a properly hot porridge is certain in a couple of minutes. The proportions given will yield two large portions or three small portions. If the oatmeal absorbs the water too quickly in the cooking additional hot water should be stirred in. Some oat- meals are more floury than others, and as much as a pint of water may be needed for two ounces. \_Wyvern.'] A Scotch porridge-stick, for stirring Oatmeal Porridge, is like a thin rolling- pin. Hold the stick in your right hand and dredge the oatmeal in with your left hand. Add the oatmeal by degrees till the porridge is thick enough not to fly over the edge of the saucepan when stirred, and beat it well with the porridge-stick. Scotch people like milk and cream with porridge ; some even add ale and broAvn sugar. But Oatmeal Porridge when properly made is most wholesome if it is eaten only with salt.549 CHAPTER XXI. SOME FOREIGN RECIPES. [Inserted by Request.] Italian Chestnut Soup.—(Old Recipe.)—Mince finely two small onions, one carrot, two leeks, and a quarter of a stick of celery. Fry all brown in butter, season with salt, and stew in a quart of stock for one hour. Take three or four dozen chestnuts according to size, peel off the first shell, put them in a chestnut- pan, and stir them about till they are sufficiently cooked for the second shell to be removed. Stew them for half an hour in half the prepared liquor. Set apart the whole chestnuts to garnish the soup. Chop the remainder and strain through a sieve with the liquor they have been stewed in. Add the rest of the stock, simmer over a slow fire for six or seven minutes, place the whole chestnuts in the tureen and pour the soup over. Italian Chestnut Stew.—Mince finely two small onions and a sprig of rosemary, and fry them brown in butter. Add two pounds of meat or chicken or turkey cut into small pieces, half a pint of red Italian wine vinegar (this is often considered more delicate than French vinegar), a pint and a half of stock with three ounces of tomato conserve dissolved in it, and a pinch of salt. Stew over a slow fire for forty minutes. Add three or four dozen chestnuts prepared as for the soup in the last recipe, stew all over a slow fire for an hour and a quarter, adding more stock if necessary. Dish with the meat in the centre, and the chestnuts arranged round it. Italian Frittura.—This is made of veal cutlets, calf’s brains, liver, and sweetbreads, all cut into pieces of the same size, with any kind of vegetables cut up. Boil the meat and vegetablesSOME FOREIGN RECIPES 55° separately ; set them to cool, and when cold put them to marinade in oil and vinegar. Make a batter with a quarter of a pound of flour, the yolk of one egg, a teaspoonful of vinegar (or the juice of half a lemon) mixed to batter with salad oil, beat it well, moistening with a little light wine. Beat the white of the egg to a froth and add it to the batter at the last moment. Dry the pieces of meat and vegetables, dip them in the batter, and fry in boiling oil or butter. Codfish Agrodolce.—(Sour Sweet.)—Melt four ounces of butter in a pan and fry in it one dessertspoonful of rosemary, two blanched mushrooms, and two shallots, all finely-minced. Fry for six or eight minutes, then add a pound and a half of codfish, which has been thoroughly boiled in salted water and cut into square pieces. Fry the fish a light brown on one side, turn, and fry the other side. Pour over the fish half a tumbler of red wine vinegar in which two ounces of tomato conserve has been dissolved, and one tumbler of warm water in which four ounces of sugar has been melted. Stew over a very low fire till the liquor is much reduced. Take the pieces of cod carefully out, dish in a heap, and pour the remaining liquid over it. Ravioli.—Make a paste of nine ounces of flour, the yolks of four eggs, and a pinch of salt moistened with a little warm water. It must not be too solid and should rest for two hours, covered with a cloth. Prepare four ounces and a half of cooked chicken forcemeat, using two ounces and a quarter of panada (see page 203), a quarter of a pound of butter, and two yolks of eggs. Season with a little salt, minced herbs, and a little minced mushroom. Roll the paste out as thin as possible, cut it into pieces three inches across, lay forcemeat on each with a teaspoon, double the paste over it like a “ turnover,” and pinch the edges. Carefully arrange the Ravioli side by side in a deep fire-proof dish, sprinkle plenty of grated cheese over them, and gently pour in enough broth to cover them. Set them in the oven for from twenty to thirty minutes, and serve in the same dish. Egg’S alia Contadina.—Melt four ounces of butter in a fire-proof dish, and lay on that six slices of bread very thickly covered with grated cheese. Break one egg carefully on each slice, and season with pepper and salt. Put the dish in a very slow oven, and when the eggs are set serve as they are.551 ITALIAN MUSTARD Italian Mustard.—(This will keep for months.)—Put into a small saucepan one tumbler of white wine, one small onion stuck with six cloves, and a little salt. Simmer over a very low fire for fifteen minutes, strain through a sieve, and stir in by degrees four ounces of mustard. Put it into a small earthen jar, cork it well, and tie vegetable parchment over. Italian Walnuts.—(To keep some weeks.)—Free twelve walnuts from shells and skins, and pound them in a mortar with one ounce of breadcrumbs soaked in vinegar and water, one shallot, one ounce of butter, and the juice of one lemon. Season with salt and pepper. When well pounded together put it through the sieve, and proceed as for Italian Mustard. This is good with any cold meat, especially beef. Gnocchetti.—(This recipe was given to Wyvem by a lady who has lived nearly all her life in Italy.)—Take two tumblers of broth or milk, and put it in a stewpan on the fire with one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and two of pepper. Boil, take off the fire, cool, add four ounces of sifted flour, and mix well, then add two ounces of grated Parmesan. Stir over the fire for one minute, remove the saucepan, breaking into it three large or four small eggs one after the other, and stirring con- tinually. Divide the paste you now have got into small portions, rolling them about the size of walnuts. Put these into a buttered saute-pan, pour boilinr/ milk over them, simmer for five minutes, and drain on a sieve. Now arrange a layer of the Gnocchetti on a dish, sprinkle with Parmesan, add another layer, and sprinkle that. Moisten with a good sauce blanche, cover all with a final layer of Parmesan, set in the oven to colour, and serve very hot. Pana Montata.—(Whipped Cream.)—(North Italian Recipe.) —Put one pint of cream in a copper basin, beat with a wire whisk till it looks like snow, add two ounces of sugar, a teaspoon- ful of powdered cinnamon, and a gill of orange flower water. Go on beating it for fifteen minutes, and then serve in a glass dish. Nastrini di Monache.—(Nuns' Lappets.)—Put six ounces of flour on the pastry board, make a hole in it, and put in two eggs, half a tumbler of Sauterne, and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Work the paste well, let it stand ten minutes, then rollSOME FOREIGN RECIPES 552 it out as thin as possible. Fold it over, and cut it into strips one inch long and two inches wide, fold the two ends one over the other, and fry a golden colour. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the Nastrini. For the sauce: Put into a pan the juice of two large oranges, a tumbler of water, the grated peel of one orange, one ounce of powdered sugar, and an ounce of butter well rolled in flour. Stir over a slow fire for ten or twelve minutes, and just as you take it off stir in the juice of one Seville orange. This sauce is served in Italy, hot or cold, with all kinds of fritters. Polenta.—Have ready a pint of boiling salted water, and drop into it by degrees one pound of ground Indian corn with one hand, whilst with the other you stir the Polenta without stopping till it is a smooth firm paste. Turn it out on a flat dish to cool. When quite cold cut it into pieces half an inch thick and an inch long. Put them in layers on a fire- proof dish, sprinkling each layer thickly with grated cheese, and pouring a little melted butter over each layer. Set the dish in a slow oven till quite hot, and serve as it is, garnished with sausages. Polenta is made like oatmeal porridge, but much more solid. Italians eat it fried in oil, or toasted crisply as a garnish for such dishes as stewed pigeons. If Polenta is to be eaten like porridge allow a pint and half of boiling water to a pound. Mix the Polenta in gradually, stirring all the while. It will take ten minutes to cook. Russian Supper Dish.—Use either cooked chicken or fish minced small, and let it marinade in mayonnaise sauce for a few hours. Whip aspic jelly to a froth, put a layer of it in a souffle dish, then a layer of meat, and so on. Fasten a band of paper round the top of the dish, and whip plenty of aspic so that when set it will rise above the dish. Set it on ice, and take off the paper when ready to serve. If fish is used make the aspic of fish glaze. The aspic must be whisked till it is very frothy. Norwegian Rugrod.—Put three and a half pints of cran- berry juice into an enamelled pan with two pints of water, sugar, and some blanched and chopped almonds. Bring it to the boil> and then stir in a pound of fine sago. Boil for fifteen minutes, stirring all the while. Pour into wetted moulds, and serve cold with milk, or cream handed in a jug.INDEX Allowances PAGE 3 Almonds, salted and devilled . 520 American Grip Broiler . 151 American Enterprise Mincer . 193 Apple Charlotte. . 494 Apple Dumplings . 496 Apple Fritters. . . 466 Apple Meringue . . 495 Apple Pie . . . 459 Apple Water . 442 Baked Apples . 463 Caramelled Apples . 496 Favourite Apples . 463 Arrowroot .... . 440 Aspic Jelly.... . 229 „ „ to use . 230 Bacon - Pickle for .... Boiled Bacon .... Rashers of Bacon, baked,broiled, fried, toasted . . 214, Rolls of Bacon Baking Powder .... Baked Beans and Pork Beans and Bacon Beds, to air Beef— to choose .... weights of joints . Fillet Ribs Sirloin Small fillets of Beef „ ,, aux anchois ,, ,, au raifort . Beef Steaks .... Beef Steak for one person Stewed Beef Steaks with Sorrel Entre-c6te or Porterhouse Steak Vienna Steaks Beef Olives .... Beef Roll .... Beef Tea .... 214 218 215 296 530 224 224 555 163 165 171 171 170 172 243 243 173 174 240 241 174 173 175 431 PAGE . 174 . 176 . 208 . 208 . 207 . 209 . 516 . 425 . 440 . 426 . 427 . 426 Duke of Queensberry’s Liqueur 428 Egg-flip i 427 Fruit Drink .... 429 Ginger Cordial . . . 428 King Cup .... 429 Lemonade .... 425 Long Drink .... 429 Mulled Claret .... 427 Orangeade .... 426 Punch a la Romaine . . 427 Milk Punch .... 427 Rum Punch .... 427 Summer Punch . . . 427 Raspberry Vinegar . . . 428 Sloe Gin 428 Toast and Water . . . 426 Black-beetles, to destroy . . 556 Blanc Manger .... 475 Black Game . . . .283 Boiling .... 143, 448 Boating Meals .... 557 Boots, to clean .... 562 Bordeaux Pigeons . . 233 Stewed with mushrooms . 274 Roasted .... 275 Chaudfroid of 276 Bouilli 34 Bouquet Garni or Bunch of Herbs 384 Braising 145 Brawn 211 Pickle for .... 212 Mock Brawn . . . .213 Beef—continued. Tournedos Beef Rechauffe Pressed Cold Beef . Spiced and Rolled Beef . Spiced Round of Beef Welsh Cold Beef . Beurre au Diable Beverages — Barley-water, clear . „ „ thick Cider Cup Cider Cup, Merton College Claret Cup566 INDEX Bread .... PAGE j . 525 , to make . 52(5 Sir Henry Thompson’s Bread . 529 Bread Chips . . 530 1 Pulled Bread . . 530 Bannocks . 533 j Biscuits .... . 535 I Fluted Biscuits . 536 j Water Biscuits . 535 Passover Biscuits . . 535 Rolls . 530 ( Brown Bolls . . 531 | Castle Howard Bolls . 530 ! French Bolls . . 531 Hot Bolls . 530 Vienna Bolls . . 531 Breakfast Cakes . 531 Wheat Breakfast Cakes . . 531 Broiling and Grilling . . 147 Broiled Bones . 150 Broths— Calf’s Feet Broth . . 433 Calf’s Feet with Milk . 433 Chicken Broth . 436 Eel Broth . 436 Mutton Broth. . 51 Nourishing Broth . . 436 Scotch Mutton Broth . 50 Solid Broth . 435 Strong Broth . . 55 Veal Broth . 436 Bubble and Squeak . . 221 Buns . 537 ! Cabbage Water . 25, 297 Cakes .... . 536 to paper cake tins . 536 to turn out cakes . 537 Cake for luncheon . . 537 Mrs. Earle’s Cakes . . 540 Pound Cake . . 539 Queen Cakes . . 541 Seed Cake . 540 Soda Cake . 541 Sponge Cake . . 540 Water Cakes . . 537 Gingerbread Loaf . . 540 Plum Loaf . 540 Fat Bascals . . 541 Iced Bolls . 541 Petticoat Tails . 541 Sally Lunn’s Teacake . 538 „ ,, ,, smaller . 539 Modern Sally Lunn . 540 PAGE Canapds 509 Calf’s Feet, to prepare . . 190 Calf’s Head en tortue . . 191 Calf’s Tongue .... 190 Caramel . . . , 102 Casseroles 195 Cassolettes 195 Caudle 440 Caviare 519 Celery Seed .... 24 Chapelure 24 Chaudfroids .... 160 Cheese- Grated 24 Stewed 522 Toasted 521 Cup for toasted Cheese . . 521 Toasted Cheese as at Aske Hall . . . .521 Welsh Barebit . . . 521 Cheese Biscuits . . . 522 Cheese Omelette . . . 404 Cheese Bamequins . . . 522 Cheese Straws . . . 457 Cheese Toast .... 522 Cremes de Fromage . . 523 Mock Crab .... 523 Parmesan Pyramids . . 523 Cream Cheese.... 523 Sieved Cream Cheese . . 524 Grewelthorp Cream Cheese . 524 Cheesecakes— Maids of Honour . . .476 Orange Cheesecake. . . 476 Scotch Cheesecakes . . 476 Chicken 252 to choose .... 253 to prepare for cooking. . 256 to truss .... 25S to cook .... 259 a la casserole .... 264 a la Toscane .... 263 a la Turque .... 266 au riz 263 Boiled 261 Boiled with oysters . . 263 Braised 261 Broth 436 Caperata .... 267 Chaudfroid .... 161 Crapes or pancakes . .249 Croquettes .... 194 Curry 420 Devilled 156 Devilled white . . . 265INDEX 567 PAGE PAGE Chicken—contin ued. Creams—continued. Chicken food for invalid. 434 Blanc Manger.... 475 Fricassee . 265 Gooseberry Fool 475 Fried 268 Black Currant Fool 475 Galantine .... 269 Rhubarb Fool 475 Grilled 149 Orange Fool .... 475 Invalid’s chicken . 435 Strawberry Fool 475 Jelly 266 Cream Curds .... 524 Jambalaia .... 266 Devonshire Cream . 524 With macaroni 267 Croquettes 194 Minced with fines herbes 266 „ of game . 250 Mousse of ... 267 Crumbs 24 Pie 234 for coating rissoles, etc. 24 Cold pie 268 for coating fish . 73 Pie for a picnic 219 fried 281 Roast 260 Crumpets 532 Roasted French fashion . 265 Croutes Creuses .... 509 Salad 269' Crofitons 57 Sandwiches .... 386 Curries 419 Spitchcocked and broiled 262 to make .... 420 Spitehcocked Wyvern’s way . 262 Chicken Curry 420 Supreme of ... 264 Curry of cooked meat 423 Tea for invalid 432 Curry of vegetables or eggs 423 Timbale of ... 196 Dry Curry .... 424 Chicken with tarragon . 249 Prawn Curry .... 423 Chocolate 547 Shrimp Curry. 117 Chutneys 25 Cutlets, to divide and trim . 179 Christmas Stew .... 224 Custard 477 Cocoa 546 Boiled Custards 477 Coffee, to make 544 Custard for invalid. 436 Iced Coffee .... 546 Savoury Custard 511 Viennese Coffee 546 Crust Coffee .... 444 Colouring 446 Devilled biscuits 515 Cookery Schools 449 ,, meat . 150 Court Bouillon for fish 102 Diable Bousset roaster for coffee Cordials for Invalids— or chestnuts. 339 Brandy Cordial 443 Drinks for Invalids— Egg Cordial .... 443 Lemon Posset.... 441 Egg beaten up in brandy 433 Treacle Posset. 441 With champagne, or sherry 443 White Wine Whey . 441 Hen’s Milk .... 444 Refreshing’Drinks for Invalids— Port wine Drink 434 Apple Water . 442 Port wine Cordial . 443 Barley Water, clear 425 Sir William Jenner’s Cordial . 443 Crust Coffee . . . . 444 Creams . . . . 473 Iced Drinks . . . . 444 Ambassador’s Cream 473 Lemonade . . . . 425 Burnt Cream .... 473 Nourishing Lemonade . 433 Chocolate Cream . 473 Lemon Drink . . . . 442 Coffee Cream .... 473 Lemon Whey . 443 Flavoured Creams . 474 Orangeade . . . . 426 Orange Cream 473 Orange and Lemon Drink 442 Strawberry Cream . 474 Raspberry Vinegar . 428 „ „ made from Tamarind Whey 442 jam 474 Tartar Drink . . . . 434INDEX 563 PAGE Refreshing Drinks, etc.—-continued. Toast and Water . . . 426 Soothing Drinks for Invalids— Barley Water, thick 440 Barley Water with Honey 442 Leek Milk 346 Linseed Tea . 442 ueks .... 272 Boiled Duck . 272 Duck and Green Peas 273 Stuffing for Duck . 203 Ducklings 273 ggs .... 393 Aurora .... . 396 Boiled .... # 393 Buttered.... . 398 In bread sauce , 396 In cases .... . 397 Croquettes of . . 400 En cocottes , 399 Convent Eggs. . 399 Farcis . 401 Aux fines herbes . 397 Fricassee of . . 395 Fried .... . 394 Au gratin . 400 In Good Woman’s way . . 395 Hard-boiled . . 401 Au miroir . 395 Eggs mollets . . 397 Sur le plat . 395 Poached. . 394 a la Suisse . 396 Savoury Eggs . . 399 In shells.... . 400 To preserve, four recipes. • 561 To beat up in brandy • 433 Egg cordial • 443 Egg flip . . 427 To egg and breadcrumb . 73, 158 ancy Butters . 391 Anchovy.... 392 Black, for fish. 77 Green .... 391 Green, for fish 74 Herring-roe 392 Lobster .... 113 Maitre d’hotel. 391 Ravigote.... 392 Shrimp .... 116 Tomato .... . 392 PAGE Fancy Butters—continued. Watercress 392 Yellow . 392 Fish .... 67 65 to buy to choose 68 to clean 94 to scale 95 to skin 95 to fillet 96 to bake 70 to boil 68 to broil 70 to egg and breadcrumb 158 to fry . 152 154 to poach 69 to roast 71 to steam 69 Anchovies, to drain 96 Anchovy savouiies 516 „ sauce . 138 ,, toast . 510 Bloaters . 81 Bloater toast . 511 Brill.... 72 Fillets of, au bleu . 72 Smoked when fresh 96 Carp. 101 Chub 102 Cod .... 77 Fillets and slices of. 78 Liver and sounds . 78 Salt 78 Codlings toasted 96 Crab— Baked 114 Dressed . 114 Partan Pie 114 Salad 115 Cold souffle of 115 Cockles . 118 to open 119 Stewed . 119 Crayfish . 119 Fricassee of . 120 Eels— to kill . 103 Collared . 104 Filleted . 104 Spitchcocked . 104 Stewed . 105 Eel broth . 433 Eel jelly 104 Flounders 76 Grayling. 100INDEX 569 PAGE PAGE Gudgeon. 100 Sardines—continued. Gurnard. 93 Bouchdes of, cold . 519 Halibut . 77 Devilled .... 512 Haddock- Wyvern’s 520 Stuffed and baked 84 Salmon .... 97 Wyvern’s 84 Broiled .... 70 In a mould 85 Poached .... 99 Dried 85 Ragout .... 98 Finnan Haddock 86 Steaks .... 98 As savoury 512 Steaks, served cold. 99 Baked or toasted 87 Salmon pie. 97 Herrings. 78 Savoury of kippered Salmon 516 Boiled 79 Scallops .... 109 Broiled . 79 as savoury . 517 Fried 79 Sea-Bream 93 Baked in a crust 79 Sea-Trout 100 Dutch Herrings as savoury. 520 Skate .... 76 John Dorey . 83 Shellfish, to cook . 105 Lampreys and Lamperns . 101 Smelts .... 92 Lobster . 111 Stuffed .... 93 Butter . 113 Sole 73 Canapds. 114 a la Colbert 74 Cutlets . 112 au four .... 75 Salad 112 au gratin 76 Sauce 112 Boiled .... 75 Mackerel. 89 Fillets of 74 Served cold 90 i, d’Orly 75 Red Mullet 91 „ with shrimps . 75 En papillotes . 91 Sole for an invalid 434 Grey Mullet . 91 Fried .... 73 Mussels . 110 Sprats .... 82, 344 Oysters . 106 Tench .... 103 Fried 107 Trout .... 100 Plain 107 Boiled .... 100 Roasted . 107 Grilled .... 100 Scalloped 107 Cooked Highland fashion 100 Stewed . 108 Turbot .... 72 Oyster patties 108 Whitebait, to fry . 81 ,, sauce 109 Devilled .... 82 Perch 103 Whiting .... 87 Periwinkles . 119 Fried .... 87 Pike, stuffed and baked . 103 Scored .... 87 Pilchards 82 Soused .... 88 Plaice 76 As in Paris 87 Prawns and Shrimps . 115 Italian fashion 88 Butter 116 Creams of 88 Croustades of . 115 Rechauffes of Fish- Curry of. 117, 423 Fish boulettes. 121 Fritters . 116 Fish cakes 121 Patties . 116 Fish cutlets 121 Salad . 118 Fish custard . 122 Sauce 85 Fish, baked 122 Toasts 117, 512 Fish pudding . 122 Sardines. 83 Fish in shells, hot or cold 123 to prepare . • 96 Kedgeree 120INDEX 57° PAGE Rechauffes of Fish—continued. Salmon rdchauffd . . . 124 Salmon cutlets, hot or cold . 124 Flavouring .... 4 Flies, to destroy . . , 556 Flour, weights of 526 Forcemeat .... 208 Fourniture of a Salad . . 383 Food for Invalids . . . 430 Chicken Food.... 434 Chicken Panada . . . 437 Chicken Steamed . . . 435 Luncheon for invalid . . 441 Macaroni and gravy . . 437 Mutton cutlet .... 435 Raw Beef .... 433 Raw Beef juice . . . 433 Rice Pudding .... 439 Rusk Panada .... 438 Prairie Oyster.... 434 Savoury Custard . . . 436 Sippets 437 Stewed Sago .... 437 Sole 434 Sweetbread .... 436 Yorkshire Pudding. . . 437 Beef Tea, Chicken Tea, Mutton Tea, Veal Tea Barley Milk, Rice Milk Milk . Oatmeal Gruel, Egg Arrowroot .... (See Broths. Also Jellies for Invalids.) Foreign Recipes— German Dampfnudeln . ,, Kalte Schale ,, Nine Loths Pudding . Italian Chestnut Stew „ „ Soup . ,, Codfish Agrodolce „ Eggs alia Contadina . ,, Frittura „ Gnocchetti . „ Nastrini di Monache . „ Polenta „ Pana Montata ,, Ravioli ,, Mustard . . „ Walnuts - . Norwegian Riigrod . Russian Supper Dish Swedish Poor Knights . French Customs Fritters .... 431, 432 Sago 439, 440 Gruel, 441 553 497 553 549 549 550 550 549 551 551 552 551 550 551 551 552 552 553 255 465 F ri tters—con t inued. Apple Fritters. Beignets (simple) . Chocolate Fritters Fruit „ French Roll „ German ,, Lemon ,, Orange „ Plum Pudding „ Fruit, to bottle . Fruit Jellies . Clear Apple Blackberry Currant (two recipes) Medlar .... Mountain Ash or Rowan Pyrus Japonica Quince .... Siberian Crab. Frying Frying Batters . . 157, Furmety .... Furniture Polish Galantine . Game Garden Parties . Garnishes for Soups . Geese to roast Gelatine Gingerbread „ Loaf. „ Nuts Glaze „ fish . Goslings Gourmets and Gourmands Gravy for Game. Greasiness. Grill Sauces „ Seasonings Grouse . Groult’s preparations . Guinea Fowl . Gruel, oatmeal . » egg . Ham • to bake to boil to steam EAOE . 466 . 157 . 467 . 466 . 465 . 467 . 465 . 466 . 467 502, 500 . 501 . 504 . 506 . 505 . 505 . 506 . 504 . 503 . 503 . 152 464, 465 . 496 . 556 . 269 . 277 . 599 . 64 . 253 . 271 78, 463 . 542 . 540 . 542 . 227 . 229 . 272 . 447 . 281 4 . 149 . 149 . 262 . 60 . 271 . 439 . 440 . 169 . 216 . 215 . 216S7i INDEX ,, a la Napoli taine Jellies for Invalids 438 . 412 PAGE PAOE Ham—contin ued. Jellies for Invalids—continued. to pickle . 213, 170 Beef Jelly . 438 Hares • . 277 Bread Jelly . 438 to skin , , 291 Calf’s Foot Jelly . 438 to truss , , 292 Chicken Jelly . . 266 to roast , . 292 Farinaceous Jelly . . 438 stuffing for . , , 202 Restorative Jelly . 438 Hashed Meat . . 193 Rice Jelly . 439 „ Beef . . 193 Tapioca Jelly : . 439 ,, Hare . . 293 Jugging .... . 146 „ Mutton . . , 193 Jugged Hare . 293 „ Venison . , , 286 Haste in Cooking . . 1 Herbs . . 382 Kalte Schale . . 32 to dry , . 382 Kedgeree .... . 120 to weigh . 384 Kidneys .... . 181 Herb Seasoning or Spiced Pepper 382 a la brochette . . 181 Herb Seasoning for Soup . . 24 devilled .... . 181 Herb Salt or Spiced Salt . . 383 grilled .... . 181 Herb Vinegars . # , 383 saute .... . 181 Hors d'ffiuvres , . 508 stewed .... . 181 toasted .... . 181 Kidney Dumpling . 220 Ices .... 498 Kidney Toast . 513 Infant’s food 444 Kitchen Requisites . 15 Infant’s second food . 445 ,, ,, to clean. . 20 Irish Fadge or scone . 534 Kitchen Store-cupboard . 23 Irish Stew . 221 Kromeskis .... . 195 „ Wyvern’s . 221 „ „ or Brady . 222 »» »» • • 222 Lard ..... . 153 Isinglass 78 Larder .... . 18 Larding .... . 159 Lax . 517 Jajibalaia . , , 266 Lamb .... . 167 Jams # , 499 Lamb Cutlets . . 182 to make , , 499 „ „ cold . . 183 of whole fruit . , 501 „ „ en papillotes . 183 Jellies , . 468 Leg of Lamb a la Bercy . . 248 to make . . 468 Lamb Sweetbreads . . 184 to clear . , 469 Lancashire Clapped Bread . 534 to turn out . , , 470 „ Hot Pot . . 218 flavouring for , . 470 Lemonade .... . 425 Apple and Pineapple Jelly 473 Leveret .... . 293 Claret Jelly 472 Liver and Bacon . 225 Lemon Jelly . . , 472 k Maraschino Jelly with fruit . 471 • Orange Jelly, clear . , , 468 Macaroni . 410 Orange Jelly, thick . . , 471 „ to boil . 411 Prune Jelly , , 472 Macaroni cooked in stock . 411 Strawberry Jelly . . 472 Macaroni au gratin . 412 Meat Jellies— „ English Aspic Jelly . , 229 fashion . 413 Savoury Jelly . # , 175 Macaroni a l’ltalienne . . 412 •572 INDEX PAGE Macaroni—continued. „ alia Napolitana . 412 ,, a la Sicilienne . . 413 Spaghetti with mushrooms . 413 Macedoine of fruit . . . 497 „ of vegetables . . 371 „ of tinned vegetables . 373 Marinade 151 for hare . . . .291 for venison . . . 279 for hashed venison . . 286 Marmalade .... 501 Orange Marmalade. . . 502 Clear Orange .... 503 Quince 503 Siberian Crab.... 503 Marrow Bones .... 226 „ Patties .... 173 „ Toasts .... 512 Maids of Honour . . .477 Masking 160 Minces 193 „ for invalids . . . 194 Mincepies 493 Moulds 17 ,, to clean .... 20 „ to butter.... 491 ,, to paper. . . .491 Muffins 532 Mustard 351 „ Italian .... 551 , HOE Mutton—continued. Shoulder of Mutton 178 Mutton Pie 239 Mutton Pie with mushrooms . 244 Names of Dishes 450 Normandy Pippins Nun’s Lappets . 463 551 Oak, to clean .... 556 Oatcake 555 ,, Westmoreland 554 Oatmeal Porridge 547 Oil 152 Omelettes— to make .... 402 second method 405 au naturel .... 404 aux herbes .... 404 aux fines herbes 404 au persil 404 Cheese Omelette 404 additions to Omelettes 406 Sweet Omelettes . 408 Omelette au confiture 408 Omelette sucree 408 flavourings for Omelettes 409 Out-of-door meals 557 Oven, to test .... 13 Ox-tail stewed .... 175 Mutton weights of joints. Mutton Chops Mutton Chop for one person . Mutton Cutlets a la Catalane a la Dubois a la Maintenon . a la Nelson .... a la Pieforme a la Vinaigrette . for an invalid Haricot of Mutton . „ Monsieur Duplere’s . Hashed Mutton Leg of Mutton „ „ a la Bretonne. Loin of Mutton Neck of Mutton . . 178, Noisettes of Mutton Ragofit of Mutton . Saddle of Mutton . 165 166 179 179 179 247 247 180 245 180 245 435 182 244 178 177 242 177 179 248 243 176 Panada for Forcemeat Panada for Invalids . Pancakes batter for . Chocolate Pancakes French Pancakes . Partridges au chou Pastry .... to make Pie Crust Flaky Pie Crust Pie Crust for Pork Pies . „ „ for Raised Pies Puff Paste Short Crust for Tarts Pastry for Cheese Straws Pastry for Saucers or cases Pastry for crofitons. Pease Pudding . Pig-tub .... 203 437 464 464 464 464 282 282 452 453 456 456 239 238 453 457 457 516 361 226 6INDEX 573 PAGE PAGE Pies .... 232 Puddings—continued. to make , , 233 Boiled Puddings 479 Beef-steak Pie. , , 233 Steamed 480 Beef Pie with potato crust 222 Fruit Puddings 480 Chicken Pie . . . 234 Bakewell Pudding . 481 Cold Chicken Pie . , . 268 Batter Pudding for one person 483 Egg and Bacon Pie , . 235 Baked Batter Pudding . 484 French Pie , , 235 Wentworth House Batter Pud- Game or Raised Pie , , 236 ding .... 483 Mutton Pie , , 238 Biscuit Pudding- 481 Mutton Pie with mushrooms . 244 Bread Pudding 482 Pie for a Picnic , , 219 Brown Bread Pudding . 483 Pigeon Pie . . 234 Bread and Butter Pudding 484 Pork Pie. . . 238 Caramel Pudding . 488 Potato or Pedro Pie. . . 223 Cabinet Pudding 482 Rabbit Pie , . 235 Custard Pudding, tapioca 488 Venison Pasty. , , 237 Apple Custard Pudding . 489 Pigeons . 253 Coffee Custard Pudding . 489 Au chou . . . 283 Favourite Pudding . 490 Broiled . . . 274 Ginger Pudding 491 Fillets of. . , 274 Hasty Pudding 490 Roast . . 274 Imperial Pudding . 486 Stewed . , . 274 L’Ami des Enfants. 481 Pigeon Pie . • . 234 Lemon Pudding 481 (See Bordeaux Pigeons.) Lemon Pudding, plain . 481 Pheasant. . . 277 Lady Raglan’s Pudding . 487 Roast , , 283 Marmalade Pudding 490 Boiled with celery . , . 283 Mousseline Pudding 490 Plover . 276 Muffin Pudding . . 483 Plover’s Eggs . 254, 394 Plain Pudding. 483 Pork.... . 168 Plum Pudding (three recipes) . 485 Weights of joints . • 169 Poet Rogers’ Pudding. . 486 Pork Cutlets . . . 192 Peasant’s Pudding . 482 Pork Cutlets with apple sauce. 192 Primrose Puddings . 486 Pork Pie. , . 238 Prussian Puddings . 483 Polenta . , 552 Rice Pudding for invalid 439 Potted Meat or Fish . , . 201 Milky Rice Pudding 484 Pot-Pourri (five recipes) . . 559 Steamed „ 484 Prairie Oyster . . 434 Ground-Rice Pudding 480 Poultry Oyster . . 257 Royal Blue Pudding 486 Poultry . • 252 Suet Pudding .... 226 to choose . . 253 „ ,, without Suet to prepare . • • 256 (two recipes) 481 to truss . . 258 Swiss Pudding 482 to cook . 259 Sir Watkin Wynn’s Pudding Poussins . . 252 (two recipes) 487 Preserves- Tapioca Pudding , 484 Brandy Cherries . 505 Victoria Pudding . 487 Bullace Cheese . . 504 Currant Rob . . . 505 Meat Pudding's 239 Damson Cheese . 504 Beef-steak Pudding. 240 Prunes in Cherry Brandy 506 Mutton ,, 240 Puddings— Partridge „ . . . 240 Rules for making . • , 477 j Punch 427 Baked Puddings • t 478 1 Putz’s Paste for brass 556INDEX 574 Quail PAGE 254 to roast . . 276 Quenelles— to make , , 197 Quenelles of Chicken with mush- rooms , , 197 ,, of game, fish, or cheese 199 „ for soup . . 200 Quince jelly 505 „ marmalade * 505 Rabbits . 278 to prepare . . 290 to cook . 293 Babbit, broiled . , 294 Rabbit with mushroom sauce . 294 Rabbit and Onions . 220 Gibelotte, or Ragout of Rabbit 295 Noisettes of Rabbit with celery 295 Rabbit Pie . 235 Raspings . 24 Ravioli , . 550 Rechauffes of Fish , 120 Rice— to boil . 415 Indian fashion . , 414 Negro fashion . 414 Rice a l’ltalienne . . . 416 Rice k la Menagere . . 416 Rice a, la Turque . 416 Rice alia Principessa . 416 Risotto a la Milanaise 415 Rice Pie . 417 Turkish Pilau. . 417 Rice with Fish . 418 Rissoles . 195 Roasting * 141 Roebuck . . 278 to cook . 287 Rolls .... . • 530 Rusks • 537 Salmis of Game. 284 Salmis of Cooked Game . 285 Salads . 373 To make . 375 Dressing for 374, 376, 377 Oil for. . 375 Bowl for . 381 Chicken Salad . . 268 Crab ,, . 115 Corn Salad and Mustard and Cress .... 380 PAGE Salads—continued. Cucumber and Tomato Salad . 380 Mrs. Earle’s Salad . . . 380 Haricot Bean „ 380 Lettuce Salad .... 375 Lobster 112 Madame’s Salad . . . 376 Mixed „ ... 377 Old-fashioned beetroot and celery Salad . . . 378 Orange Salad .... 377 Potato „ . . . . 376 dressing for Potato Salad . 376 Prawn Salad .... 117 Salade Cuite .... 378 „ „ SirH. Thompson’s 378 Salmon Salad. . . . 381 Sea Kale Salad a la Belle Alliance .... 379 Sir Erskine May’s Salad. . 376 Sir H. Thompson’s „ . . 378 Sydney Smith’s „ . . 374 Tomato Salad . . . 377 ,, ,, American fashion 377 Salletine 381 Salted Meat, to cure . . 205 Bacon 214 Beef 207 Brawn 211 Ham 213 Pig’s Cheeks .... 214 Savoury Stew .... 223 Savoury Jelly . . . ' . 175 Sandwiches . . • .385 Special butter for . . . 385 Fancy butters for . . . 392 Alexandra Sandwiches . . 387 Beef „ . . 386 Barrington ,, . . 390 Cucumber ,, . 390 Cheshire ,, . 386 Chicken ,, . .386 Curried Cheese ,, . 390 Egg „ . . 3S8 Gladstone ,, . . 386 Green rolled „ . . 389 Gruyere ,, . 388 Ham ,, . 386 Hot „ . • 390 Milan ,, . . 386 Nelson „ . . 387 Princess „ . 387 Prince George „ . 386 Rolled „ . .389 Salad • „ . . 3S8INDEX 575 PAGE Sandwiches—continued. Salmon Sandwiches . . 3SS Shrimp „ . 388 Sportsman „ . 386 Tit-bit „ . .388 Tomato ,, . 389 Tomato and Sardine Sandwiches 389 Traveller’s Rolls . . .389 Victoria Sandwiches . . 387 Sweet ,, . . 390 Sauter, to 157 Sauces 126 materials for . . . 127 Almond 275 Anchovy 138 Apple, for pork . . . 192 d’ Argenteuil.for cold vegetables 358 Sauce Bearnaise . . . 133 „ Bechamel . . . 135 „ Blanche . . . 128 „ Blonde .... 130 Beurre fondu, or Dutch, for fish 73 Beurre fondu, or Dutch, for vegetables . . . 139 Black butter, for fish . . 77 Bigarade ^auce, for wild fowl 288 Bread „ ... 260 Caper 178 Celery 283 Sauce for devilled Chicken . 150 Cucumber .... 183 Egg, for fish .... 79 Espagnole .... 134 a 1’ Estragon, or tarragon . 129 Fennel, for fish ... 90 Fish Sauce, with chervil. 75, 130 Green butter, for fish . . 74 Gooseberry .... 272 Gubbins’ Grill . . . 149 Wyvern’s Grill Sauce . . 133 Horseradish or raifort, hot . 133 „ „ cold . 134 Hollandaise .... 133 Liver Sauce for hare . . 292 Lobster 112 Maitre d’hStel . . . 130 Mayonnaise .... 136 „ collee . . .137 Melted butter .... 128 Milanaise .... 131 Mint 183 Mushroom .... 294 Mustard, for fish ... 80 Onion 220 PAGE Sauces—continued. Orange 138 Oyster 109 Parsley and butter . . . 261 Pauvre homme . . . 133 Piquante .... 132 Poulette 130 Ravigote 137 Robert 131 Raifort 133 Sorrel 360 Shrimp .... 85, 117 Soubise 130 Soubise tomate . . . 245 Stock sauce for store-cupboard 24 Tartare 137 Sauce a la tortue . . . 191 Tomato ..... 363 Sauces for wild-fowl . 288, 289 Veloute 135 d’Uxelles .... 139 Sweet Sauces— Apricot .... 489, 490 Apple and Apricot . . . 484 Italian ..... 552 Jam ..... 140 Liqueur 487 Mousseline .... 139 Oronoco, or brandy butter . 485 Wine 139 Clear Wine ..... 487 Sausages • . . .217 to cook .... 217 Oxford Sausages . . . 217 Savouries (hot)— Anchovy Biscuits . . . 516 Anchovies, fried . . . 516 Anchovy Tartelettes . . 517 Beurre au Diable . . . 516 Devilled Biscuits . . . 515 Plain With ham With herring roes With mushrooms With kippered salmon Savoury purees for fried croutes Shrimp or Scallop Savoury . Tartelettes a la Norvegienne . Savouries (cold)— Bouchces of Chicken ,, a la Dauphine ,, of Ham ,, of Sardines Caviare Cremes aux Champignons 517 517 517 519 517 519INDEX 576 Savouries (cold)—continued. Dutch Herrings Olives ..... Salted and devilled Almonds . Tomato Saucers Wyvern’s Sardines . Savoury Toasts . custard for . Anchovy Toast Bloater „ Finnan Haddock Toast . Fish Toasts .... Game „ .... Ham Toast .... Kidney „ ... Meat Toasts .... Marrow Toast.... Sardine . Shrimp „ . . . 117, Simple Toasts Vegetable Woodcock Toast Scones Cream Scones Crisp Scones Scotch Scones Water Scones Scullery Scotch Pineapple Sieves Sink Shepherd’s Pie .... Snipe Smoke, Essence of Snow Cheese .... Singing Hinnie (Cumberland Girdle Cake) Socle, or foundation, to make . Soups general Directions for . to clarify .... colouring for to make Stock White Stock .... Vegetable Stock Second Stock .... Clear Soup .... Consomme .... Consomme of fowl or game . Garnishes for Clear Soups, Julienne, Brunoise, Custard, Macaroni, Quenelles, Boules de Neige .... Soups—continued. PAGE Clear Soup 32 ,, Soup with poached eggs. 39 „ Game Soup . 38 „ Giblet Soup . 49 „ Hare Soup . 39 „ Lettuce Soup. 39 „ Mock Turtle Soup . 46 „ Ox-tail Soup . 36 ,, Vegetable Soup 39 Croutes-au-Pot 37 Mulligatawny Soup. 39 Clear Soup served cold . 43 Thickened Soups . 43 roux for 44 bread in 44 Bonne-Femme Soup 41 Beast’s Head Soup . 52 Cock-a-Leekie. 53 Country Doctor’s Soup . 48 Friar’s Chicken 49 Giblet Soup, thick . 50 Hare Soup 48 „ from cooked hare 48 Haricot Bean Soups 54 Hotch-Potch . 52 Invalid’s Soup 36 Kidney Soup . 50 Lentil Soup . 55 Leek Soup 53 Mutton Broth. 52 Scotch Mutton Broth 51 Mock Turtle Soup, thick. 46 Turtle Soup from Dried Turtle 43 Ox-tail Soup, thick. 37 Onion Soup . 53 Pea Soup from dried Peas 54 Thick Soup from Sirloin Bone 51 Sir W. Farrington’s Soup 48 Soup for a Soup Kitchen 55 Soup for the Poor . 55 Soup a la Beine 42 Strong Broth . 56 Tongue-Boot Soup . 55 White Soup . 47 „ Dean of York’s 47 Vegetable Soup 43 Purees .... 56 to make 57 of game or poultry 57 croutons for 57 Carrot and Tapioca, or Velvet Soup .... 59 Celery Pur£e . 60 Creme d’Orge. . . 59 I’AGE 520 518 520 520 520 510 511 510 511 512 513 514 513 513 513 512 512 512 512 514 511 533 22 495 21 22 219 284 206 495 534 198 29 29 33 35 31 35 35 45 31 34 34 64INDEX 577 PAGE PAGE Purges—continued. Teal .... . 289 Green Pea Puree , , 58 Toast, Sir Henry Thompson’s . 530 Jerusalem Artichoke Purde, or Buttered Toast . 531 Palestine Soup . . . 59 Savoury Toasts . 510 Potage Paysanne . . 60 Toad in a Hole . . 219 Tapioca Puree. . 60 Toffee . . 508 Vegetable Puree 57, 35 Tongues . . 210 Fish Soups— Calf’s Tongue. . 190 Captain Marryat’s . . • 61 Tea .... . . 543 Cockle Soup . . . 63 Cold Tea . . 544 Dutch Baars, or Water Souchy 61 Timbales . . 196 Lady Bruce’s Fish Soup . . 64 Tins, to clean . 21 Mussel Soup . . « 63 Cake Tins, to paper . 536 Oyster Soup . • 63 Trifle .... . 494 Shrimp Puree. . 62 Tripe .... . . 225 Sir H. Thompson’s Fish Soup. 60 Turkey . . 268 Soufflds , , 491 Roast . 269 Chicken . 492 Boiled . 269 Crab , , 115 Pulled and grilled . . 269 Fish , , 492 Turnovers . . 496 Vanilla . , , 492 Omelette Soufilee au Frontage. 493 Orange-flower Omelette Soufflee 492 Veal . 167 Steaming . 146 Weights of joints . . 168 Stock-pot . 29 Blanquette of Veal . . 187 Stufling 201 Simple Blanquette . . 188 Stuffing for fish . 84, 105, 203 Veal Cutlets . . 189 Strawberry Salad 498 ,, Collops . . 186 Strawberry Shortcake. 498 ,, ,, brown Stewed Pears 463 „ „ Italian Sue colorant . , . 35 Fillet of Veal . . 186 Suet, to clarify . 156 Fricandeau . 188 Suet, to mince . 226 Fricatelles . 187 Suet Dumplings. 227 Loin of Veal . . 186 Suet Pudding 226 Sweetbreads . . 184 Sweetbreads 184 Tendons of Veal . 184 Syllabub 559 (See Calf’s Feet, Calf’s Head, Syrup for compotes . 461 Calf’s Tongue.) Tamis-cloth 17, 22 Tarts and Compotes . . 459 Venison . . 278 Apple pie . • 459 to keep . 279 Compotes . . , 460 to cook . 285 Cherries . . . 462 use in stock-pot . . 279 Chestnuts , . 462 Haunch . . 286 Currants. . . 462 „ to carve . . 287 Black Currants , , 462 Neck . . , . 286 Dried American Apples , , 461 Hashed Venison . 286 Green Apricots . , 461 Venison Steaks . 287 Green Gooseberries. . . 461 Venison Pasty . 237 Melon • . 461 Vol au Vent . 455 Orange . • 460 Vegetables— Pineapple . 460 Rules for cooking Vegetables . 297 Prunes . . 462 Butter with Vegetables . 300 Rhubarb. * 461 Cold Vegetables . 301578 INDEX PAGE Artichokes (Globe) • . 315 „ to prepare „ boiled „ beignets of „ chips of ,, cream of Artichoke Bottoms, boiled „ „ served cold „ „ a la Barigoule ,, ,, in shells „ „ puree of Artichokes (Jerusalem) . 317 ,, boiled ,, chips of „ cream of „ fried, and fritters of ,, au gratin ,, patties ,, roasted ,, in shells Artichokes (Japanese) . 319 „ boiled ,, served cold Asparagus . . . .319 „ to boil „ in Sir H. Thomp- son’s way „ au Chateau-roux ,, alia Lombarda ,, served cold Aubergines, or Egg-plant 321 ,, beignets of ,, au gratin „ a la Provengale ,, stuffed Broad Beans . . . .322 ,, to cook ,, boiled ,, a la bourgeoise „ with custard sauce ,, puree of Beans and Bacon . . . 224 French Beans • • .323 ,, to cook „ with butter „ a la maitre d’hotel ,, panaches ,, to preserve „ sautd „ • stewed. Flageolets . . . .324 fresh „ preserved . 326, 372 Haricot Beans . • .325 „ fresh Haricot Beans—continued.. „ dried, to cook „ with butter „ with cheese „ with French beans „ Basque fashion „ a la maitre d’hotel „ Wyvern’s way „ pur4e of Beetroot „ to cook ,, stewed Broccoli Brussels Sprouts , „ boiled „ fried „ pur4e of „ saut4 „ with but- tered eggs Cabbage „ to boil „ to steam „ a la creme „ ladies’ „ red „ pickled Cabbage Water . Cauliflower - „ to cook „ baked ,, fried „ au gratin ,, Mrs. Earle’s ,, steamed Coleannon Cardoons. to prepare au blanc as beignets with marrow stewed Carrots . „ to boil „ as beignets „ a la Flamande ,, Mrs. Earle’s „ puree of „ stewed Capsicums Celery „ to cook ,, au blanc „ braised fried PAGE 326 328 331 330 329 23. 297 . 332 329 334 333 338 336INDEX 579 PAGE PAGE C elery—co ntinued. Mustard—continued. „ Mrs. Earle’s » „ to make „ stewed „ Italian fashion . 551 Celeriae 337 Olives . 351 „ stewed „ farcies Chestnuts • 338 „ to turn „ to roast „ as a savoury . . • 518 „ pur4e of Onions • • 352 „ stewed ,, baked „ as a sweet dish. 462 ,, fried t Chicory 341 „ roasted „ puree of „ to slice „ with coffee . 544 „ buttons, glazed Cucumbers . . . . 340 „ Portugal, stewed „ fillets of as garnish „ puree or soubise . 130 „ Mrs. Earle’s Onion Threads . . , 353 „ a la poulette Parsley— „ sliced „ to fry . • , 383 ,, stuffed „ to mince , , 299 „ with lamb 183 Parsnips . . « 354 Dandelions . . . . 342 Peas .... . 354 „ as eaten in France „ to boil Endive 342 „ dried Piselli Verdi , . 328 Garlic 343 ,, in the jar „ Mrs. Earle’s way of using „ Mrs. Earle’s „ Mrs. Opie’s tale of „ a la Frangaise Herbs 382 „ with lettuce to dry ,, a la paysanne to weigh „ puree of Herb Salt ,, stewed „ Pepper „ with stewed lettuces „ Seasonings Potatoes . . . 302 ,, Vinegar to bake , , 303 Bunch of Herbs or Bouquet garni to boil . , 302 Horseradish .... 345 to broil . , 304 Kohl-rabi .... 367 to mash 304 Laver 346 to mash French fashion 304 Leeks 346 to steam # # 303 Lentils 328 American Potato Puff , # 305 Lettuces 347 Cream Potatoes for second „ farcies course . 305 „ stewed Curried Potatoes . 311 Mushrooms . . . . 347 Favourite „ 312 „ baked Fried „ , . 307 Mustard cooked under glass creams of au gratin grilled ketchup fresh ketchup puree buttons to preserve stewed in broth with butter 351 ,, Potato Chips . . . 308 ,, „ Ribbons . . 308 French Potatoes . . . 313 German Potato Puffers . . 311 Irish Potato Cakes . . . 305 New Potatoes 303 Olive Potatoes . . . 314 Puffed „ ... 314 Scotch Potato Fritters . . 306 Savoury Potatoes . . . 305 „ „ aux herbes . 312580 INDEX Potatoes—continued. Stewed Potatoos Potato Balls baked. ,, „ fried . ,, „ aux herbes . ,, Croquettes : ,, Drops * „ Marbles ,, Pancakes with Cheese ,, Quenelles Potato Boilers „ Scallops „ Souffles ,, Snow . ,, Tartlets Potatoes a la Americaine broiled a la Make browned under meat a la Duchesse . a la G. C.. a la Lyonnaise . a la Marechale . maitre d’hotel . sautes Salsify .... Seorzonera . . . ,, baked „ fried „ puree of Seakale .... „ boiled „ boiled in milk ,, served cold Shallots .... Sorrel .... ,, puree of „ „ with beefsteak Spinach .... ,, to cook ,, biscuits for „ border of ,, colouring Spinach and eggs ,, patties „ stewed „ souffles toasts Sprue PAGE 30G 307 313 306 313 312 309 312 307 309 313 311 306 313 311 312 314 309 309 310 309 310 310 357 358 359 360 359 241 360 Tomatoes to prepare baked boiled broiled American fashion boutons rouges . 320 . 362 299, 362 Tomatoes—continued „ served cold ,, conserve of „ green „ grilled ,, as jam , . „ pur6e of „ roasted Tomato saucers Turnips . „ a la Marechale ,, as eaten in Piedmont ,, boiled „ boiled with white sauce „ with chestnuts ,, glazed „ mashed „ pur4e of Turnip Tops .... „ stalks Truffles and Morels . Vegetable Marrow baked with cheese fried fillets of French fashion mashed stuffed Watercress .... ,, puree of „ stewed Pickled Vegetables Macedoines of Vegetables Tinned Vegetables Vegetable Toasts Waitees Walnut Ketchup. Walnuts, Italian fashion V/aste Wax for sealing bottles Weights and measures ,, „ „ French Widgeon . Wild Fowl . Wild Duck . „ to cook . „ stuffed with celery Wine in Cookery Woodcock Yeast .... German Yeast. Yeast Dumplings Yorkshire Pudding „ „ for invalid Yorkshire Girdle Cake LIBRARY PAGE 501 520 365 367 368 369 370 371 371 372 514 10 25 551 2 500 27 562 2SS 279 2SS 2S9 2S0 25 2S4 525 525 227 171 437 533